ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS INTRODUCTION Our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is organized as follows: Overview: Includes a discussion of our business structure; current economic and industry wide trends relevant to our business; our current business strategy; and our primary sources of operating and non operating revenues and expenditures. Critical Accounting Policies: Provides an explanation of accounting policies which may have a significant impact on our financial results and the estimates, assumptions and risks associated with those policies. Recent Accounting Pronouncements: Includes an evaluation of recent accounting pronouncements and the potential impact of their future adoption on our financial results. Results of Operations: Includes a discussion of our 2009, 2008 and 2007 financial results and any known events or trends which are likely to impact future results. Liquidity and Capital Resources: Includes a discussion of our future cash requirements, capital resources, significant planned expenditures and financing arrangements. On July 12, 2007, CBOT Holdings, Inc. (CBOT Holdings) merged with and into Chicago Mercantile Exchange Holdings Inc. (CME Holdings). At the time of this merger, the combined company was renamed CME Group Inc. (CME Group). On March 23, 2008, CME Group acquired Credit Market Analysis Ltd., a private company incorporated in the United Kingdom, and its wholly owned subsidiaries (collectively, CMA). On August 22, 2008, NYMEX Holdings, Inc. (NYMEX Holdings) merged with CME Group. The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations includes the financial results of the former CBOT Holdings beginning July 13, 2007, the financial results of CMA beginning March 24, 2008, and the financial results of the former NYMEX Holdings beginning August 23, 2008. References in this discussion and analysis to we and our are to CME Group and its consolidated subsidiaries, collectively. References to exchange are to Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. (CME), Board of Trade of the City of Chicago, Inc. (CBOT) and New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc. (NYMEX), collectively. OVERVIEW Business Structure CME Group, a Delaware stock corporation, is the holding company for CME, CBOT, NYMEX and their respective subsidiaries. The holding company structure is designed to provide strategic and operational flexibility. CME Groups Class A common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (NASDAQ) under the ticker symbol CME. Our exchange consists of designated contract markets for the trading of futures and options on futures contracts. Futures contracts and options on futures contracts provide investors with vehicles for protecting against, and potentially profiting from, price changes in financial instruments and physical commodities. We are a global exchange with customer access available virtually all over the world. Our customers consist of professional traders, financial institutions, individual and institutional investors, major corporations, manufacturers, producers and governments. Customers include both members of the exchange and non members. We offer our customers the opportunity to trade futures contracts and options on futures contracts on a range of products including those based on interest rates, equities, foreign exchange, commodities, energy, and metals. 55 Our products provide a means for hedging, speculating and allocating assets. We identify new products by monitoring economic trends and their impact on the risk management and speculative needs of our existing and prospective customers. Our major product lines are traded through our electronic trading platforms and our open outcry trading floors. These execution facilities offer our customers immediate trade execution and price transparency. In addition, trades can be executed through privately negotiated transactions that are cleared and settled through our clearing house. Our clearing house clears, settles and guarantees every futures and options contract traded through our exchange, in addition to over the counter products cleared through CME ClearPort. Our clearing house performance guarantee is an important function of our business. Because of this guarantee, our customers do not need to evaluate the credit of each potential counterparty or limit themselves to a selected set of counterparties. This flexibility increases the potential liquidity available for each trade. Additionally, the substitution of our clearing house as the counterparty to every transaction allows our customers to establish a position with one party and then to offset the position with another party. This contract offsetting process provides our customers with flexibility in establishing and adjusting positions and provides for performance bond efficiencies. To ensure performance of counterparties, we establish and monitor financial requirements for our clearing firms and mark to market their positions typically twice a day. We also set minimum performance bond requirements for our traded products, over the counter products and cleared credit default swaps. In the unlikely event of a payment default by a clearing firm, we would first apply assets of that clearing firm to cover its payment obligation. These assets include security deposits, performance bonds and any other available assets, such as the proceeds from the sale of pledged Class A and Class B common stock and associated trading rights of the clearing firm at our exchange that are owned by or assigned to the clearing firm. In addition, we would make a demand for payment pursuant to any applicable guarantee provided to the exchange by the parent company of a clearing firm. Thereafter, if the payment default remains unsatisfied, we would use, in order, CMEs surplus funds, security deposits of other clearing firms and funds collected through an assessment against all other solvent clearing firms to satisfy the deficit. Industry Trends Economic Environment. Our markets provide an effective and transparent means for our customers to manage risk despite the economic downturn. We have experienced a decline in trading activity in the markets in which we participate due to ongoing instability in the financial markets, a decrease in the availability of credit and a decline in assets under management. Our goal is to continue to maintain quality products and services in support of our customers while they operate within the current economic environment. Competitive Environment. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and we expect competition to continue to intensify. We encounter competition in all aspects of our business, including from entities having substantially greater capital and resources and offering a wider range of products and services and some operating under a different and possibly less stringent regulatory regime. We now face competition from other futures, securities and securities option exchanges; over the counter markets; clearing organizations; consortia formed by our members and large market participants; alternative trade execution facilities; technology firms, including market data distributors and electronic trading system developers; and others. Regulatory Environment. Our operations as a futures exchange have historically been subject to extensive regulation. In light of widespread difficulties across the economy, particularly acute in the latter half of 2008 and early 2009, there have been many calls for a restructuring of the regulation of financial markets. As a result, various legislative proposals are currently circulating in Congress outlining regulatory reform in the futures and over the counter derivatives markets. We cannot predict what the final regulations will be or what impact they may have on our business. To the extent the regulatory environment is less beneficial for us or our customers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively affected. 56 Business Strategy Our strategy is directed towards leveraging our benchmark products, clearing and trading technologies, the benefits derived from our integrated clearing house as well as our scalable infrastructure. We strive to capitalize on opportunities created by increased market awareness and acceptance of derivatives, increased price volatility, technological advances and the increasing need for counterparty risk mitigation and clearing services. This strategy allows us to continue to develop into a more broadly diversified financial exchange that provides trading and clearing solutions across a wide range of products and asset classes. We believe that we can build on our competitive strengths by implementing the following strategies: Grow our core business through diversification of our customer base and extension of our current product lines; Globalize our business by targeting international customers through strategic investments and by leveraging our diverse product offerings; and Serve the over the counter markets through the continued development of products and services and by exploring opportunities for acquisitions, alliances and commercial agreements. Primary Sources of Revenue Clearing and transaction fees. A majority of our revenue is derived from clearing and transaction fees, which include electronic trading fees, surcharges for privately negotiated transactions and other volume related charges for contracts executed through our trading venues. Because clearing and transaction fees are assessed on a per contract basis, revenues and profitability fluctuate with changes in trading volume. In addition to the industry trends noted earlier, our revenues and trading volume tend to increase during periods of economic and geopolitical uncertainty. This is because our customers seek to manage their exposure to, or speculate on, the market volatility resulting from uncertainty. However, in 2008 and 2009, we believe the extreme volatility and the decoupling of related markets have reduced customers ability to assume and maintain positions, which has resulted in a decrease in volume. In addition, our volume can be seasonal, and historically, we have experienced higher sequential volume during the first and second quarters followed by decreases in the third and fourth quarters of the calendar year. However, these patterns may be altered by the impact of economic and political events, the launch of new products, mergers and acquisitions as well as other factors. While volume has the most significant impact on our clearing and transaction fees revenue, there are four other factors that also influence the source of revenues: rate structure; product mix; trading venue; and the percentage of trades executed by customers who are members compared with non member customers. Rate structure. Customers benefit from volume discounts and limits on fees as part of our effort to increase liquidity in certain products. We may periodically change fees, volume discounts, limits on fees and member discounts, perhaps significantly, based on our review of operations and the business environment. As a result of their rate structure, Total Return Asset Contracts (TRAKRS), Swapstream products, Hurricane Risk Landfall Option (HuRLO) contracts and auction traded products are excluded from disclosures of trading volume and average rate per contract in this discussion and analysis. Clearing and transaction fees on these products are immaterial relative to our other products. TRAKRS are exchange traded non traditional futures contracts that trade electronically on the CME Globex electronic platform. Auction traded products, which included CME economic derivatives, were previously traded through July 2007. Swapstream products were previously traded through September 2008. 57 Product mix. We offer trading of futures and options on futures contracts on a wide ranging set of products based on interest rates, equities, foreign exchange, commodities, energy and metals. Rates are varied by product in order to optimize revenue on existing products and support introduction of new products to encourage trading volume. Trading venue. Our exchange is an international marketplace that brings together buyers and sellers mainly through our electronic trading platforms as well as through open outcry trading on our trading floors and privately negotiated transactions. Any customer guaranteed by a clearing firm and who agrees to be bound by our exchange rules is able to obtain direct access to our electronic platforms. Open outcry trading is conducted exclusively by our members, who may execute trades on behalf of customers or for themselves. Typically, customers executing trades through our electronic platforms are charged fees for using the platform in addition to the fees assessed on all transactions executed on our exchange. Customers entering into privately negotiated transactions also incur additional charges beyond the fees assessed on all transactions. Member/non member mix. Generally, member customers are charged lower fees than our non member customers. Holding all other factors constant, revenue decreases if the percentage of trades executed by members increases, and increases if the percentage of non member trades increases. Quotation data fees. We receive revenue from the dissemination of our market data to subscribers. Our market data services are provided primarily through third party distributors. Subscribers can obtain access to real time, delayed and end of day quotation, trade and summary market data for our products. Users of our basic service receive real time quotes and pay a flat monthly fee for each screen, or device, displaying our market data. Alternatively, customers can subscribe to market data provided on a limited group of products. The fee for this service is also a flat rate per month. Pricing for our market data services is based on the value of the service provided, our cost structure for the service and the price of comparable services offered by our competitors. Increases or decreases in our quotation data fees revenue is influenced by changes in our price structure for existing market data offerings, introduction of new market data services and changes in the number of devices in use. General economic factors that affect the financial services industry, which constitutes our primary customer base, also influence revenue from our market data services. Processing services. To further diversify the range of services we offer, we have entered into clearing and transaction processing agreements with third parties. Prior to our merger with NYMEX Holdings in August 2008, we collected fees for listing energy and metal futures products on the CME Globex platform. Prior to our merger with CBOT Holdings in July 2007, we collected fees for clearing services for CBOT products. Our processing services revenues with NYMEX and CBOT ended upon the completion of our mergers with each entity. Additionally, we provided clearing and risk management services for trades executed at FXMarketSpace Limited (FXMS), our joint venture with Thomson Reuters Group PLC (Reuters), beginning in 2007 until FXMS terminated operations in the fourth quarter of 2008. Other sources. Other sources of revenue include access and communication fees and revenue from various services related to our operations. Access and communication fees are the connectivity charges to customers of the CME Globex platform to our market data vendors and to direct market data customers as well as charges to members and clearing firms that utilize our various telecommunications networks and communications services. Access fee revenue varies depending on the type of connection provided to customers. Revenue from communication fees is largely dependent on open outcry trading, as a significant portion relates to telecommunications on our trading floors. 58 Other revenues include rent charged to third party tenants as well as ancillary charges for utilities, parking and miscellaneous services provided to tenants. We maintain three commercial buildings in Chicagos central business district. The retail and office space is rented primarily to third party tenants, including exchange customers. As part of our merger with NYMEX Holdings, we also acquired office space in New York City that is rented to third party tenants. All tenants pay market rates for rent. Revenues related to our real estate operations are generally affected by market rental rates, lease renewals and business conditions in the financial services industry in which most of our tenants operate. Additionally, other revenues include fees for administrating our Interest Earnings Facility (IEF) program, trade order routing, and various services to members and clearing firms. We offer clearing firms the opportunity to invest cash performance bonds in our various IEF offerings. These clearing firms receive interest income, and we receive a fee based on total funds on deposit. In addition, other revenues include trading gains and losses generated by GFX Corporation (GFX), our wholly owned subsidiary that trades primarily in foreign exchange futures contracts to enhance liquidity in our electronic markets for these products. Primary Expenses Most of our expenses do not vary directly with changes in our trading volume, except licensing and other fee agreements and the majority of our employee bonuses. Compensation and benefits. Compensation and benefits expense is our most significant expense and includes employee wages, bonuses, stock based compensation, benefits and employer taxes. Changes in this expense are driven by fluctuations in the number of employees, increases in wages as a result of inflation or labor market conditions, changes in rates for employer taxes and other cost increases affecting benefit plans. In addition, this expense is affected by the composition of our work force. The expense associated with our bonus and stock based compensation plans can also have a significant impact on this expense category and may vary from year to year. The bonus component of our compensation and benefits expense is based on our financial performance. Under the performance criteria of our annual incentive plans, the bonus funded under the plans would be the target level if we achieve the cash earnings target established by the compensation committee of our board of directors. Cash earnings are defined as net income less capital expenditures and exclude tax effected amortization of purchased intangibles, depreciation and amortization expense, tax effected stock based compensation expense, valuation losses on investments, tax adjustments and net interest income (expense). Under the plan, if our actual cash earnings equal 80% of the established target for a given year, the bonus will be reduced by approximately 50% of the target bonus amount. There will be no bonus if our cash earnings are less than 80% of the cash earnings target, other than for non exempt employees who may receive a bonus under our discretionary bonus program. If our actual cash earnings equal 120% of the target or higher, the bonus is increased by approximately 50% from the targeted bonus amount, which is the maximum amount established by the compensation committee. If our performance is between the threshold performance level of 80% of the cash earnings target and the maximum performance level of 120% of the cash earnings target, the bonus will be calculated based on the level of performance achieved. The compensation committee may adjust the cash earnings calculation and the target level of performance for material, unplanned revenue, expense or capital expenditures to meet intermediate to long term growth opportunities. The cash earnings calculation for bonus purposes excludes items as approved at the discretion of the compensation committee. Stock based compensation is a non cash expense related to stock options and restricted stock grants. Stock based compensation varies depending on the quantity and fair value of options granted. Fair value is derived using the Black Scholes model with assumptions about our dividend yield, the expected volatility of our stock price based on an analysis of implied and historical volatility, the risk free interest rate and the expected life of the options granted. 59 Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense results from the depreciation of long lived assets purchased, as well as the amortization of purchased and internally developed software. As a result of our merger with CBOT Holdings, we acquired three commercial buildings. Depreciation and amortization on the building and building improvements as well as other furniture, fixtures and equipment acquired in the merger has been recorded since the merger closed on July 12, 2007. We also acquired a commercial building in our merger with NYMEX Holdings. Depreciation and amortization on this building and building improvements, hardware and software have been recorded since the merger closed on August 22, 2008. Amortization of purchased intangibles. This expense primarily includes amortization of intangible assets obtained in our mergers with CBOT Holdings and NYMEX Holdings as well as other asset and business acquisitions. Intangible assets subject to amortization consist primarily of customer relationships, licensing agreements, and lease related intangible assets. Other expenses. We incur additional ongoing expenses for communications, technology support services and various other activities necessary to support our operations. Communications expense consists primarily of costs for network connections to our electronic trading platforms and some market data customers; telecommunications costs of our exchange; and fees paid for access to external market data. This expense is affected primarily by the growth of electronic trading, our capacity requirements and by changes in the number of telecommunications hubs and connections which allow customers outside the United States access to our electronic trading platforms directly. Technology support services consist of costs related to maintenance of the hardware and software required to support our technology. Our technology support services costs are driven by system capacity, functionality and redundancy requirements. Professional fees and outside services expense includes costs of consulting services provided for major strategic and technology initiatives as well as legal and accounting fees. This expense fluctuates primarily as a result of changes in services required to complete initiatives and legal proceedings. Occupancy and building operations expense consists of costs related to leased and owned property including rent, maintenance, real estate taxes, utilities and other related costs. Our office space is located primarily in Chicago and New York City with smaller offices located in Washington, D.C., Houston, London, Tokyo, Hong Kong, Shanghai, and Singapore. Additionally, we have trading facilities in Chicago and New York City as well as data centers in various U.S. locations. Licensing and other fee agreements expense consists primarily of license fees paid as a result of trading volume in equity index products, and royalty and broker rebates on metals and energy products, subsequent to the merger with NYMEX Holdings. This expense fluctuates with changes in equity index products and CME ClearPort trading volumes and fee structure changes in the agreements. Restructuring expense consists primarily of transitional employees severance, retention bonuses and associated payroll taxes as well as outplacement costs and post employment healthcare subsidies resulting from our mergers with CBOT Holdings in July 2007 and with NYMEX Holdings in August 2008. Other expenses includes marketing related as well as general and administrative costs. Marketing, advertising and public relations expense consists primarily of media, print and other advertising costs, as well as costs associated with our brand campaign and product promotion. 60 Non Operating Income and Expenses Income and expenses incurred through activities outside of our core operations are considered non operating. These activities include investments in debt and equity securities for both short term and long term strategic purposes and our securities lending program as well as financing activities. Investment income represents income generated by short term investment of excess cash, clearing firms cash performance bonds and security deposits; income and net realized gains and losses from our marketable securities; gains and losses on trading securities in our non qualified deferred compensation plans and dividend income. Investment income is influenced by the availability of funds generated by operations, market interest rates and changes in the levels of cash performance bonds deposited by clearing firms. We use derivative financial instruments for the purpose of hedging exposures to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Any ineffective or excluded portion of our hedges is recognized in earnings immediately. Under the securities lending program, we lend a portion of the securities that clearing firms deposit with us and we receive collateral in the form of cash in return. The cash is invested in either bank money market mutual funds, overnight repurchase agreements, corporate debt securities or other asset back securities to generate interest income. The balance of securities on deposit fluctuates as a result of changes in the clearing firms open positions and how clearing firms elect to satisfy their performance bond requirements. Securities lending interest expense represents the payment to the borrower of the security for the cash retained during the duration of the lending transaction. Net interest income from securities lending is impacted by changes in short term interest rates and the level of demand for the securities on deposit. CMEs securities lending program has been suspended since November 2008. NYMEXs securities lending program was terminated in June 2009. Interest and other borrowing costs are associated with various short term and long term funding facilities. In 2007, we initiated a commercial paper program with various financial institutions to fund a tender offer to repurchase Class A common stock. In 2008, we issued short term and long term debt in conjunction with our merger with NYMEX Holdings. In early 2009, we refinanced part of the debt that was previously issued for the NYMEX Holdings merger. Our debt balances primarily have fixed rates or floating rates that are fixed through the use of interest rate swaps, but some debt related costs fluctuate with the funding needs of our business. Income (expense) related to our guarantee of exercise right privileges (ERPs) is a result of our merger with CBOT Holdings. Under the terms of the merger agreement, eligible holders of Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) ERPs could elect to sell us their ERP for $250,000 per privilege. Eligible holders that did not elect to sell their ERPs were entitled to a maximum guaranteed payment of $250,000 from us upon resolution of the lawsuit between CBOT and CBOE. This income (expense) represents the change in estimated fair value of our guarantee during the period, which is based in part on the expected outcome of the litigation. It also includes adjustments to the value of our asset for the 159 ERPs that we hold. This litigation was resolved in December 2009. Equity in losses of unconsolidated subsidiaries primarily includes losses from our investments in Dubai Mercantile Exchange (DME), FXMS, Green Exchange Holdings, LLC and OneChicago LLC (OneChicago). Our investment in DME was acquired with the assets of NYMEX Holdings as part of our merger in August 2008. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The notes to our consolidated financial statements include disclosure of our significant accounting policies. In establishing these policies within the framework of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, management must make certain assessments, estimates and choices that will result in the application of these 61 principles in a manner that appropriately reflects our financial condition and results of operations. Critical accounting policies are those policies that we believe present the most complex or subjective measurements and have the most potential to affect our financial position and operating results. While all decisions regarding accounting policies are important, there are certain accounting policies that we consider to be critical. These critical policies, which are presented in detail in the notes to our consolidated financial statements, relate to valuation of financial instruments, goodwill and intangible assets, derivative instruments, revenue recognition, income taxes, internal use software costs, and stock based compensation. Valuation of financial instruments. In January 2008, we adopted the accounting guidance on fair value measurements, which provides direction for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities by defining fair value and establishing a framework for measuring fair value. The accounting guidance on fair value measurements applies to all financial instruments that are measured and reported on a fair value basis. The accounting guidance on fair value measurements defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, or an exit price. The guidance establishes a hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that the observable inputs be used when available. Observable inputs are inputs that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability based on market data obtained from independent sources. Unobservable inputs are inputs that reflect our assumptions about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on the best information available in the circumstances. We have categorized our financial instruments measured at fair value into a three level classification in accordance with the guidance. The hierarchy is categorized into three levels based on the reliability of inputs as follows: Level 1 Inputs are unadjusted, quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities at the measurement date. Assets and liabilities carried at level 1 fair value generally include U.S. Treasury and Government agency securities, equity securities listed in active markets, and investments in publicly traded mutual funds with quoted market prices. Level 2 Inputs are either directly or indirectly observable and corroborated by market data or are based on quoted prices in markets that are not active. Assets and liabilities carried at level 2 fair value generally include municipal bonds, corporate debt and certain derivatives. Level 3 Inputs are unobservable and reflect managements best estimate of what market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Generally assets and liabilities at fair value utilizing level 3 inputs include certain complex over the counter derivative contracts and certain other assets and liabilities with inputs that require managements judgment. For further discussion regarding the fair value of financial assets and liabilities, see note 24 in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Goodwill and intangible assets. According to guidance on goodwill and other intangible assets, we review goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment on an annual basis and whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. The provisions of the guidance require that a two step impairment test be performed on goodwill. In the first step, the fair value of each reporting unit is compared to its carrying amount. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying amount, no impairment exists and we are not required to perform further testing. If the carrying amount exceeds its fair value, the second step must be performed to determine the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill. If the carrying value of the reporting units goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then an impairment loss is recorded in an amount equal to that excess. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Valuation techniques we use to measure fair value 62 include the market approach and the income approach. The market approach encompasses comparable data sets within our peer group, and the income approach includes discounted cash flow measurements using a market discount rate. Our valuation techniques could yield variable results based on changes in assumptions such as the discount rate and long term growth rate and forecasted revenue and expense. Indefinite lived intangible assets are assessed for impairment by comparing their fair values to their carrying values. If the carrying value of an indefinite lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the difference. Intangible assets subject to amortization are also evaluated for impairment when indicated by a change in circumstances, pursuant to accounting guidance on impairments or disposal of long lived assets. The impairment testing requires management to estimate the fair value of the assets and record an impairment loss for the excess of the carrying value over the fair value. The estimate of the fair value of all intangible assets is generally determined on the basis of discounted future cash flows. In estimating the fair value, management must make assumptions and projections regarding such items as future cash flows, future revenues, future earnings and other factors. Such assumptions are subject to change as a result of changing economic and competitive conditions. Derivative investments. We use derivative financial instruments for the purpose of hedging exposures to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Derivatives are recorded at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets according to accounting guidance for derivative instruments and hedging activities. The guidance also requires that changes in our derivatives fair values be recognized in earnings, unless the instruments are accounted for as hedges. For a derivative designated as a fair value hedge, any gain or loss on the derivative is recognized in earnings in the period of change, to the extent the hedge is effective, together with the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the risk being hedged. We record the effective portions of our derivative financial instruments that are designated as cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. When the hedged item affects earnings, the gain or loss included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) is transferred to the same line in the consolidated statements of income as the hedged item. Any ineffective or excluded portion of a hedge is recognized in earnings immediately. Any realized gains and losses from hedges are classified in the consolidated statements of income consistent with the accounting treatment of the items being hedged. Revenue recognition. Our revenue recognition policies comply with accounting guidance on revenue recognition. Our revenue is derived primarily from the clearing and transaction fees we assess on each contract executed through our trading venues and cleared through our clearing house. Clearing and transaction fees are recognized as revenue when a buy and sell order are matched and when the trade is cleared. On occasion, the customers exchange trading privileges may not be properly entered by the clearing firm and incorrect fees are charged for the transactions in the affected accounts. When this information is corrected within the time period allowed by the exchange, a fee adjustment is provided to the clearing firm. An accrual is established for estimated fee adjustments to reflect corrections to customer exchange trading privileges. The accrual is based on the historical pattern of adjustments processed as well as specific adjustment requests. Occasionally market data customers will pay for services in a lump sum payment. When these circumstances occur, revenue is recognized as services are provided. Income taxes. Calculation of the income tax provision includes an estimate of the income taxes that will be paid for the current year as well as an estimate of income tax liabilities or benefits deferred into future years, as defined by accounting guidance on income taxes and accounting for uncertain tax positions. As required, our deferred tax assets are reviewed to determine if all assets will be realized in future periods. To the extent it is determined that some deferred tax assets may not be fully realized, the assets must be reduced by a valuation allowance. The calculation of our tax provision involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the United States and other applicable tax jurisdictions using a more likely than not recognition threshold based on the technical merits of the tax position taken or expected to be taken. If payment of these amounts varies from our estimate, our income tax provision would be reduced or increased at the time that determination is made. This determination may not 63 be known for several years. Past tax audits have not resulted in tax adjustments that would result in a material change to the income tax provision in the year the audit was completed. The effective tax rate, defined as the income tax provision as a percentage of income before income taxes, will vary from year to year based on changes to tax rates and regulations. In addition, the effective tax rate will vary with changes to income that are not subject to income tax, such as municipal interest income, and changes in expenses or losses that are not deductible, such as the utilization of foreign net operating losses. Internal use software costs. Certain costs for employees and consultants that are incurred in connection with work on development or implementation of software for our internal use are capitalized in accordance with accounting guidance for software development costs. Costs capitalized are for application development or implementation, as required by the accounting guidance, for software projects that will result in significant new functionality and that are generally expected to cost in excess of $0.5 million. The amount capitalized is determined based on the time spent by the individuals completing the eligible software related activity and the compensation and benefits or consulting fees incurred for these activities. Projects are monitored during the development cycle to assure that they continue to meet the capitalization criteria of the accounting guidance and that the project will be completed and placed in service as intended. Any previously capitalized costs are expensed at the time a decision is made to abandon a software project. Completed internal use software projects, as well as work in progress projects, are included as part of property in the consolidated balance sheets. Once complete, the accumulated costs for a particular software project are amortized over the anticipated life of the software, generally three years. Costs capitalized for internal use software will vary from year to year based on our technology related business requirements. Stock based compensation. We expense stock options using the fair value method under the provisions of the accounting guidance on share based payments. We have elected the accelerated method for recognizing the expense related to stock grants. Due to this election and the vesting provisions of our stock grants, a greater percentage of the total expense is recognized in the first and second years of the vesting period than would be recorded if we used the straight line method. We include an estimate of expected forfeitures of stock grants in our expense recognition calculations. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In June 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance that changes the analysis required to determine whether a variable interest gives a company a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity. This change may result in the consolidation of entities that we currently do not consolidate and requires an ongoing reassessment of the consolidation requirement. In addition, enhanced disclosures are required that will provide the readers of financial statements with more transparent information about a companys involvement in a variable interest entity. This standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009. We believe the impact of this standards adoption will be immaterial to our consolidated financial statements. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2009 Financial Highlights The comparability of our operating results for the periods presented is significantly impacted by our mergers with CBOT Holdings and NYMEX Holdings in July 2007 and August 2008, respectively. In the discussion and analysis that follows, we have quantified the incremental revenue or expense resulting from these transactions wherever such amounts were material and identifiable. While identified amounts may provide indications of general trends, the analysis cannot completely address the effects attributable to integration efforts. 64 The following summarizes significant changes in our financial performance for the periods presented. Year over Year Change (dollars in millions, except per share data) 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2008 2007 Total revenues $ 2,612.8 $ 2,561.0 $ 1,756.1 2 % 46 % Total expenses 1,023.7 978.8 704.2 5 39 Operating margin 61 % 62 % 60 % Non operating income (expense) $ (151.6 ) $ (334.2 ) $ 43.9 (55 ) n.m. Effective tax rate 43 % 43 % 40 % Net income $ 825.8 $ 715.5 $ 658.5 15 9 Diluted earnings per common share 12.41 12.13 14.93 2 (19 ) Cash flows from operations 1,083.1 1,197.2 814.4 (10 ) 47 n.m. not meaningful From 2007 to 2009, the increase in revenues was largely due to the increase in clearing and transaction fees and quotation data fees. These increases were partially offset by a decline in processing services revenues. Increases in compensation and benefits, amortization of purchased intangibles and licensing and other fee agreements led to higher overall expenses from 2007 to 2009. Non operating income (expense) decreased in 2009 due to a 2008 impairment charge on our investment in BM&FBOVESPA S.A. (BM&FBOVESPA) of $274.5 million as well as impairment charges on FXMS and certain securities lending assets. This decrease in expense was partially offset by an increase in interest expense and other borrowing costs from 2007 to 2009 due to an increase in debt levels as well as 2009 impairment charges of $46.0 million related to IMAREX and DME. In addition, investment income also decreased from 2007 to 2009 due largely to a decline in rates. The 2009 effective tax rate remained consistent with the prior year. An additional valuation allowance related to unrealized capital losses increased the effective tax rate in 2009. However, this increase was offset by the favorable impact of a New York City tax law change. In the third quarter of 2008, we recorded a charge for the impact of our new combined state and local tax rates, which was offset by the favorable impact of an Illinois tax law change in the first quarter of 2008 and an increase in our valuation allowance related to unrealized capital losses. Our effective tax rate increased in 2008 due primarily to the increase in our state and local tax rates as a result of our merger with NYMEX Holdings. We experienced a decline in diluted earnings per share in 2008, despite improved financial performance, due to the impact of common stock issuances as a result of our mergers. Cash flows from operations are strongly correlated with trading volume on a year over year basis. Revenues Year over Year Change (dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2008 2007 Clearing and transactions fees $ 2,161.9 $ 2,115.4 $ 1,427.3 2 % 48 % Quotation data fees 331.1 279.5 145.1 18 93 Processing services 0.5 54.1 106.4 (99 ) (49 ) Access and communication fees 45.6 43.6 36.5 4 19 Other 73.7 68.4 40.8 8 68 Total Revenues $ 2,612.8 $ 2,561.0 $ 1,756.1 2 46 65 Clearing and Transaction Fees. Revenues increased in 2009 when compared with 2008 and in 2008 when compared with 2007 largely due to the following: Trading Volume The following table summarizes average daily trading volume. For CBOT volume information in 2007, average daily volumes have been calculated for the period from July 13 through December 31, 2007. NYMEX product and CME ClearPort services volume in 2008 have been calculated for the period from August 23 through December 31, 2008. All amounts exclude TRAKRS, Swapstream, HuRLO contracts, credit default swaps and auction traded products. Year over Year Change (amounts in thousands) 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2008 2007 Product Line Average Daily Volume: Interest rate 4,260 6,085 7,093 (30 )% (14 )% Equity 2,916 3,663 2,744 (20 ) 33 Foreign exchange 624 623 569 10 Commodity 741 848 728 (13 ) 16 Energy 1,492 1,348 11 n.m. Metal 225 208 8 n.m. Aggregate average daily volume 10,258 12,775 11,134 (20 ) 16 Average Daily Volume by Venue: Electronic 8,290 10,180 8,661 (19 ) 18 Open outcry 1,310 1,943 2,276 (33 ) (15 ) Privately negotiated 164 208 197 (21 ) 5 Total exchange traded volume 9,764 12,331 11,134 (21 ) 11 Total CME ClearPort 494 444 11 n.m. Aggregate average daily volume 10,258 12,775 11,134 (20 ) 16 Electronic Volume as a Percentage of Total Volume 81 % 80 % 78 % n.m. not meaningful In 2009, when compared with 2008, the decline in average daily trading volume was largely attributable to a decrease in interest rate products and equity products volume. The addition of the NYMEX product lines in 2008 largely contributed to the increase in average daily volume from 2007 to 2008. In addition, there was a significant increase in overall market volatility in the second half of 2007 and throughout 2008, which we believe contributed to the overall increase in average daily volume from 2007 to 2008, specifically within equity products. We believe the increase in market volatility during that time period was due to concerns surrounding the subprime debt market which evolved into a credit crisis in 2008. Despite the decrease in average daily volume for interest rate products in 2008 when compared with 2007, total overall interest rate product volume increased in 2008 due to the addition of the U.S. Treasury futures and options acquired through the merger with CBOT Holdings in July 2007. In the discussion that follows, NYMEX product and CME ClearPort services volume information for the periods prior to August 23, 2008 is provided for comparative purposes only and does not correspond to revenue recognized by CME Group prior to that date. CBOT volume information for periods prior to July 13, 2007 is also provided for comparative purposes only. Interest Rate Products The overall decrease in interest rate volume from 2007 to 2009 was attributable to the credit crisis. We also believe the Federal Reserve Banks zero interest rate policy for short term interest rates contributed to a decrease in volumes in 2009 when compared with 2008. 66 The following table summarizes average daily volume and changes in average daily volume relative to the prior periods for our key interest rate products. Year over Year Change (amounts in thousands) 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2008 2007 Eurodollar futures 1,736 2,360 2,456 (26 )% (4 )% Eurodollar options 639 903 1,237 (29 ) (27 ) U.S. Treasury futures and options: 10 Year 913 1,239 1,627 (26 ) (24 ) 5 Year 410 715 718 (43 ) 30 Year 292 427 495 (32 ) (14 ) 2 Year 201 323 275 (38 ) 17 We believe that the zero interest rate policy and increased risk aversion by market participants following the credit crisis contributed to the decrease in Eurodollar futures and options from 2007 to 2009. We believe this has reduced certain customers ability or need to assume and maintain positions. We believe that the overall decline in U.S. Treasury note futures and options volume from 2007 to 2009 was attributable to the credit crisis, which resulted in reduced corporate debt issuances, reduced mortgage issuances and refinancing activity, a slowdown in the U.S. Treasury cash market trading as well as the Federal Reserve Banks purchase of U.S. Treasury securities. The decline in 2009 when compared with 2008 was also attributable to the zero interest rate policy, which we believe reduced market participants need to hedge interest rate risk. In 2008, when compared with 2007, we believe the credit crisis contributed to some fixed income market participants shifting from long term debt to short term debt, which led to a decrease in volumes for products on the long end of the yield curve relative to products on the short end of the yield curve. During the second half of 2009, overall interest rate product volume increased relative to the first half of 2009. We believe that improved economic conditions contributed to the increase in volume. Equity Products During the second half of 2007 through the first quarter of 2009, there was significant volatility in the equity markets, which we believe was attributable to concerns regarding the credit crisis. Average volatility, as measured by the CBOE Volatility Index, increased to 33% in 2008 from 18% in 2007. Average volatility decreased to 27% in the last three quarters of 2009 from 52% from the fourth quarter of 2008 through the first quarter of 2009. Average daily volume for E mini equity products decreased by 19% to 2.6 million contracts per day in 2009 when compared with 2008. The decline in volume was primarily attributable to the decline in E mini S&P 500 contracts, which decreased by 12% to an average of 2.3 million contracts per day when compared with 2008. Volume for the E mini NASDAQ 100 contracts decreased by 28% to an average of 0.3 million contracts per day when compared with 2008. We believe that the decline in E mini S&P 500 contracts and E mini NASDAQ 100 contracts decreased due to the decline in volatility in the second quarter through the fourth quarter of 2009 when compared with the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009. In addition, the decline in volume was attributable to the termination of our license to list Russell based contracts. Volume for the Russell based contracts averaged 0.3 million contracts per day for January 1 through September 22, 2008. In 2008, average daily volume for our E mini equity products increased by 37% to 3.3 million contracts when compared with 2007. This increase included growth in E mini S&P 500 contracts, which grew by 52% to an average of 2.6 million contracts per day when compared with 2007. We believe the growth in equity trading volume in 2008 when compared with 2007 was attributable to the increase in volatility. The increase was partially offset by the termination of our license to list Russell based contracts. Volume for the Russell based contracts was 0.3 million per day in 2007. 67 Foreign Exchange Products The following table summarizes average daily volume and changes in average daily volume relative to the prior periods for our key foreign exchange futures and options products. Year over Year Change (amounts in thousands) 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2008 2007 Euro 225 223 177 1 % 26 % British pound 100 83 84 21 Japanese yen 93 133 125 (30 ) 6 Australian dollar 68 45 43 50 5 Canadian dollar 63 46 50 36 (8 ) We believe that the volume for our Euro products has remained flat and the Japanese yen products has declined due to the convergence of interest rates towards zero between the European, United States and Japanese markets. The increase in volume for the British pound, Australian dollar and Canadian dollar products was attributable to a divergence between interest rates in the United States and interest rates in the British, Australian and Canadian markets. Trading volume for foreign exchange products increased in 2008 when compared with 2007 due largely to increased volatility of the U.S. dollar relative to other major currencies, particularly the euro and the Japanese yen. Commodity Products We believe a decrease in market volatility and decreased demand for commodities products as a result of the credit crisis caused the overall decline in volume for commodities products in 2009 when compared with 2008. We believe the credit crisis has reduced certain customers ability or need to assume and maintain positions. The increase in CBOT corn and soybean products contributed to an increase in overall commodities trading volume in 2008 when compared with 2007. During 2008, volume for basic corn products increased by 17% to an average of 320,000 contracts per day. Average daily volume for basic soybean products grew by 16% to 183,000 contracts per day during 2008. We believe that the increases in volume were due primarily to changes in global supply and demand resulting in increased volatility as well as increased use of commodities as an asset class. Energy Products Energy products primarily consist of crude oil, natural gas, power and other energy related exchange traded contracts and over the counter contracts cleared through CME ClearPort. Average daily volume for energy contracts cleared through CME ClearPort increased by 16% to an average of 0.5 million per day in 2009 when compared with 2008, including the period prior to our merger. We believe the increase was due to market participants seeking to mitigate counterparty risk on their over the counter exposures through central counter party clearing. Metal Products Metal products generally include gold, silver and other precious and base metals. We believe metal products volume decreased by 4% to an average of 0.2 million contracts per day in 2009 when compared with 2008, including the period prior to our merger, due largely to lower volatility and decreased demand for metal products as a result of the credit crisis. 68 Average Rate per Contract CBOT total volume and fees have been included beginning July 13, 2007. NYMEX total volume and fees have been included beginning August 23, 2008. All amounts in the following table exclude TRAKRS, Swapstream, HuRLO contracts, credit default swaps and auction traded products. Year over Year Change 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2008 2007 Total Volume (in millions) 2,584.9 2,978.5 2,249.6 (13 )% 33 % Clearing and Transaction Fees (in millions) $ 2,161.7 $ 2,114.7 $ 1,426.2 2 48 Average Rate per Contract 0.836 0.710 0.634 18 12 The average rate per contract increased in 2009 when compared with 2008 due to the addition of NYMEX products and CME ClearPort services to our existing product line, which had an average rate per contract of $1.512 and $2.051, respectively, in 2009. Additionally, the average rate per contract increased due to a lower portion of interest rate products as a percentage of total volume compared with equity products, which have a higher rate per contract. As a percentage of volume, equity products trading volume increased by 2% in 2009, while interest rate products volume decreased by 4% when compared with 2008. During 2008, the addition of NYMEX products and ClearPort services to our existing product lines was the primary contributor to an increase in the overall rate per contract when compared with 2007 as NYMEX products and CME ClearPort average rate per contract was $1.466 and $2.062 for the period August 23 through December 31, 2008. The increase in average rate per contract when compared with 2007 was also attributable to a lower portion of CME interest rate products as a percentage of total volume compared with CME equity products, which have a higher rate per contract. As a percentage of total volume, CME equity products trading volume increased by 9% in 2008, while CME interest rate products trading volume decreased by 10% when compared with 2007. In addition, the overall increase in the average rate per contract was partially attributable to the full year impact in 2008 of the average rate per contract for CBOT products. The average rate per contract for CBOT products in 2008 was $0.712. The increase in average rate per contract during 2008 was partially offset by a decrease in the average rate per contract for the E mini S&P futures and options because incremental volume exceeded the CME Globex fee cap. Volume/Rate Analysis Average rate per contract is impacted by our rate structure, which includes volume based incentives; product mix; trading venue, and the percentage of trading volume executed by customers who are members compared with non member customers. Due to the relationship between average rate per contract and volume, the change in revenues attributable to changes in each is only an approximation. Using the total volume and average rate per contract data provided in the table above, we estimate that clearing and transaction fees revenue increased by $376.1 million due to the rise in average rate per contract and decreased by $329.1 million due to the decline in total volume, resulting in a net increase in revenues in 2009 of $47.0 million when compared with 2008. In 2008, we estimate that clearing and transaction fees revenue increased by $517.5 million due to an increase in total volume and increased by $171.0 million due to the increase in average rate per contract, resulting in a total increase in revenues of $688.5 million when compared with 2007. Concentration of Revenue We bill a substantial portion of our clearing and transaction fees to our clearing firms. The majority of clearing and transaction fees received from clearing firms represent charges for trades executed and cleared on behalf of their customers. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 140 clearing firms. One firm represented 11% and one firm represented 10% of our clearing and transaction fees revenue in 2009. One firm represented 12% and one firm represented 10% of our clearing and transaction fee revenue in 2008. In 2007, one firm represented 69 approximately 11% of clearing and transaction fees revenue. Should a clearing firm withdraw, we believe that the customer portion of the firms trading activity would likely transfer to another clearing firm of the exchange. Therefore, we do not believe we are exposed to significant risk from the loss of revenue received from a particular clearing firm. Quotation Data Fees. The increase in revenues in the periods presented were attributable to the following: Year over Year Change (dollars in millions except monthly fee per device) 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2008 2007 Average estimated monthly basic device screen count 414,000 349,000 219,000 65,000 130,000 Basic device monthly fee per device $ 55 $ 55 $ 50 $ $ 5 Estimated increase in revenues Due to an increase in screen counts $ 43.4 $ 81.0 Due to an increase in monthly fee per device 17.7 Data feed surcharges 4.0 12.3 Vendor licensing fees 5.0 4.9 Vendor audit assessments (2.8 ) 4.4 CME, CBOT and NYMEX services 49.6 120.3 CMA services 4.4 10.3 Incremental revenues of $59.2 million and $36.0 million generated from the NYMEX services in 2009 and 2008, which are included in the table above, contributed to the increase in overall revenues. In 2009, incremental revenues from NYMEX were partially offset by a decrease in CME and CBOT revenues when compared with 2008. Average basic device screen counts for existing CME and CBOT customers declined in 2009 due largely to cost cutting initiatives at customer firms. The decrease in vendor audit assessments in 2009 was due to a $4.4 million assessment recognized in 2008 as a result of an audit of customer reported device counts. This represented revenue that would have otherwise been recognized in prior periods. Revenues from CMA services include fees for data services provided to CMA customers subsequent to our acquisition of CMA in March 2008. Effective January 1, 2010, all users of our basic service will pay $61 per month for each device. The two largest resellers of our market data represented approximately 55%, 56% and 67% of our quotation data fees in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Despite this concentration, we consider exposure to significant risk of revenue loss to be minimal. In the event that one of these vendors no longer subscribes to our market data, we believe the majority of that vendors customers would likely subscribe to our market data through another reseller. Additionally, several of our largest institutional customers that utilize services from our two largest resellers report usage and remit payment of quotation data fees directly to us. Processing Services. The decrease in revenues over the periods presented was attributable to the termination of our prior service agreements with CBOT and NYMEX as a result of the mergers. In 2008 and 2007, we recognized revenue of $45.7 million and $56.4 million from our trade matching agreement with NYMEX, which was terminated on August 22, 2008. Our clearing agreement with CBOT, which was terminated on July 12, 2007, generated revenues of $48.2 million in 2007. In addition, the operations of FXMS terminated in the fourth quarter of 2008. As a result, we recognized incremental revenues of $6.4 million, when compared with 2007, primarily related to fees paid by FXMS for clearing and trade matching services which would have otherwise been recognized through January 2012. Access and Communication Fees. The increase in revenues from 2007 to 2008 was attributable to the telecommunication services provided to CBOT customers subsequent to our merger with CBOT Holdings in July 2007. The ongoing upgrade of customer bandwidth connections and expansion of our co location program 70 contributed to growth in revenues from 2007 through 2009. The increase in 2009 when compared with 2008 was partially offset by a decrease in trading floor related fees resulting from the consolidation of our Chicago trading floors in mid 2008. Other Revenues. Annual increases (decreases) in other revenues consisted primarily of the following: Year over Year Change (in millions) 2008 2007 2009 2008 NYMEX rental income and other building related revenues $ 8.9 $ 4.4 Interest Earnings Facility programs 0.7 3.4 CBOT rental income and other building related revenues (1.1 ) 16.1 FXMS (1.9 ) 1.1 From 2007 to 2009, the IEF programs generated additional revenues due to an increase in the average funds invested by our clearing firm members in these programs. In addition, revenues generated from CBOTs building operations declined in 2009 as a result of a tenant termination fee recognized in the fourth quarter of 2008. Due to the termination of FXMSs operations in the fourth quarter of 2008, we recognized additional revenues for fees paid by FXMS for billing and regulatory services. This contributed to lower revenues in 2009 and higher revenues in 2008. Operating Expenses Year over YearChange (in millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2008 2007 Compensation and benefits $ 351.0 $ 317.6 $ 263.3 11 % 21 % Communications 47.0 52.3 43.5 (10 ) 20 Technology support services 46.2 59.6 50.5 (23 ) 18 Professional fees and outside services 85.1 71.9 53.1 18 35 Amortization of purchased intangibles 125.1 98.7 33.9 27 n.m. Depreciation and amortization 126.3 137.3 105.7 (8 ) 30 Occupancy and building operations 76.3 71.4 48.2 7 48 Licensing and other fee agreements 89.2 70.3 35.6 27 97 Restructuring 5.3 4.8 8.9 11 (46 ) Other 72.2 94.9 61.5 (24 ) 54 Total Expenses $ 1,023.7 $ 978.8 $ 704.2 5 39 n.m. not meaningful Compensation and Benefits. Annual increases (decreases) in expenses consisted primarily of the following: Year over Year Change (in millions) 2009 2008 2008 2007 Average headcount $ 24.4 $ 45.5 Non qualified deferred compensation plan 12.7 (10.4 ) Average salaries, benefits and employer taxes 4.0 7.3 Bonus 0.3 (6.9 ) Stock based compensation (4.1 ) 14.7 Average headcount increased by 10% or about 200 employees in 2009 and 22% or about 380 employees in 2008. The increases resulted from the addition of approximately 400 employees in our merger with NYMEX Holdings and approximately 690 employees in our merger with CBOT Holdings, 71 the impacts of which were partially offset by our restructuring plans. Additionally, headcount increased by 50 employees as a result of the CMA acquisition in March 2008. As of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we had approximately 2,260, 2,300 and 1,970 employees, respectively. The increase in our non qualified deferred compensation plan liability in 2009 also contributed to an increase in expenses when compared with 2008. In 2008 when compared with 2007, the decrease in our liability contributed to a decrease in expenses. These impacts do not affect net income because of an equal and offsetting change in investment income. Salary increases and rising pension and healthcare costs contributed to increases in average salaries, benefits and employer taxes from 2007 to 2009. Salary increases in 2009 were largely due to staff promotions. Bonus expense increased in 2009 due primarily to an increase in headcount during the year largely offset by a decline in performance relative to our 2009 cash earnings target compared with 2008 relative to our 2008 cash earnings target. The increases in expenses in 2008 were partially offset by a decrease in bonus expense due primarily to a decline in performance relative to our 2008 cash earnings target compared with 2007 relative to our 2007 cash earnings target. Increases in total expense in 2009 were partially offset by a decrease in stock based compensation due to our decision to delay annual stock grants for 2009 until the third quarter. The additional expense related to the June 2008 grant and the conversion of stock options previously granted to NYMEX Holdings employees partially offset the impact of this delay. Stock based compensation increased in 2008 due primarily to the accelerated vesting of stock options previously granted to NYMEX Holdings employees and the full impact of the expense related to the June 2007 grant. Communications. The elimination of costs incurred to support our CBOT metal products on e CBOT, CBOTs legacy electronic trading platform that was terminated as of July 2008, as well as improved network efficiencies as a result of the consolidation of trading systems and floor operations in Chicago contributed to a decline in expenses in 2009 when compared with 2008. The decrease was partially offset by incremental expenses of $3.0 million generated by NYMEX operations in 2009 when compared with 2008. The increase in expenses in 2008 when compared with 2007 was primarily due to the costs incurred to upgrade bandwidth for customers and consolidate our trading floor operations. In addition, we incurred a full year of NYMEX communications expense during 2009. Technology Support Services. The decreases in expenses in 2009 when compared with 2008 were largely due to the termination of maintenance and service agreements for e CBOT in July 2008. The declines in expenses were partially offset by incremental expenses generated by NYMEX operations. The increase in expenses in 2008 when compared with 2007 was due to increases in software and hardware maintenance contracts, including the maintenance and support of the e CBOT electronic trading platform, and increases in software. Professional Fees and Outside Services. Costs incurred to support various strategic initiatives, including our efforts to provide clearing services for credit default swaps and other over the counter products, led to growth in expenses in 2009 when compared with 2008. In addition, the increase in expenses was attributable to consulting services and other outside services associated with ongoing NYMEX operations. The increase in 2009 was partially offset by a decrease in expenses as the result of additional temporary staffing and consulting services in 2008 due to infrastructure development, product support and various strategic initiatives. In 2008, when compared with 2007, the increases in technology related and other professional fees, net of amounts capitalized for internally developed software, were due primarily to consulting services used to supplement our merger integration efforts as well as non capitalizable software development costs and expenses incurred to support our strategic initiatives. 72 Legal fees increased in 2008 when compared with 2007 due to class action lawsuits filed in connection with the NYMEX Holdings merger. The increase in expenses was partially offset by higher legal fees in 2007 due to litigation costs related to Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement System (LAMPERS) and CBOE proceedings resulting from our merger with CBOT Holdings, as well as the ongoing antitrust suit filed by Eurex U.S. Amortization of Purchased Intangibles. Amortization increased from 2007 to 2009 due primarily to the amortization of intangible assets acquired in our mergers with CBOT Holdings and NYMEX Holdings, completed in July 2007 and August 2008, respectively. Depreciation and Amortization. Declines in expenses in 2009, when compared with 2008, were attributable primarily to trading floor consolidation and systems integration in 2008 as well as capital expenditure reductions in 2009. The decreases were partially offset by incremental depreciation expense related to assets acquired in our merger with NYMEX Holdings in August 2008 and incremental depreciation expense on our new data center building that we have been depreciating since August 2009. Expenses increased in 2008 compared with 2007 due to assets acquired in our mergers with NYMEX Holdings and CBOT Holdings. In addition, we accelerated depreciation in 2008 on various CBOT technology related and trading floor assets as well as certain NYMEX technology related assets. Property additions are summarized below. Technology related assets include purchases of computers and related equipment, software, the cost of developing internal use software and the build out of our data centers. The decrease in total property additions and technology related assets as a percentage of total additions during 2009, when compared with 2008, was due to our efforts to reduce equipment and software purchases in 2009. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in purchases of assets associated with our new data center, which we began capitalizing in early 2008. Total additions related to our new data center for 2008 and 2009 totaled $83.6 million, including $50.2 million in 2009. The useful lives associated with the new data center range from 10 to 39 years. Increases in property additions in 2008, when compared with 2007, were due primarily to spending for the development of our new data center and the development of our Chicago office space. Year over Year Change (dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2008 2007 Total property additions, including landlord funded leasehold improvements $ 157.9 $ 200.1 $ 163.7 (21 )% 22 % Technology related assets as a percentage of total property additions 65 % 72 % 77 % Occupancy and Building Operations. Increases in expenses from 2007 to 2009 were attributable primarily to commercial real estate acquired in our merger with NYMEX Holdings. Expenses associated with the acquired property include utilities, maintenance, property taxes and insurance expenses. These increases in 2009 were partially offset by a decrease resulting from a reduction in temporary space in our Chicago headquarters. In addition, rent expense increases in 2008, when compared with 2007, were due to additional office space in London, Hong Kong, Japan and Singapore as well as property acquired through the merger with CBOT Holdings. Additionally, the property for our new data center was purchased in 2008, resulting in increased occupancy expense. Licensing and Other Fee Agreements. The incremental expense generated from broker rebates, royalty fees and other licensing fees on NYMEX products contributed to the increases when compared with 2008. Total broker rebates were $39.3 million and $13.6 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Increases in 2009 were partially offset by decreases in licensing fees for E mini and standard equity products of $8.4 million due to declines in trading volume. Fee sharing expenses also decreased $1.2 million in 2009 when compared with 2008 due primarily to the sale of CBOT metals products in September 2008. 73 In 2008, higher average daily trading volume for certain licensed products and additional royalty fees and broker rebates on NYMEX products contributed to additional expenses when compared with 2007. In addition, licensing fees on E mini S&P and on E mini NASDAQ 100 products contributed to the increase in 2008. Restructuring. This expense consisted primarily of severance to transitional CBOT and NYMEX employees, severance to CME employees, retention bonuses and associated payroll taxes as well as outplacement costs and post employment healthcare subsidies. The restructuring program related to the CBOT Holdings merger was substantially complete by July 2008. The restructuring program related to the NYMEX Holdings merger was substantially complete by August 2009. Other Expenses. Annual increases (decreases) in other expenses consisted primarily of the following: Year over Year Change (in millions) 2009 2008 2008 2007 Goodwill impairment on Swapstream operations $ (11.9 ) $ 11.9 Marketing, advertising and other costs due to the mergers and other strategic initiatives (9.0 ) 6.3 Foreign currency transaction (gains) losses primarily related to the Brazilian real and British pound (4.9 ) 3.8 CMA in process research and development costs recorded in 2008 (3.7 ) 3.7 Loss on sale of CBOT metals trading products recorded in 2008 (2.8 ) 2.8 In addition, the companys expense reduction efforts contributed to the decreases in expenses in 2009 when compared with 2008. The decreases in expenses in 2009 were partially offset by incremental expenses incurred as part of the NYMEX Holdings merger, increases in other state and local taxes, bank fees and litigation settlements, including the CBOE ERP settlement. In 2008, a higher level of general and administrative expenses resulting from our mergers also contributed to an increase in expenses when compared with 2007. Non Operating Income (Expense) Year over Year Change (dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2008 2007 Investment income $ 28.5 $ 45.5 $ 73.2 (37 )% (38 )% Impairment of long term investments (46.0 ) (274.5 ) (83 ) n.m. Gains (losses) on derivative investments (8.1 ) (0.1 ) (100 ) n.m. Securities lending interest income 2.8 38.3 121.5 (93 ) (68 ) Securities lending interest and other costs (0.1 ) (51.7 ) (115.9 ) (100 ) (55 ) Interest and other borrowing costs (133.9 ) (56.5 ) (3.6 ) 137 n.m. Guarantee of exercise rights privileges 4.3 12.8 (17.2 ) (66 ) 175 Equity in losses of unconsolidated subsidiaries (6.8 ) (31.5 ) (14.0 ) (79 ) 125 Other income (expense) (0.4 ) (8.5 ) (95 ) n.m. Total Non Operating $ (151.6 ) $ (334.2 ) $ 43.9 (55 ) n.m. n.m. not meaningful Investment Income. From 2007 to 2009, investment income declined due primarily to decreases in market interest rates throughout 2008 resulting from rate reductions by the Federal Open Market Committee. The decline due to interest rates was partially offset by an increase in the invested portion of clearing firms cash from performance bonds and security deposits. Annualized average rates of return and average investment balances indicated in the table below include the portion of clearing firms cash performance bonds and security deposits we chose to invest and other short term 74 investments classified as either cash and cash equivalents or marketable securities in our consolidated balance sheets. The increase in average investment balance for clearing firms cash during 2009, when compared with prior years, was a result of firms choosing to meet a greater proportion of their performance bond requirements with cash instead of securities. The average balance of other short term investments is a function of anticipated or possible short term cash needs, prevailing interest rates, our investment policy and alternative investment choices. Year over Year Change (dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2008 2007 Invested portion of clearing firms cash: Annual average rate of return 0.11 % 2.03 % 4.42 % (1.92 )% (2.39 )% Average investment balance $ 4,434.4 $ 416.3 $ 273.1 $ 4,018.1 $ 143.2 Change in income due to rate (85.2 ) (9.9 ) Change in income due to balance 81.7 6.3 Other short term investments: Annual average rate of return 0.59 % 2.87 % 4.47 % (2.28 )% (1.60 )% Average investment balance $ 479.9 $ 1,082.2 $ 1,290.7 $ (602.3 ) $ (208.5 ) Change in income due to rate (10.9 ) (19.3 ) Change in income due to balance (17.3 ) (9.4 ) The analysis presented in the table above does not include income (loss) on insurance contracts or gains (losses) on marketable securities related to our non qualified deferred compensation plans. We recognized $4.5 million, $(8.2) million and $(2.2) million in gains (losses) on marketable securities associated with our deferred compensation plans in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. We exclude the impact of the marketable securities related to our non qualified deferred compensation plan from this analysis because gains and losses from these securities are offset by an equal amount of compensation and benefits expense. Dividend income from our investments in BM&FBOVESPA and TMX Group Inc. stock is also excluded from the table above. Dividend income was $15.8 million and $13.3 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. We did not earn dividend income in 2007. Impairment of Long Term Investments. We assess our equity investments for other than temporary impairment on a quarterly basis. At December 31, 2009 we determined our investment in DME was impaired due to the excess of our carrying value over the estimated fair value. As a result we recognized an impairment charge of $23.6 million. At September 30, 2009, we determined that our investment in IMAREX was impaired due to an extended and significant decline in the market price of its stock. As a result we recognized an impairment charge of $22.4 million. During 2008 we determined that our investment in BM&FBOVESPA was impaired due to an extended decline in the market price of BM&F stock. As a result we recognized an impairment loss of $274.5 million. Gains (Losses) on Derivative Investments. The net gain (loss) on derivative investments recognized in 2008 was primarily due to the loss on a put option contract purchased to hedge our risk of changes in the fair value of BM&FBOVESPA stock resulting from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Brazilian real. We entered into the put option with Lehman Brothers Special Financing Inc. in February 2008 and we terminated the contract in September 2008 when Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for bankruptcy. Securities Lending Income and Expense. During 2009, CMEs securities lending program remained suspended as the high volatility in the credit markets and extreme demand for U.S. Treasury securities continued. Expenses decreased in 2008, when compared with 2007, due primarily to the curtailment, and at times suspension, of our securities lending program due to increasing volatility in the credit markets and demand for U.S. Treasury securities. This resulted in a decline in the average daily balance of funds invested in 2008 when compared with 2007. The increase in spread between the average rate earned and the average rate paid during 2008 was due to 75 the combination of an increase in demand for U.S. Treasury securities, which affects the rate paid, and a lag effect from changing interest rates in the reinvested cash in money market funds, which affects the rate earned. The decrease in 2008 overall revenue and expense was attributable to the decline in average funds invested as well as the Federal Open Market Committees interest rate reductions. Year over Year Change (dollars in billions) 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2008 2007 Average daily balance of funds invested $ $ 0.9 $ 2.3 $ (0.9 ) $ (1.4 ) Annual average rate earned % 3.40 % 5.27 % (3.40 )% (1.87 )% Annual average rate paid 2.77 5.03 (2.77 ) (2.26 ) Net earned from securities lending % 0.63 % 0.24 % (0.63 )% 0.39 % The table above does not include activity from the NYMEX securities lending program, which closed in June 2009. Under the program, securities lending interest income and expense totaled $2.8 million and $0.4 million, respectively, for 2009. For 2008, securities lending interest income and expense totaled $6.9 million and $1.7 million, respectively. In 2008, we also recognized an impairment loss of $18.3 million on a corporate debt security held in the NYMEX securities lending portfolio. In addition, securities lending interest expense for 2009 included a $0.3 million recovery of a $6.0 million impairment charge related to the CME securities lending program that was previously recognized in the third quarter of 2008. The table above does not include this recovery or the initial charge. Interest and Other Borrowing Costs. The increases in interest and other borrowing costs in 2009 and 2008 were due to higher average debt levels outstanding, which were the result of debt issued in August 2008 in conjunction with the NYMEX Holdings merger. These borrowings consisted of commercial paper and short and long term notes. Prior to August 2008, borrowings consisted only of commercial paper. Year over Year Change 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2008 2007 Weighted average borrowings outstanding (in millions) $ 2,841.8 $ 1,296.1 $ 64.2 $ 1,545.7 $ 1,231.9 Weighted average effective yield 4.23 % 3.58 % 4.95 % 0.65 % (1.37 )% Total cost of borrowing 4.76 4.30 4.98 0.46 (0.68 ) Total cost of borrowing includes interest, commitment fees, discount accretion and debt issuance costs. In February 2009, we terminated our revolving bridge facility. Total debt issuance costs recognized for the bridge facility during the first quarter of 2009 were $7.6 million, including $4.6 million of accelerated costs resulting from the facilitys termination. Guarantee of Exercise Right Privileges. Under the terms of our merger with CBOT Holdings, holders that did not elect to sell their ERPs to us were entitled to a minimum guaranteed payment of up to $250,000 upon resolution of the lawsuit between CBOT and CBOE. Our liability under the guarantee, which was recorded at fair value in other liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets, was estimated at $1.2 million and $14.0 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In December 2009, final approval of the settlement occurred and we reduced our liability to zero. Following the resolution of the lawsuit, we also adjusted the value of the 159 ERPs that we hold to the expected settlement value. The liability decreased during 2008 due to a reassessment of possible outcomes of the litigation which resulted in a gain for 2008. The expense in 2007 was due to the establishment of the liability. Equity in Losses of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries. The termination of our investment in FXMS, our joint venture with Reuters, in the fourth quarter of 2008 contributed to the decrease in losses in 2009 when compared with 2008. In 2008, we recognized losses from our investment in FXMS of $26.5 million including a $15.9 76 million write off of our recorded investment in FXMS and our portion of the remaining capital needed to wind down operations. Losses in 2009 included our share of losses from our investments in DME, Green Exchange Holdings LLC and OneChicago. The decision to terminate our investment in FXMS resulted in an increase in losses in 2008 when compared with 2007. Other Non Operating Expense. The reduction in expenses was attributable to additional expenses in 2008 due to transfer and other transaction fees related to our investment in BM&FBOVESPA in the first quarter of 2008. Income Tax Provision The effective tax rate was 42.6% in 2009 compared with 42.7% in 2008 and 39.9% in 2007. In 2009, the rate increased as a result of an additional valuation allowance of $64.4 million related to unrealized capital losses partially offset by a $38.9 million reduction in net deferred tax liabilities related to a New York City tax law change enacted in 2009. In 2008, the rate reflected a $48.3 million charge to record the impact of our new combined state and local tax rate on our existing net deferred tax liabilities, partially offset by a first quarter 2008 Illinois tax law change that resulted in a $38.6 million reduction in net deferred tax liabilities. The increase in rates during 2009 and 2008, when compared with 2007, was due primarily to the state and local tax impact of our merger with NYMEX Holdings in August 2008. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash Requirements. Until we began our commercial paper program in mid 2007, we historically met our funding requirements with cash generated by our ongoing operations. While our cost structure is primarily fixed in the short term, our sources of operating cash are largely dependent on trading volume levels. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, and other commitments. However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities through future public debt offerings or by borrowing money from financial institutions. Cash will also be required for operating leases and non cancelable contractual obligations as well as commitments reflected as liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2009. These commitments are as follows: (in millions) OperatingLeases ContractualObligations OtherLiabilities Total(a) Year 2010 $ 20.0 $ 19.9 $ 39.0 $ 78.9 2011 2012 42.3 20.8 63.1 2013 2014 39.0 8.0 47.0 Thereafter 133.7 133.7 Total $ 235.0 $ 48.7 $ 39.0 $ 322.7 (a) Gross unrecognized tax liabilities, including interest and penalties, of $51.3 million determined under accounting guidance for uncertain tax positions are not included in the commitment table due to uncertainty about the date of their settlement. Future capital expenditures for technology are anticipated as we continue to support our growth through investment in increased system capacity and performance and through technological initiatives on our electronic trading platforms. Each year capital expenditures are incurred for improvements to and expansion of our offices, remote data centers, telecommunications capabilities and other operating equipment. In 2010, we expect capital expenditures to total between $180 million and $200 million. We continue to monitor our capital needs and may revise our forecasted expenditures as necessary in the future. 77 We intend to continue to pay a regular quarterly dividend to our shareholders. The decision to pay a dividend, however, remains within the discretion of our board of directors and may be affected by various factors, including our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, levels of indebtedness and other considerations our board of directors deems relevant as well as our debt instruments as discussed below. CME Group and its subsidiaries are also required to comply with restrictions contained in the General Corporation Laws of its state of incorporation which could also limit its (or their) ability to declare and pay dividends. In 2009, our quarterly dividend remained at $1.15 per share. For 2010, our quarterly dividend target is expected to remain at this level. On February 2, 2010, the board of directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $1.15 per share payable on March 25, 2010, to shareholders of record on March 10, 2010. Assuming no changes in the number of shares outstanding, the 2010 dividend payment will total approximately $76.6 million. Sources and Uses of Cash. Net cash provided by operating activities was $1.1 billion in 2009 compared with $1.2 billion in 2008. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased due primarily to decreased profitability excluding impairment charges. In 2009, net cash provided by operating activities was $257.3 million higher than net income. This increase was due primarily to $126.3 million of depreciation and amortization and $125.1 million of amortization of purchased intangibles. Net cash provided by investing activities was $544.8 million in 2009 compared with net cash used in investing activities of $3.7 billion in 2008. The increase in cash was due primarily to cash paid to shareholders in our merger with NYMEX Holdings in 2008 of $2.8 billion, net of cash received, and a payment of $612.0 million for the termination of certain NYMEX membership rights in conjunction with the merger. The increase in cash was also due to a $315.8 million net decrease in NYMEX securities lending program investments and a $382.4 million increase in proceeds from maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases in 2009. Net cash used in financing activities was $1.7 billion in 2009 compared with cash provided by financing activities of $2.0 billion in 2008. The increase in cash used relative to the prior period was due primarily to new issuances of debt of $2.9 billion in 2008 in conjunction with our merger with NYMEX Holdings compared with net debt reductions of $900.1 million in 2009. Debt Instruments. We maintain public debt of $1.8 billion, consisting of $300.0 million of floating rate notes due in 2010, $750.0 million of 5.40% fixed rate notes due in 2013 and $750.0 million of 5.75% fixed rate notes due in 2014. The floating rate notes due in 2010 accrue interest at the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus 0.65%. We entered into an interest rate swap agreement that effectively fixed the rate at 3.92% for the floating rate notes due in 2010. The proceeds from the debt issuances were used to finance our merger with NYMEX Holdings and to repay any outstanding commercial paper borrowings that were backstopped by our 364 day revolving bridge facility as well as for general corporate purposes. We terminated the bridge facility on February 10, 2009. In August 2009, we repaid $250.0 million of floating rate notes upon their maturity. We also maintain a $1.4 billion senior credit facility with various financial institutions, which includes a term loan of $420.5 million and a revolving credit facility of $945.5 million. On September 30, 2009, we amended this agreement to reduce the aggregate amount of revolving credit facility commitments to $945.5 million from $995.5 million and to reduce the minimum required amount of each request for an increase in revolving commitments from $25.0 million to $10.0 million. As long as we are not in default under the senior credit facility, we have the option to increase the facility from time to time by an aggregate amount of up to $1.1 billion, to a total of $2.5 billion of revolving loans, with only the consent of the agent and the lenders providing the additional funds. Proceeds from the senior credit facility were used to pay fees and expenses and finance our merger with NYMEX Holdings; to pay fees and expenses in connection with the refinancing of existing debt of NYMEX Holdings; to finance dividends and stock repurchases, and to support issuances of commercial paper. The revolving credit facility expires on August 21, 2011. At December 31, 2009, we have excess borrowing capacity for general corporate purposes of approximately $845.5 million. 78 We maintain a 364 day revolving line of credit with a consortium of banks to be used in certain situations by our clearing house. The line of credit, which was renewed in December 2009, provides for borrowings of up to $1.0 billion. This line of credit is collateralized by clearing firm security deposits held by us in the form of U.S. Treasury or agency securities, as well as security deposit funds in the IEF and any performance bond deposits of a clearing firm that may default on its obligation. The line of credit can only be drawn on to the extent it is collateralized. At December 31, 2009, security deposit collateral available was $2.4 billion. We have the option to request an increase in the line from $1.0 billion to $1.5 billion with the participating banks approval. As of December 31, 2009, we maintained an AA long term credit rating and an A1+ short term credit rating with Standard & Poors (S&P). We maintained an Aa3 long term credit rating and a P1 short term credit rating with Moodys Investor Service. The outlook for our ratings is considered stable by S&P and Moodys. Given our ability to pay down debt levels and refinance existing debt facilities if necessary, we expect to maintain an investment grade rating. If our ratings are downgraded due to a change in control which results in a downgrade below investment grade, we are required to make an offer to repurchase our fixed and floating rate notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The indentures governing our floating and fixed rate notes, our 364 day revolving line of credit for $1.0 billion and our senior credit facility for $1.4 billion due 2011 do not contain specific covenants that restrict the ability to pay dividends. These documents, however, do contain other customary financial and operating covenants that place restrictions on the operations of the company, which could indirectly affect the ability to pay dividends. For example, under our senior credit facility, we are required to remain in compliance with a consolidated net worth test, defined as our consolidated shareholders equity as of June 30, 2008 on a pro forma basis to give effect to the NYMEX Holdings merger and to give effect to the share repurchases made and special dividends paid, but only up to the amount of such repurchases and dividends publicly announced and made or paid within 18 months after August 22, 2008 (and in no event greater than $1.5 billion in the aggregate for such repurchases and dividends), multiplied by 0.65. In addition, our 364 day revolving line of credit contains a requirement that CME remain in compliance with a consolidated tangible net worth test, defined as consolidated shareholders equity less intangible assets (as defined in the agreement), of not less than $125.0 million. In the event that CME elects to increase the facility, the minimum consolidated tangible net worth test will increase ratably up to $187.5 million. CME Group, as a holding company, has no operations of its own. Instead, it relies on dividends declared and paid to it by its subsidiaries, including CME, in order to provide a portion of the funds which it uses to pay dividends to its shareholders. As of December 31, 2009, we are in compliance with the various covenant requirements of all our debt facilities. To satisfy our performance bond obligation with Singapore Exchange Limited, we may pledge CME owned U.S. Treasury securities in lieu of, or in combination with, irrevocable letters of credit. At December 31, 2009, the letters of credit totaled $83.0 million. CME also guarantees a $5.0 million standby letter of credit for GFX. The beneficiary of this letter of credit is the clearing firm that is used by GFX to execute and maintain its futures position. The letter of credit would be utilized in the event that GFX defaults in meeting performance bond requirements to its clearing firm. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. As of December 31, 2009, we did not have any significant off balance sheet arrangements as defined by the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Liquidity and Cash Management. Cash and cash equivalents totaled $260.6 million at December 31, 2009 and $297.9 million at December 31, 2008. The balance retained in cash and cash equivalents is a function of 79 anticipated or possible short term cash needs, prevailing interest rates, our investment policy and alternative investment choices. In June 2008, we approved a repurchase of up to $1.1 billion of CME Group Class A common stock over a period of 18 months, which expired in December 2009. In January 2009, we suspended this program as we devoted our excess cash flows to debt reduction. Our practice is to have our pension plan 100% funded at each year end on a projected benefit obligation basis, while also satisfying any minimum required contribution and obtaining the maximum tax deduction. Based on our actuarial projections, we estimate that a $14.3 million contribution in 2010 will allow us to meet our funding goal. However, the amount of the actual contribution is contingent on the actual rate of return on our plan assets during 2010 and the December 31, 2010 discount rate. Net current deferred tax assets of $23.8 million and $95.5 million are included in other current assets at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. Total net current deferred tax assets include primarily unrealized losses and accrued expenses. Net long term deferred tax liabilities were $7.6 billion and $7.7 billion at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. Net deferred tax liabilities are primarily the result of purchase accounting for intangible assets in our mergers with CBOT Holdings and NYMEX Holdings. We have a long term deferred tax asset of $145.9 million included within our domestic long term deferred tax liability. This deferred tax asset is for an unrealized capital loss incurred in Brazil related to our investment in BM&FBOVESPA. As of December 31, 2009, we do not believe that we currently meet the more likely than not threshold that would allow us to fully realize the value of the unrealized capital loss. As a result, a partial valuation allowance of $64.5 million has been provided for the amount of the unrealized capital loss that exceeds potential capital gains that could be used to offset the capital loss in future periods. We also have a long term deferred tax asset related to Brazilian taxes of $127.1 million for an unrealized capital loss incurred in Brazil related to our investment in BM&FBOVESPA. A full valuation allowance of $127.1 million has been provided because we do not believe that we currently meet the more likely than not threshold that would allow us to realize the value of the unrealized capital loss in Brazil in the future. Valuation allowances of $51.6 million have also been provided for additional unrealized capital losses on various other investments. Net long term deferred tax assets also include a $21.2 million deferred tax asset for foreign net operating losses related to Swapstream. Our assessment at December 31, 2009 was that we did not currently meet the more likely than not threshold that would allow us to realize the value of acquired and accumulated foreign net operating losses in the future. As a result, the $21.2 million deferred tax assets arising from these net operating losses has been fully reserved. Each clearing firm is required to deposit and maintain a specified performance bond balance, which is determined by parameters established by the risk management department of the clearing house and may fluctuate over time. Performance bond requirements can be satisfied with a variety of approved investments and cash. Cash performance bonds and security deposits are included in our consolidated balance sheets. With the exception of the portion of securities deposited that are utilized in our securities lending program, clearing firm deposits, other than those retained in the form of cash, are not included in our consolidated balance sheets. Securities lending transactions utilize a portion of the securities that clearing firms have deposited to satisfy their proprietary performance bond requirements. Securities lending activity fluctuates based on the amount of securities that clearing firms have deposited and the demand for securities lending activity in the particular securities available to us. As a result of these factors, the balances in cash performance bonds and security deposits, as well as the balances in our securities lending program, may fluctuate significantly over time. The performance bonds and security deposits for NYMEX clearing firms have been included in total performance bonds and security deposits subsequent to the merger with NYMEX Holdings in August 2008. 80 Cash performance bonds and security deposits and collateral from securities lending consisted of the following at December 31: (in millions) 2009 2008 Cash performance bonds $ 5,834.6 $ 17,296.1 Cash security deposits 102.6 152.3 Cross margin arrangements 10.6 204.4 Performance collateral for delivery 34.1 0.7 Total Cash Performance Bonds and Security Deposits 5,981.9 17,653.5 Collateral from securities lending activity 426.9 Total $ 5,981.9 $ 18,080.4 We are required under the Commodity Exchange Act to segregate cash and securities deposited by clearing firms on behalf of customers. In addition, our exchange rules require a segregation of all funds and securities deposited by clearing firms from exchange operating funds and marketable securities. As with cash performance bonds and security deposits, these balances will fluctuate due to the investment choices available to clearing firms and the change in total deposits required. Securities, at fair value, and IEF funds were deposited for the following purposes at December 31: (in millions) 2009 2008 Performance bonds $ 70,511.5 $ 96,220.5 Security deposits 2,652.2 1,997.9 Cross margin arrangements 220.5 188.3 Performance collateral for delivery 2.6 3.6 Total $ 73,386.8 $ 98,410.3 Fair Value Measurements. We use a three level framework in order to determine the fair value of financial assets and liabilities. In general, we use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets to determine fair values of marketable securities, securities lending collateral and equity investments. Level 1 assets include U.S. Treasury securities, exchange traded mutual funds, repurchase agreements and publicly traded equity securities. If quoted prices are not available to determine fair value, we use other inputs that are observable either directly or indirectly. Assets included in level 2 consist primarily of U.S. Government agency securities, municipal bonds, asset backed securities and certain corporate bonds. Level 3 assets include certain corporate bonds and asset backed securities. These assets have been valued using valuation models with inputs that are both observable and unobservable. The unobservable inputs used in these models are significant to the fair value of the investments and require managements judgment. We determine the fair value of our interest rate swap contracts, considered level 2 assets, using standard valuation models that are based on market based observable inputs including forward and spot exchange rates and interest rate curves. The fair value of our liability for the guarantee of ERPs was derived using probability weighted Black Scholes option values for various scenarios. The liability is included in level 3 because management uses significant unobservable inputs including probability, expected return and volatility factors to determine its fair value. Financial assets and liabilities recorded in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2009 are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the asset or liabilitys fair value measurement. 81 Financial Instruments Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis: (in millions) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets at Fair Value: Marketable securities $ 28.5 $ 14.1 $ $ 42.6 Equity investments 66.2 66.2 Total Assets at Fair Value $ 94.7 $ 14.1 $ $ 108.8 Liabilities at Fair Value: Interest rate swap contracts $ $ 26.3 $ $ 26.3 Total Liabilities at Fair Value $ $ 26.3 $ $ 26.3 The following is a reconciliation of assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (level 3) during 2009. (in millions) Asset BackedSecurity(1) Guaranteeof CBOEERPLiability Fair value of asset (liability) at January 1, 2009 $ 1.5 $ (1.2 ) Realized and unrealized gains (losses): Included in non operating income (expense) 1.0 1.2 Settlements (2.5 ) Fair value of asset (liability) at December 31, 2009 $ $ Total unrealized gains (losses) related to financial assets and liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2009 $ $ (1) This asset backed security was transferred from the securities lending program investment portfolio to the marketable securities portfolio during June 2009. During 2009, we recorded an impairment on our investment in DME. The investment is considered an asset valued at fair value on a non recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (level 3). The following is a reconciliation of the asset: (in millions) Investmentin DME Fair value of the asset at January 1, 2009 $ Transfers into level 3 29.9 Realized and unrealized gains (losses): Included in non operating income (expense) (23.6 ) Fair value of the asset at December 31, 2009 $ 6.3 Total unrealized gains (losses) related to financial assets and liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2009 $ 82 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We are subject to various market risks, including those caused by changes in interest rates, credit, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity prices. Interest Rate Risk Debt outstanding at December 31, 2009 consisted of fixed rate borrowings of $1.6 billion and variable rate borrowings of $0.7 billion. Commercial paper is included in fixed rate borrowings; however, because maturities for commercial paper are generally less than 90 days, commercial paper is considered subject to interest rate fluctuations. Borrowings subject to variable interest rate fluctuations were as follows as of December 31, 2009: (dollars in millions) Balance StatedInterest Rate Commercial paper $ 100.0 0.24 % Floating rate notes due August 2010(1) 299.8 0.93 Term loan due August 2011(2) 420.5 1.29 Total debt subject to variable interest fluctuations $ 820.3 (1) The 2010 notes bear interest at a floating rate equal to three month LIBOR plus 0.65% per year. In September 2008, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that modifies the variable interest obligation associated with these notes so that the interest payable on the notes effectively becomes fixed at a rate of 3.92% beginning with the interest accrued after November 6, 2008. (2) The term loan bears interest at a floating rate equal to three month LIBOR plus 1.00% per year. In September 2008, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement that modifies the variable interest obligation associated with this facility so that the interest payable effectively becomes fixed at a rate of 4.72% beginning with the interest accrued after October 22, 2008. Credit Risk Our clearing house acts as the counterparty to all trades consummated on or through our exchange as well as through third party exchanges and over the counter markets for which we provide clearing services. As a result, we are exposed to significant credit risk of third parties, including our clearing firms. We are also exposed, indirectly, to the credit risk of customers of our clearing firms. These parties may default on their obligations due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. In order to ensure performance, we establish and monitor financial requirements for our clearing firms. We set minimum performance bond requirements for our traded products. We typically hold performance bond collateral to cover at least 95% of price changes for a given product within a given historical period. Our clearing house marks to market all open positions at least twice a day, and more often if market volatility warrants; providing both participants in a transaction with an accounting of their financial obligations under the contract. This allows our clearing house to identify quickly any clearing firms that may not be able to satisfy the financial obligations resulting from changes in the prices of their open contracts before those financial obligations become exceptionally large and jeopardize the ability of our clearing house to ensure performance of their open positions. This transparency makes it difficult for traders to hide losses or disguise unusual profits. In select circumstances where CME has introduced clearing services to newer markets, positions are marked to market daily, with the capability to mark to market more frequently as market conditions warrant. Although we have policies and procedures to help ensure that our clearing firms can satisfy their obligations, these policies and procedures may not succeed in detecting problems or preventing defaults. We also have in place various measures intended to enable us to cover any default and maintain liquidity. In the unlikely event of 83 a payment default by a clearing firm, we would first apply assets of that clearing firm to cover its payment obligation. These assets include security deposits, performance bonds and any other available assets, such as proceeds from the sale of Class A common stock and trading rights (at CME, CBOT, NYMEX and or COMEX as applicable) owned by or assigned to the clearing firm. In addition, we would make a demand for payment pursuant to any applicable guarantee provided to the exchange by the parent of a clearing firm. Thereafter, if the payment default remains unsatisfied, we would use our surplus funds, security deposits of other clearing firms and funds collected through an assessment against all other solvent clearing firms to satisfy the deficit. We maintain a $1.0 billion 364 day revolving line of credit with a consortium of banks. We have the option to increase the facility from $1.0 billion to $1.5 billion, subject to approval by the participating banks. We are required to post additional collateral in connection with any such increase. This line of credit may also be utilized if there is a temporary disruption with the domestic payments system that would delay settlement payments between our clearing house and clearing firms. The credit agreement requires us to pledge clearing firm security deposits held by us in the form of U.S. Treasury or agency securities, as well as security deposit funds in our IEF program to the line of credit custodian prior to drawing on the line. Performance bond collateral of a defaulting clearing firm may also be used to secure a draw on the line. The following shows the available assets of our clearing house at December 31, 2009 in the event of a payment default by a clearing firm: (in millions) CME Clearing HouseAvailable Assets Aggregate Performance Bond Deposits by All Clearing Firms(1) $ 76,346.1 CME Surplus Funds(2) 354.6 Security Deposits of Clearing Firms(3) 2,375.8 Limited Assessment Powers(4) 6,533.4 Minimum Total Assets Available for Default(5) $ 9,263.8 (1) Aggregate performance bond deposits by all clearing firms includes cash performance bond deposits of $5.8 billion and the market value of the securities deposited to satisfy performance bond requirements. In the event of a default, we also have the ability to use the Class A shares and membership shares pledged by members. (2) CME surplus funds represent the amount of CMEs working capital reduced by an amount necessary to support CMEs short term operations. Our target for surplus funds is $100.0 million with amounts in excess of this target generally paid as a dividend from CME to CME Group on a quarterly basis based on prior quarter end balances. (3) Security deposits of clearing firms include security deposits required of clearing firms, but do not include any excess deposits held by our exchange at the direction of the clearing firms. (4) In the event of a clearing firm default, if a loss continues to exist after the utilization of the assets of the defaulted firm, our surplus funds and the security deposits of non defaulting firms, we have the right to assess all non defaulting clearing members up to 2.75 times their existing security deposit requirements. (5) Represents the aggregate minimum resources available to satisfy any obligations not met by a defaulting firm able to clear CME, CBOT, NYMEX and COMEX products subsequent to the liquidation of the defaulting firms performance bond collateral. Despite these safeguards, we cannot assure you that these measures will be sufficient to protect us from a default or that we will not be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Although our foreign operations have expanded as a result of recent business combinations, our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk resulting from ongoing foreign operations is not expected to be material to our financial condition or operating results. We are also exposed to foreign exchange rate risk related to the equity investments noted under Equity Price Risk. Any foreign currency exchange rate risk related to these investments is reflected in the Equity Price Risk section below. 84 Equity Price Risk We hold certain investments in equity securities for strategic purposes. Investments subject to equity price risks are generally recorded as available for sale at their fair value. Equity securities whose sale is restricted for greater than 12 months are carried at original cost, net of impairment charges, until the restriction is within 12 months of expiration at which time they are recorded at fair value. Fair values for publicly traded equity investments are based on quoted market prices. Fair values are subject to fluctuation and, consequently, the amount realized in the subsequent sale of an investment may differ significantly from its current reported value. Fluctuation in the market price of a security may result from perceived changes in the underlying economic characteristics of the issuer, the relative price of alternative investments and general market conditions. The table below summarizes our equity investments at December 31, 2009. Equity investments are included in other assets in our consolidated balance sheets. (dollars in millions) CostBasis FairValue CarryingValue UnrealizedGain (Loss),Net of Tax BM&FBOVESPA S.A. $ 262.9 $ 710.8 $ 262.9 $ 270.5 (1) TMX Group Inc. 46.0 44.4 44.4 (1.0 ) IMAREX ASA 19.0 (2) 21.8 21.8 1.7 (1) In February 2008, we exchanged 1.2 million shares of CME Group Class A common stock for 101.1 million shares in BM&FBOVESPA. The company may not sell its shares in BM&FBOVESPA for four years after the purchase date. As a result, BM&FBOVESPA stock is reported in other assets at original cost less impairment loss until within 12 months of the restriction lapsing, after which time the stock will be accounted for as an available for sale security. The unrealized gain is currently not recorded. In addition, the unrealized gain does not take into account an unrealized loss of $81.7 million, net of tax, resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which has been recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) upon recognizing impairment on the investment in December 2008. (2) During the third quarter of 2009, the company recorded an other than temporary impairment on its investment in IMAREX ASA. This resulted in an impairment charge of $22.4 million, which reduced our cost basis from $41.4 million to $19.0 million. We do not currently hedge against equity price risk. Equity investments are assessed for other than temporary impairment on a quarterly basis. An assessment of whether an equity investment is other than temporarily impaired takes into consideration the magnitude and duration of the unrealized loss. At December 31, 2009, we determined that none of the equity investments listed above were other than temporarily impaired. 85 
 
