ITEM 7.MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONSINTRODUCTIONManagements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is organized as follows:Overview: Includes a discussion of our business structure; current economic and industry wide trends relevant to our business; our current business strategy; and our primary sources of operating and non operating revenues and expenses.Critical Accounting Policies: Provides an explanation of accounting policies which may have a significant impact on our financial results and the estimates, assumptions and risks associated with those policies.Recent Accounting Pronouncements: Includes an evaluation of recent accounting pronouncements and the potential impact of their future adoption on our financial results.Results of Operations: Includes a discussion of our 2011, 2010 and 2009 financial results and any known events or trends which are likely to impact future results.Liquidity and Capital Resources: Includes a discussion of our future cash requirements, capital resources, significant planned expenditures and financing arrangements.On March 18, 2010, Board of Trade of the City of Chicago, Inc. (CBOT) acquired a 90% ownership interest in CME Group Index Services LLC (Index Services), a joint venture with Dow Jones & Company (Dow Jones). The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations includes the financial results of Index Services beginning March 19, 2010. References in this discussion and analysis to we and our are to CME Group Inc. (CME Group) and its consolidated subsidiaries, collectively. References to exchange are to Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. (CME), CBOT and New York Mercantile Exchange, Inc. (NYMEX), collectively. OVERVIEWBusiness StructureCME Group, a Delaware stock corporation, is the holding company for CME, CBOT, NYMEX and their respective subsidiaries. The holding company structure is designed to provide strategic and operational flexibility. CME Group also includes two clearing houses CME Clearing, a division of CME, and CME Clearing Europe Limited (CMECE). CME Groups Class A common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (NASDAQ) under the ticker symbol CME. Our exchange consists of designated contract markets for the trading of futures and options on futures contracts. We also clear futures, options on futures and over the counter contracts. Futures contracts and options on futures contracts provide investors with vehicles for protecting against, and potentially profiting from, price changes in financial instruments and physical commodities. We are a global exchange with customer access available virtually all over the world. Our customers consist of professional traders, financial institutions, individual and institutional investors, major corporations, manufacturers, producers and governments. Customers include both members of the exchange and non members. We offer our customers the opportunity to trade futures contracts and options on futures contracts on a range of products including those based on interest rates, equities, foreign exchange, agricultural commodities, energy, and metals. We also clear over the counter contracts on a range of product lines including interest rate swaps, credit default swaps, energy and agricultural commodities. Our products provide a means for hedging, speculating and allocating assets. We identify new products by monitoring economic trends and their impact on the risk management and speculative needs of our existing and prospective customers. Our major product lines are traded through our electronic trading platform and our open outcry trading floors. These execution facilities offer our customers immediate trade execution and price transparency. In addition, trades can be executed through privately negotiated transactions that are cleared and settled through our CME clearing house. Our clearing houses clear, settle and guarantee every futures and options contract traded through our exchanges, in addition to cleared over the counter products, including credit default swaps and interest rate swaps. Our clearing house performance guarantee is an important function of our business. Because of this guarantee, our customers do not need to evaluate the credit of each potential counterparty or limit themselves to a selected set of counterparties. This flexibility increases the potential liquidity available for each trade. Additionally, the substitution of our clearing houses as the counterparty to every transaction allows our customers to establish a position with one party and then to offset the position with another party. This contract 33Table of Contentsoffsetting process provides our customers with flexibility in establishing and adjusting positions and provides for performance bond efficiencies. To ensure performance of counterparties, we establish and monitor financial requirements of our clearing firms. We also establish minimum performance bond requirements for our exchange traded products and over the counter products. For CME and CMECE clearing firms, we mark to market all open positions at least twice a day and require payment from clearing firms whose positions have lost value and make payments to clearing firms whose positions have gained value. For select cleared only markets, positions are marked to market daily, with the capability to mark to market more frequently as market conditions warrant. We maintain three separate financial safeguard packages for CME clearing firms: one for futures and options, one for cleared over the counter credit default swap contracts, and one for cleared over the counter interest rate swap contracts. In the unlikely event of a payment default by a clearing firm, we would first apply any assets of the defaulting clearing firm deposited with CME to satisfy its payment obligation. These assets include the defaulting firms guaranty fund contributions, performance bonds and any other available assets, such as assets required for membership and any associated trading rights. In addition, we would make a demand for payment pursuant to any applicable guarantee provided to the exchange by the parent company of the clearing firm. Thereafter, if the payment default remains unsatisfied, we would use our surplus funds for futures and options contracts, or our designated working capital for cleared over the counter credit default swap contracts and cleared over the counter interest rate swap contracts. We would then use guaranty fund contributions of other clearing firms within the respective financial safeguard package and funds collected through an assessment against solvent clearing firms within the respective financial safeguard package to satisfy the deficit. Surplus funds represent the amount of CME working capital reduced by an amount necessary to support normal operations and amounts designated by CME for our credit default swap and interest rate swap financial safeguard packages. We maintain a separate financial safeguard package for CMECE clearing firms. In the unlikely event of a payment default by a CMECE clearing firm, we would first apply assets of the defaulting clearing firm to satisfy its payment obligation. These assets include the defaulting firms performance bonds. Thereafter, if the payment default remains unsatisfied, we would use $60.0 million of CMECE funds. As of December 31, 2011, the guaranty fund contributions were contributed by CMECE. In 2012, the CMECE clearing firms may be asked to contribute to the CMECE guaranty fund and the size of the fund will be reviewed in light of the actual risk exposure. Once the CMECE clearing firms contribute to the guaranty fund, we would use at least $20.0 million of CMECE funds in the event of a default.Industry TrendsEconomic Environment. Our customers continue to use our markets as an effective and transparent means to manage risk and meet their investment needs despite recent economic uncertainty and volatility. In recent years, trading activity in our centralized markets has fluctuated due to the ongoing uncertainty in the financial markets caused by the United States and European credit crisis, fluctuations in the availability of credit, variations in the amount of assets under management as well as the Federal Reserve Banks continued zero interest rate policy. We continue to maintain high quality and diverse products as well as various clearing and market data services which support our customers in any economic environment. Competitive Environment. Our industry is highly competitive and we continue to encounter competition in all aspects of our business. We expect competition to continue to intensify, especially in light of recent regulatory reforms in the financial services industry. Competition is influenced by liquidity and transparency of the markets, variability in fee structures, breadth of product offerings including quality of new product development as well as efficient and innovative technology. We now face competition from other futures, securities and securities option exchanges; over the counter markets; clearing organizations; consortia formed by our members and large market participants; alternative trade execution facilities; technology firms, including market data distributors and electronic trading system developers, and others. As the market continues to evolve, we have worked to adapt our trading technology and clearing services to meet the needs of our customers. Regulatory Environment. Our operations as a derivatives exchange have historically been subject to extensive regulation. As a result of the widespread difficulties across the economy over recent years, the Dodd Frank Act was signed into law in July 2010. The Dodd Frank Act is a comprehensive banking and financial services reform package that includes significant changes to the oversight of the derivatives markets, both over the counter and exchange traded. While we believe that the new regulations will provide opportunities for our business, the new regulations are subject to extensive rulemaking by various regulators. To the extent the regulatory environment following the implementation of the new legislation and other financial reform regulations is less beneficial for us or our customers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be negatively affected. We continue to actively participate in the rulemaking process with the goal that the final regulations serve the public interest, foster competition and innovation and do not place the U.S. financial services sector at a competitive disadvantage. The financial services industry in Europe is also undergoing similar regulatory reform, which could result in 34Table of Contentsadditional regulation over our European operations. Business StrategyOur strategy focuses on leveraging our benchmark products, enhancing our customer relations, expanding our customer base, advancing our clearing and trading technologies, and deriving benefits from our integrated clearing houses as well as our scalable infrastructure. We specifically focus our strategy on capitalizing on opportunities created by increased market awareness and acceptance of derivatives, increased price volatility, technological advances and the increasing need for counterparty risk mitigation and clearing services. This strategy allows us to continue to develop into a more broadly diversified financial exchange that provides trading and clearing solutions across a wide range of products and asset classes. We believe that we can build on our competitive strengths by implementing the following strategies:Grow our core business by launching new products, expanding our existing benchmark product lines as well as improving our customer relations in order to cross sell our products;Globalize our business by expanding and diversifying our worldwide customer base through strategic investments and relationships with other key exchanges around the world, including Asia, Latin America and other emerging markets, which allows us to accelerate our market penetration and improve product sales channels;Provide superior customer service, education and sales support to our customers by restructuring our global client development and sales organization to better target cross asset sales across customer segments, drive international sales and generate new client participation across all regions throughout the world;Offer a comprehensive multi asset class clearing solution to the over the counter market that maximizes operational efficiency, as well as expand our over the counter product offerings; andEstablish ourselves as the leading exchange company provider of information products and index services, which would allow us to create additional cross listing opportunities and new opportunities for index creation. It will also allow us to create opportunities for licensing across the global market as well as expanding market data dissemination services to our global network of clients and exchange partners.Primary Sources of RevenueClearing and transaction fees. A majority of our revenue is derived from clearing and transaction fees, which include electronic trading fees, surcharges for privately negotiated transactions and other volume related charges for contracts executed through our trading venues. Because clearing and transaction fees are assessed on a per contract basis, revenues and profitability fluctuate with changes in trading volume. In addition to the industry trends noted earlier, our trading volume and consequently our revenues tend to increase during periods of economic and geopolitical uncertainty as our customers seek to manage their exposure to, or speculate on, the market volatility resulting from uncertainty. While volume has the most significant impact on our clearing and transaction fees revenue, there are four other factors that also influence this source of revenues: rate structure;product mix;venue, andthe percentage of trades executed by customers who are members compared with non member customers.Rate structure. Customers benefit from volume discounts and limits on fees as part of our effort to increase liquidity in certain products. We offer various incentive programs to promote trading in various products and geographic locations. We may periodically change fees, volume discounts, limits on fees and member discounts, perhaps significantly, based on our review of operations and the business environment. Product mix. We offer trading of futures and options on futures contracts as well as cleared only swap contracts on a wide ranging set of products based on interest rates, equities, foreign exchange, agricultural commodities, energy and metals. Rates are varied by product in order to optimize revenue on existing products and to encourage trading volume upon introduction of new products. Venue. Our exchange is an international marketplace that brings together buyers and sellers mainly through our electronic trading platform as well as through open outcry trading on our trading floors, privately negotiated transactions and CME ClearPort. Any customer who is guaranteed by a clearing firm and who agrees to be bound by our exchange rules is able to obtain direct access to our electronic platform and CME ClearPort. Open outcry trading is conducted exclusively by our members, who may execute trades on behalf of customers or for themselves. 35Table of ContentsTypically, customers executing trades through our electronic platform are charged fees for using the platform in addition to the fees assessed on all transactions executed on our exchange. Customers entering into privately negotiated transactions also incur additional charges beyond the fees assessed on all transactions. Privately negotiated transactions include block trades, which are large transactions that are executed between selected parties off the public auction market on CME Globex or the trading floor. ClearPort provides for the clearing of OTC futures and options trades executed off exchange. In addition to clearing fees, there are other assessments on ClearPort transactions. Member/non member mix. Generally, member customers are charged lower fees than our non member customers. Holding all other factors constant, revenue decreases if the percentage of trades executed by members increases, and increases if the percentage of non member trades increases. Other sources. Revenue is also derived from other sources including market data and information services, access and communication fees and various services related to our exchange and building operations. Market data and information services. We receive market data and information services revenue from the dissemination of our market data to subscribers. Subscribers can obtain access to our market data services either directly or through third party distributors. Our service offerings include access to real time, delayed and end of day quotation, trade and summary market data for our products and other data sources. Users of our basic service receive real time quotes and pay a flat monthly fee for each screen, or device, displaying our market data. Alternatively, customers can subscribe to market data provided on a limited group of products. The fee for this service is also a flat rate per month.Pricing for our market data services is based on the value of the service provided, our cost structure for the service and the price of comparable services offered by our competitors. Increases or decreases in our market data and information services revenue are influenced by changes in our price structure for existing market data offerings, introduction of new market data services and changes in the number of devices in use. General economic factors that affect the financial services industry, which constitutes our primary customer base, also influence revenue from our market data services. On March 18, 2010, CBOT and Dow Jones entered into an agreement to form Index Services. Index Services was formed through the contribution of CBOTs market data business and Dow Jones index business. Index Services generates market data and information services revenue through licensing of its trademark indexes as well as through calculation and distribution of its market data. Access and communication fees. Access and communication fees are the connectivity charges to customers of the CME Globex platform to our market data vendors and to direct market data customers as well as charges to members and clearing firms that utilize our various telecommunications networks and communications services, including our co location initiative, which was launched in January 2012. Access fee revenue varies depending on the type of connection provided to customers. Revenue from communication fees is dependent on open outcry trading, as a significant portion relates to telecommunications on our trading floors. Other revenues. Other revenues include rent charged to third party tenants as well as ancillary charges for utilities, parking and miscellaneous services provided to tenants. We maintain three commercial buildings in Chicagos central business district. We rent retail and office space to third party tenants, including exchange customers. We also maintain office space in New York City that is rented to third party tenants, including exchange customers. All tenants pay market rates for rent. Revenues related to our real estate operations are generally affected by market rental rates, lease renewals and business conditions in the financial services industry in which most of our tenants operate. In June 2011, we announced that we are pursuing a sale and partial leaseback of the north and south buildings of CBOT. If the sale is completed, other revenues from rent will decrease. To further diversify the range of services we offer, we have entered into processing and development agreements with other exchanges and service organizations. For example, in 2010, we entered into an agreement with BM&FBOVESPA S.A (BM&FBOVESPA) to develop a new multi asset class electronic trading platform for their customers. We recognize revenue under this agreement as services are provided and when developed technology is delivered. Additionally, other revenues include fees for administrating our Interest Earning Facility (IEF) program, trade order routing, and various services to members and clearing firms. We offer clearing firms the opportunity to invest cash performance bonds in our various IEF offerings. These clearing firms receive interest income, and we receive a fee based on total funds on deposit. In addition, other revenues include trading gains and losses generated by GFX Corporation (GFX), our wholly owned subsidiary that trades futures contracts to enhance liquidity in our electronic markets for these products. Other revenues also include gains on sales from various investments.Primary ExpensesThe majority of our expenses do not vary directly with changes in our trading volume. Licensing and other fee agreements and the majority of our employee bonuses do vary directly with trading volume. 36Table of ContentsCompensation and benefits. Compensation and benefits expense is our most significant expense and includes employee wages, bonuses, stock based compensation, benefits and employer taxes. Changes in this expense are driven by fluctuations in the number of employees, increases in wages as a result of inflation or labor market conditions, changes in rates for employer taxes and other cost increases affecting benefit plans. In addition, this expense is affected by the composition of our work force. The expense associated with our bonus and stock based compensation plans can also have a significant impact on this expense category and may vary from year to year. The bonus component of our compensation and benefits expense is based on our financial performance. Under the performance criteria of our annual incentive plans, the bonus funded under the plans is based on achieving certain financial performance targets established by the compensation committee of our board of directors. The compensation committee may adjust the target level of performance for material, unplanned operating results or capital expenditures to meet intermediate to long term growth opportunities. Stock based compensation is a non cash expense related to stock options, restricted stock and performance share grants. Stock based compensation varies depending on the quantity and fair value of awards granted. The fair value of options is derived using the Black Scholes model with assumptions about our dividend yield, the expected volatility of our stock price based on an analysis of implied and historical volatility, the risk free interest rate and the expected life of the options granted. The fair value of other awards is based on either the share price on the date of the grant or a model of expected future stock prices. Amortization of purchased intangibles. This expense includes amortization of intangible assets obtained in our mergers with CBOT Holdings and NYMEX Holdings as well as other asset and business acquisitions. Intangible assets subject to amortization consist primarily of customer relationships, licensing agreements and lease related intangible assets. Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense results from the depreciation of long lived assets purchased, as well as the amortization of purchased and internally developed software. Professional fees and outside services. This expense includes costs of consulting services provided for strategic and technology initiatives as well as legal and accounting fees. This expense may fluctuate as a result of changes in services required to complete initiatives and legal proceedings.Other expenses. We incur additional ongoing expenses for communications, technology support services and various other activities necessary to support our operations. Communications expense includes costs for network connections to our electronic trading platform and some market data customers; telecommunications costs of our exchange; and fees paid for access to external market data. This expense may be impacted by growth in electronic trading, our capacity requirements and changes in the number of telecommunications hubs and connections which allow customers outside the United States access to our electronic trading platform directly. Technology support services consist of costs related to maintenance of the hardware and software required to support our technology. Our technology support services costs are driven by system capacity, functionality and redundancy requirements. Occupancy and building operations expense consists of costs related to leased and owned property including rent, maintenance, real estate taxes, utilities and other related costs. We have significant operations located in Chicago and New York City with smaller offices located throughout Europe, North and South America, the Middle East and Asia. Additionally, we have trading facilities in Chicago and New York City as well as data centers in various U.S. locations. In June 2011, we announced that we are pursuing a sale and partial leaseback of the north and south buildings of CBOT. If the sale is completed, occupancy and building operations expense will decrease. Licensing and other fee agreements expense includes license fees paid as a result of trading volume in equity index products, and royalty and broker rebates on energy and metals products. This expense fluctuates with changes in equity index product volume as well as CME ClearPort volumes and fee structure changes in the agreements. Other expenses include marketing and travel related as well as general and administrative costs. Marketing, advertising and public relations expense includes media, print and other advertising costs, as well as costs associated with our product promotion. Other expenses also include litigation and customer settlements as well as impairment of operational assets and restructuring expense resulting from our mergers with CBOT Holdings and NYMEX Holdings.Non Operating Income and ExpensesIncome and expenses incurred through activities outside of our core operations are considered non operating. These activities include investments in debt and equity securities for operational and strategic purposes and financing activities. Investment income represents income generated by short term investment of excess cash, clearing firms cash performance bonds and guaranty fund contributions; income and net realized gains and losses from our marketable 37Table of Contentssecurities; gains and losses on trading securities in our non qualified deferred compensation plans and dividend income from our strategic investments. Investment income is influenced by the availability of funds generated by operations, market interest rates, changes in the levels of cash performance bonds deposited by clearing firms as well as the amount of dividends distributed from our strategic investments. We have used derivative financial instruments for the purpose of hedging exposures to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Any ineffective or excluded portion of our hedges is recognized in earnings immediately. Interest and other borrowing costs are associated with various short term and long term funding facilities. We maintain a commercial paper program with various financial institutions. In early 2009, we refinanced part of the debt that was previously issued for the NYMEX Holdings merger. In conjunction with its formation, Index Services issued long term debt in March 2010. Our debt is fixed rate debt, but debt related costs fluctuate with the funding needs of our business as our debt levels change. Income related to our guarantee of exercise right privileges (ERPs) was a result of our merger with CBOT Holdings. Under the terms of the merger agreement, eligible holders of Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) ERPs could elect to sell us their ERP for $250,000 per privilege. Eligible holders that did not elect to sell their ERPs were entitled to a maximum guaranteed payment of $250,000 from us upon resolution of the lawsuit between CBOT and CBOE. This income represented the change in estimated fair value of our guarantee during the period, which was based in part on the expected outcome of the litigation. This litigation was resolved in December 2009. Equity in net losses of unconsolidated subsidiaries includes income and losses from our investments in Dubai Mercantile Exchange, Green Exchange Holdings, LLC, Bursa Malaysia Derivatives Berhad and OneChicago LLC (OneChicago).Other income (expense) includes income and expenses related to our securities lending program. CMEs securities lending program has been suspended since 2008. NYMEXs securities lending program was terminated in June 2009. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIESThe notes to our consolidated financial statements include disclosure of our significant accounting policies. In establishing these policies within the framework of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, management must make certain assessments, estimates and choices that will result in the application of these principles in a manner that appropriately reflects our financial condition and results of operations. Critical accounting policies are those policies that we believe present the most complex or subjective measurements and have the most potential to affect our financial position and operating results. While all decisions regarding accounting policies are important, there are certain accounting policies that we consider to be critical. These critical policies, which are presented in detail in the notes to our consolidated financial statements, relate to valuation of financial instruments, goodwill and intangible assets, derivative instruments, revenue recognition, income taxes, and internal use software costs. Valuation of financial instruments. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, or an exit price. A hierarchy exists for inputs used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that the observable inputs be used when available. Observable inputs are inputs that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability based on market data obtained from independent sources. Unobservable inputs are inputs that reflect our judgments about the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on the best information available in the circumstances. We have categorized financial instruments measured at fair value into a three level classification hierarchy. Classification is based on the reliability of inputs as follows: Level 1Inputs are unadjusted, quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities at the measurement date. Assets and liabilities carried at level 1 fair value generally include U.S. Treasury and Government agency securities, equity securities listed in active markets, and investments in publicly traded mutual funds with quoted market prices.Level 2Inputs are either directly or indirectly observable and corroborated by market data or are based on quoted prices in markets that are not active. Assets and liabilities carried at level 2 fair value generally include municipal bonds, corporate debt and certain derivatives.Level 3Inputs are unobservable and reflect managements best estimate of what market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Generally assets and liabilities at fair value utilizing level 3 inputs include certain other assets and liabilities with inputs that require managements judgment.For further discussion regarding the fair value of financial assets and liabilities, see note 20 in the notes to the consolidated 38Table of Contentsfinancial statements. Goodwill and intangible assets. We review goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment on an annual basis and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is assessed for impairment using a two step test. In the first step, the fair value of each reporting unit is compared to its carrying amount. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying amount, no impairment exists and we are not required to perform further testing. If the carrying amount exceeds its fair value, the second step must be performed to determine the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill. If the carrying value of the reporting units goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then an impairment loss is recorded in an amount equal to that excess. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Valuation techniques we use to measure fair value include the market approach and the income approach. The market approach encompasses comparable data sets within our peer group, and the income approach includes discounted cash flow measurements using a market discount rate. Our valuation techniques could yield variable results based on changes in assumptions such as the discount rate and long term growth rate and forecasted revenue and expense. In the third quarter of 2011, the company adopted newly issued guidance on goodwill impairment testing. The guidance permits companies to perform a qualitative impairment assessment of goodwill that may allow them to omit the annual two step quantitative test. Indefinite lived intangible assets are assessed for impairment by comparing their fair values to their carrying values. If the carrying value of an indefinite lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the difference. The estimate of the fair value of all intangible assets is generally determined on the basis of discounted future cash flows. In estimating the fair value, management must make assumptions and projections regarding such items as the discount rate, long term growth rate, forecasted revenue and expenses, and other factors. Such assumptions are subject to change as a result of changing economic and competitive conditions. Intangible assets subject to amortization are also evaluated for impairment when indicated by a change in economic or operational circumstances. The impairment testing requires management to first compare the book value of the amortizing asset to undiscounted cash flows. If the book value exceeds the undiscounted cash flows, management is then required to estimate the fair value of the assets and record an impairment loss for the excess of the carrying value over the fair value. Derivative investments. We use derivative financial instruments for the purpose of hedging exposures to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. Derivatives are recorded at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets. Changes in our derivatives fair values are recognized in earnings unless the instruments are accounted for as cash flow hedges. For a derivative designated as a fair value hedge, any gain or loss on the derivative is recognized in earnings in the period of change, to the extent the hedge is effective, together with the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the risk being hedged. We record the effective portions of our derivative financial instruments that are designated as cash flow hedges in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. In the period during which the hedged item affects earnings, the gain or loss included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) is transferred to the same line in the consolidated statements of income as the hedged item. Any ineffective or excluded portion of a hedge is recognized in earnings immediately. Any realized gains and losses from effective hedges are classified in the consolidated statements of income consistent with the accounting treatment of the items being hedged.Revenue recognition. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from the clearing and transaction fees we assess on each contract executed through our trading venues and cleared through our clearing houses. Clearing and transaction fees are recognized as revenue when a buy and sell order are matched and when the trade is cleared. On occasion, the customers exchange trading privileges may not be properly entered by the clearing firm and incorrect fees are charged for the transactions in the affected accounts. When this information is corrected within the time period allowed by the exchange, a fee adjustment is provided to the clearing firm. An accrual is established for estimated fee adjustments to reflect corrections to customer exchange trading privileges. The accrual is based on the historical pattern of adjustments processed as well as specific adjustment requests. Occasionally market data customers will pay for services in a lump sum payment. When these circumstances occur, revenue is recognized as services are provided. Income taxes. Calculation of the income tax provision includes an estimate of the income taxes that will be paid for the current year as well as an estimate of income tax liabilities or benefits deferred into future years. Deferred tax assets are reviewed to determine if they will be realized in future periods. To the extent it is determined that some deferred tax assets may not be fully realized, the assets are reduced to their realizable value by a valuation allowance. The calculation of our tax provision involves uncertainty in the application of complex tax regulations. We recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the United States and other applicable foreign tax jurisdictions using a more likely than not recognition threshold based on the technical merits of the tax position taken or expected to be taken. If payment of these amounts varies from our estimate, our income tax provision would be reduced or increased at the time that determination is made. This determination may not be known for several years. Past tax audits have not resulted in tax adjustments that would result in a material change to the income tax provision in the year the audit was completed. The effective tax rate, defined as the income tax provision as a 39Table of Contentspercentage of income before income taxes, will vary from year to year based on changes in tax jurisdictions, tax rates and regulations. In addition, the effective tax rate will vary with changes to income that are not subject to income tax, such as municipal interest income, and changes in expenses or losses that are not deductible, such as the utilization of foreign net operating losses. Internal use software costs. Certain costs for employees and consultants that are incurred in connection with work on development or implementation of software for our internal use are capitalized. Costs are capitalized for software projects that will result in significant new functionality and are generally expected to cost in excess of $0.5 million. The amount capitalized is determined based on the time spent by the individuals completing the eligible software related activity and the compensation and benefits or consulting fees incurred for these activities. Projects are monitored during the development cycle to assure that they continue to meet the capitalization criteria and that the project will be completed and placed in service as intended. Any previously capitalized costs are expensed at the time a decision is made to abandon a software project. Completed internal use software projects, as well as work in progress projects, are included as part of property in the consolidated balance sheets. Once complete, the accumulated costs for a particular software project are amortized over the anticipated life of the software, generally three years. Costs capitalized for internal use software will vary from year to year based on our technology related business requirements.RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTSIn May 2011, Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued an Accounting Standards Update (ASU) for Fair Value Measurement. The ASU provides clarity on existing fair value measurement and disclosure requirements, and is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011, with no early adoption permitted. We will adopt the disclosure requirements once the guidance becomes effective. In June 2011, FASB issued an ASU for Presentation of Comprehensive Income. The ASU requires entities to report components of comprehensive income in either a continuous statement of comprehensive income or two separate but consecutive statements, and to present reclassification adjustments out of accumulated other comprehensive income by component in the income statement and in the other comprehensive income statement. The ASU is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. In December 2011, FASB issued an ASU that indefinitely deferred the reclassification adjustments presentation. We will adopt the disclosure requirements once the guidance becomes effective. In December 2011, FASB issued an ASU for Balance Sheet Offsetting Disclosure Requirements. The ASU requires entities to disclose both gross and net information about instruments and transactions eligible for offset in the financial statements, as well as instruments and transactions subject to an agreement similar to a master netting arrangement. The ASU is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013, and interim periods therein, with retrospective application required. We will adopt the disclosure requirements once the guidance becomes effective. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS2011 Financial HighlightsThe comparability of our operating results for the periods presented is impacted by the formation of Index Services in March 2010. The following summarizes significant changes in our financial performance for the years presented. Year over Year Change(dollars in millions, except per share data) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2010 2009Total revenues $3,280.6 $3,003.7 $2,612.8 9 % 15 %Total expenses 1,259.5 1,172.6 1,023.7 7 15Operating margin 62% 61% 61% Non operating income (expense) $(84.6) $(109.2) $(151.6) (22) (28)Effective tax rate 6% 45% 43% Net income attributable to CME Group $1,812.3 $951.4 $825.8 90 15Diluted earnings per common share attributable to CME Group 27.15 14.31 12.41 90 15Cash flows from operating activities 1,346.3 1,356.4 1,083.1 (1) 25The increase in revenues from 2009 to 2011 was attributable to an increase in contract volume as well as an increase in market data and information services revenue.40Table of ContentsFrom 2009 to 2011, higher compensation and benefits, amortization of purchased intangibles, as well as professional fees and outside services, contributed to an increase in expense. The increase in 2011 compared with 2010 was partially offset by 2010 impairment charges on the goodwill and trade name related to our CMA operations. Non operating income (expense) decreased in 2011 compared with 2010 due to lower interest expenses resulting from the repayment of the $420.5 million term loan in January 2011 and the maturity of the $300.0 million floating rate notes in August 2010. The decrease in 2010 compared with 2009 was attributable to $46.0 million of impairment of long term investments in 2009.The decrease in effective tax rate in 2011 compared with 2010 was the result of a reduction in state tax apportionment which resulted in a reduction in our income tax provision of $646.0 million largely due to a revaluation of our deferred tax liabilities. In addition, in the first quarter of 2011, we began marking to market our investment in BM&FBOVESPA which resulted in a $48.8 million reduction in valuation allowances on other unrealized capital losses previously reserved. The effective tax rate increased in 2010 compared with 2009 due to a $51.2 million charge to record the impact of our new combined state and local tax rate on our existing deferred tax liabilities. Our state and local tax rate increased due to revised state apportionment estimates resulting from annual state tax filings. Cash flows from operations are correlated with trading volume. In 2011 when compared with 2010, the increase in cash flows from operations due to trading volumes was partially offset by an increase in other current assets and other assets resulting from an increase in restricted cash. Revenues Year over Year Change(dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2010 2009Clearing and transaction fees $2,710.9 $2,486.3 $2,161.9 9% 15%Market data and information services 427.7 395.1 331.1 8 19Access and communication fees 49.2 45.4 45.6 8 Other 92.8 76.9 74.2 21 4Total Revenues $3,280.6 $3,003.7 $2,612.8 9 15Clearing and Transaction FeesThe following table summarizes our total contract volume, revenue and average rate per contract. Total contract volume includes contracts that are traded on our exchange and cleared through our CME clearing house. Contract volume also includes cleared only CME ClearPort contracts. Volume is measured in round turns, which is considered a completed transaction which involves a purchase and an offsetting sale of a contract. Average rate per contract is determined by dividing total clearing and transaction fee revenues by total contract volume. All amounts exclude our TRAKRS, credit default swap, interest rate swap and CMECE contracts. Year over Year Change 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2010 2009Total volume (in millions)3,386.7 3,078.1 2,584.9 10 % 19 %Clearing and transaction fees (in millions)$2,710.8 $2,486.2 $2,161.7 9 15Average rate per contract0.800 0.808 0.836 (1) (3)We estimate the following increases (decreases) in clearing and transaction fees based on change in total contract volume and change in average rate per contract during 2011 compared with 2010, and 2010 compared with 2009. Year over Year Change(in millions) 2011 2010 2010 2009Increase due to change in total volume $247.0 $398.4Decrease due to change in average rate per contract (22.4) (73.9)Net increase in clearing and transaction fees $224.6 $324.5Average rate per contract is impacted by our rate structure, including volume based incentives; product mix; trading venue; and the percentage of volume executed by customers who are members compared with non member customers. Due to the relationship between average rate per contract and volume, the change in revenues attributable to changes in each is only an 41Table of Contentsapproximation.Contract VolumeThe following table summarizes average daily contract volume. Contract volume can be influenced by many factors, including political and economic factors, the regulatory environment and market competition.From December 31, 2011 through the date the financial statements were issued, overall volume declined compared with 2011. The decrease in volume is attributable to lower volatility within the equity market, as measured by the CBOE Volatility Index, as well as lower volatility in short term interest rates. Year over Year Change(amounts in thousands) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2010 2009Average Daily Volume by Product Line: Interest rate 6,030 5,449 4,260 11% 28 %Equity 3,238 2,907 2,916 11 Foreign exchange 922 919 624 47Agricultural commodity 1,087 914 741 19 23Energy 1,775 1,662 1,492 7 11Metal 387 316 225 23 40Aggregate average daily volume 13,439 12,167 10,258 10 19 Average Daily Volume by Venue: Electronic 11,350 10,120 8,290 12 22Open outcry 1,398 1,402 1,310 7Privately negotiated 231 198 164 17 21Total exchange traded volume 12,979 11,720 9,764 11 20Total CME ClearPort 460 447 494 3 (10)Aggregate average daily volume 13,439 12,167 10,258 10 19Electronic Volume as a Percentage of Average Daily Volume 84% 83% 81% Interest Rate ProductsThe following table summarizes average daily volume for our key interest rate products. Eurodollar front 8 contracts include contracts expiring within two years. Eurodollar back 32 contracts include contracts expiring within three to ten years. Year over Year Change(amounts in thousands) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2010 2009Eurodollar futures and options: Front 8 futures 1,717 1,646 1,482 4% 11%Back 32 futures 510 357 238 43 50Options 767 726 639 6 14U.S. Treasury futures and options: 10 Year 1,454 1,380 913 5 515 Year 720 546 410 32 33Treasury bond 415 388 292 7 332 Year 297 274 201 8 37In 2011 when compared with 2010, the overall increase in interest rate contract volume was attributable to volatility caused by a change in market expectations regarding short term and long term interest rates tied to the Federal Reserves announcement in 2011 that it intends to maintain its zero interest rate policy through 2013. In addition, volatility caused by the downgrade of the United States credit rating also contributed to an increase in overall volume. Mid term interest rate contract volume, which includes Eurodollar back 32 futures and 5 year U.S. Treasury futures and options, grew at a faster rate than short term contract volume because of a shift from contracts based on short term interest rates to mid term interest rates due to the continued zero interest rate policy through 2013.42Table of ContentsWe also believe that overall U.S. Treasury futures and options contract volume increased in 2011 when compared with 2010 due to institutional portfolio adjustments caused by the downgrade of the United States credit rating. Many institutional portfolios are required to maintain an average minimum overall credit rating. When the U.S. Treasury credit rating was downgraded, the institutional portfolios had to sell investments with lower credit ratings and buy more U.S. Treasuries in order to increase their average minimum overall credit rating. In addition, the growth in overall U.S. Treasury futures and options contract volume was attributable to increased demand for U.S. Treasury securities as a safe haven investment during the European credit crisis.The overall growth in interest rate contract volume in 2011 when compared with 2010 was partially offset by a decrease in volume in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared with the fourth quarter of 2010. We believe the decline in volume in the fourth quarter of 2011 was attributable to low interest rate volatility as well as the MF Global bankruptcy as well as stronger seasonal factors in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared with the same period of 2010. In 2010 when compared with 2009, overall interest rate product volume increased due to the overall improvement in the economic environment in 2010 following the credit crisis. Specifically, in the second half of 2010, a continuing zero interest rate policy in the United States and the Federal Reserves announcement that it would buy additional U.S. Treasury securities to stimulate the economy led to changing expectations about interest rates as well as increased market participants use of these products. The change in expectations contributed to an increase in volume for longer term U.S. Treasury products which was only partially offset by slower growth in volume for short term Eurodollar products.We believe that the increase in overall Eurodollar products volume in 2010, when compared with 2009, resulted from uncertainty surrounding the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) due to the European credit crisis throughout early 2010. In addition, changing expectations about the Federal Reserves monetary policy led to increased volume for longer dated Eurodollar products.In 2010, when compared with 2009, we believe that the increase in U.S. Treasury note futures and options volume was attributable to the additional U.S. Treasury note issuance by the U.S. government as well as rising intermediate and long term interest rates during 2010.Equity ProductsThe following table summarizes average daily volume for our key equity products. Year over Year Change(amounts in thousands) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2010 2009E mini S&P 500 futures and options 2,605 2,285 2,280 14 % %E mini NASDAQ 100 futures and options 301 317 311 (5) 2In 2011 when compared with 2010, an overall increase in volatility, as measured by the CBOE Volatility Index, contributed to an increase in equity contract volume. We experienced periods of high volatility within the equity markets during the third quarter of 2011, which we believe was attributable to the downgrade of the United States credit rating and the continuation of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe. We also experienced short periods of high volatility in May 2010 due to the start of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe, which we believe contributed to additional volume in 2010. In general, equity products such as the E mini NASDAQ contracts that hedge market risks different than those of the E mini S&P 500, our most liquid equity product, do not tend to benefit from macro level events or increased volatility to the same extent.Growth in equity products volume was relatively unchanged in 2010 when compared with 2009. We believe an improved economic outlook leading to increased investment in the equities market contributed to an increase in volume in 2010. This increase was offset by a decrease in volume attributable to a decline in average volatility for equity products, as measured by the CBOE Volatility Index, in 2010 when compared with 2009.43Table of ContentsForeign Exchange ProductsThe following table summarizes average daily volume for our key foreign exchange products. Year over Year Change(amounts in thousands) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2010 2009Euro 357 367 225 (3)% 63%Australian dollar 126 105 68 20 55Japanese yen 118 131 93 (10) 41British pound 118 124 100 (5) 24Canadian dollar 92 91 63 1 43In 2011 when compared with 2010, foreign exchange contract volume remained at a consistent level. We believe that intervention by the Japanese central bank to control the yen foreign exchange rate and uncertainty about the Euro as a result of the European credit crisis caused the market to move to safe haven currencies, such as the Australian dollar and the Canadian dollar. As a result, Euro and Japanese yen contract volume decreased while Australian dollar volume increased.We believe that the increase in volume in 2010, when compared with 2009, was attributable to the weakening of the Euro and British pound compared with the U.S. dollar. Uncertainty surrounding the Euro following the European credit crisis contributed to increased volatility, which led to increased trading volume for the Euro products in 2010 when compared with 2009. We also believe that the strengthening of the yen compared with the U.S. dollar contributed to an increase in volume. In addition, our cross selling efforts to market participants in other asset classes as well as increased global sales presence contributed to growth in volume.Agricultural Commodity ProductsThe following table summarizes average daily volume for our key agricultural commodity products. Year over Year Change(amounts in thousands) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2010 2009Corn 426 358 259 19% 38%Soybean 232 186 180 25 3Wheat 115 109 85 5 29Soybean Oil 105 89 73 18 23We believe that the year over year increases in contract volume from 2009 to 2011 were attributable to a decline in supply due to various weather events including flooding, drought and excessive heat. The change in supply resulted in increased volatility and higher grain prices. We also believe that the increase in volume resulted from increased demand for feedgrains caused by increased demand for cattle and other proteins in emerging markets.Energy ProductsThe following table summarizes average daily volume for our key energy products. Year over Year Change(amounts in thousands) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2010 2009Crude oil 900 853 712 5% 20%Natural gas 533 489 478 9 2Refined products 275 244 194 13 26In 2011 when compared with 2010, we believe the increase in energy contract volume was attributable to increased price volatility within the energy market during the first quarter of 2011. We believe that increased volatility caused by changes in global supply and demand resulting from political unrest in the Middle East in the first quarter of 2011 contributed to the increase in crude oil and refined products volume. We also believe that increased volatility caused by weather related events led to an increase in natural gas contract volume in 2011.In 2010 when compared with 2009, we believe that the growth in energy contract volume was attributable to an improved economic outlook as well as increased liquidity within the energy futures market during the period. We believe crude oil and refined products contract volume increased at a higher rate than natural gas contract volume due to an increase in volume generated from customers outside the United States as well as increased volatility in the crude oil and refined products market.44Table of ContentsMetal ProductsThe following table summarizes average daily volume for our key metal products. Year over Year Change(amounts in thousands) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2010 2009Gold 238 208 159 14% 31%Silver 87 57 36 51 59The overall increase in metal contract volume from 2009 to 2011 was attributable to the increased investment in precious metals as an asset class due to high volatility and uncertainty within the financial markets. We believe that there has been an increase in silver contract volume due to the greater use of silver as an alternative investment.Average Rate per ContractThe average rate per contract decreased from 2009 to 2011 due to an increase in member trading volume, which increased faster than non member trading. In general, members receive lower rates when compared with non members. In addition, the average rate per contract decreased in 2010 compared with 2009 due to a lower portion of equity and energy products as a percentage of total volume compared with interest rate products. As a percentage of volume, equity products volume decreased by 4% and energy product volume decreased by 1% while interest rate product volume increased by 3%. Equity and energy products have higher fees compared with interest rate products.Concentration of RevenueWe bill a substantial portion of our clearing and transaction fees to our clearing firms. The majority of clearing and transaction fees received from clearing firms represent charges for trades executed and cleared on behalf of their customers. One firm represented 12% of our clearing and transaction fees revenue in 2011. One firm represented 13% and one firm represented 12% of our clearing and transaction fees revenue in 2010. One firm represented 13% and one firm represented 11% of our clearing and transaction fees revenue in 2009. Should a clearing firm withdraw, we believe that the customer portion of the firms trading activity would likely transfer to another clearing firm of the exchange. Therefore, we do not believe we are exposed to significant risk from an ongoing loss of revenue received from or through a particular clearing firm. In 2011, MF Global, one of our largest clearing firms, was placed into bankruptcy and we transferred all of their more than 30,000 customer accounts to other futures commission merchants. Other Sources of RevenueRevenues from Index Services contributed to an increase in market data and information services revenue from 2009 to 2011. In March 2010, we formed Index Services, which contributed to an increase in revenues of $54.9 million in 2010 when compared with 2009 and an increase of $35.6 million in 2011 when compared with 2010. In addition, revenues from Index Services, which include revenue from market data and licensing, increased in 2011 when compared with 2010 due to growth in assets under management, which was driven by underlying index market performance. An increase in the basic device monthly fee in 2010 also contributed to an increase in overall market data and information services revenues in 2010 when compared with 2009. The overall increase from 2009 to 2011 was partially offset by a decline in revenue due to a decrease in basic device counts resulting from cost cutting initiatives at customer firms.Effective January 1, 2012, users of our basic service will pay $70 per month for each device compared with $61 per month in 2011 and 2010.The two largest resellers of our market data represented approximately 39%, 45% and 55% of our market data and information services revenue in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Despite this concentration, we consider exposure to significant risk of revenue loss to be minimal. In the event that one of these vendors no longer subscribes to our market data, we believe the majority of that vendors customers would likely subscribe to our market data through another reseller. Additionally, several of our largest institutional customers that utilize services from our two largest resellers report usage and remit payment of their fees directly to us.In the fourth quarter of 2011, we substantially completed installations of equipment for customers in our co location program, which resulted in incremental revenue of $3.4 million in 2011 when compared with 2010. Co location services launched on January 29, 2012. In the second quarter of 2011, we recognized a $9.8 million gain on sale of certain Index Services assets related to one of its service offerings. The gain contributed to the increase in other revenue in 2011 when compared with 2010. In addition, in 2011 when compared with 2010, we generated incremental processing services revenue of $4.3 million from various strategic 45Table of Contentsrelationships and incremental licensing fee revenue of $3.4 million. The increase in other revenues in 2011 when compared with 2010 was partially offset by a decrease in revenues of $4.4 million generated from our agreement with BM&FBOVESPA S.A. (BM&FBOVESPA) to develop a new multi asset class electronic platform because the initial development phase was completed in the third quarter of 2011. Other revenues increased in 2010 when compared with 2009 due to $10.7 million of revenue generated from our agreement with BM&FBOVESPA and incremental processing services revenue generated from various strategic relationships. This was partially offset by a $6.3 million decline in trading revenues generated by GFX Corporation (GFX) resulting from lower trading activity and narrower trading margins.Expenses Year over Year Change(dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2010 2009Compensation and benefits $475.7 $432.1 $351.0 10 % 23 %Communications 42.3 40.6 47.0 4 (14)Technology support services 52.1 50.5 46.2 3 9Professional fees and outside services 126.1 117.5 85.1 7 38Amortization of purchased intangibles 132.0 128.1 125.1 3 2Depreciation and amortization 128.5 129.9 126.3 (1) 3Occupancy and building operations 77.5 74.9 76.3 3 (2)Licensing and other fee agreements 84.9 82.6 89.2 3 (7)Other 140.4 116.4 77.5 21 50Total Expenses $1,259.5 $1,172.6 $1,023.7 7 152011 Compared With 2010Operating expenses increased by $86.9 million in 2011 when compared with 2010. The following table shows the estimated impact of key factors resulting in the increase in operating expenses.(dollars in millions) Year Over YearChange Change as aPercentage of2010 ExpensesSalaries, benefits and employer taxes $44.2 4 %MF Global related expense 29.1 2Stock based compensation 10.5 1Marketing expense 7.0 1Professional fees related to Index Services (10.7) (1)CMA goodwill and trade name impairment (20.5) (2)Other expenses, net 27.3 2Total $86.9 7 %Salary increases and rising healthcare costs contributed to a rise in salaries, benefits and employer taxes. An increase in average headcount primarily due to the formation of Index Services and investment in strategic growth initiatives also contributed to an increase in expense in 2011 when compared with 2010.Expenses increased due to the MF Global bankruptcy filing in the fourth quarter of 2011, which resulted in write offs of accounts receivable, legal fees and loss on collateral posted by GFX and held by MF Global in customer segregrated funds as well as a other related expenses. Stock based compensation increased in 2011 due to the expense impact related to the September 2010 and 2011 grants.Marketing expenses increased in 2011 due primarily to new advertising initiatives.A decrease in professional fees was attributable to the formation and integration of Index Services, which occurred in the first quarter of 2010.Impairment charges recorded in the second quarter of 2010 on the goodwill and trade name related to our CMA operations also contributed to a decrease in expenses in 2011 when compared with 2010.46Table of Contents2010 Compared With 2009Operating expenses increased by $148.9 million in 2010 when compared with 2009. The following table shows the estimated impact of key factors resulting in the increase in operating expenses.(dollars in millions) Year Over YearChange Change as aPercentage of2009 ExpensesSalaries, benefits and employer taxes $42.7 4%Bonus expense 32.7 3CMA goodwill and trade name impairment 20.5 2Marketing and travel expense 15.9 2Professional fees related to Index Services 14.7 2Other expenses, net 22.4 2Total $148.9 15%The rise in salaries, benefits and employer taxes was attributable to an increase in average headcount due to Index Services as well as salary increases and rising healthcare costs. Our improved performance relative to our 2010 cash earnings target compared with 2009 relative to our 2009 cash earnings target led to the increase in our bonus expense. Impairment charges on goodwill and trade name related to our CMA operations in the second quarter of 2010 led to an increase in expenses in 2010. Global expansion and establishment of strategic partnerships contributed to an increase in marketing and travel expenses in 2010. The increase in expenses in 2010 was also due to professional fee expenses incurred for Index Services. This increase included $10.3 million of professional and legal fees incurred for the formation of Index Services. Non Operating Income (Expense) Year over Year Change(dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2010 2009Investment income $36.7 $42.3 $28.5 (13)% 48 %Impairment of long term investments (2.2) (46.0) (100) (95)Gains (losses) on derivative investments (0.1) (2.6) (96) n.m.Interest and other borrowing costs (116.9) (140.3) (133.9) (17) 5Guarantee of exercise rights privileges 4.3 (100)Equity in net losses of unconsolidated subsidiaries (4.3) (6.4) (6.8) (33) (6)Other income (expense) 2.3 (100)Total Non Operating $(84.6) $(109.2) $(151.6) (22) (28) n.m. not meaningfulInvestment Income. The decrease in investment income during 2011 when compared with 2010 was due to a decline in gains on marketable securities related to our non qualified deferred compensation plans of $4.1 million. Gains and losses from these non qualified deferred compensation plan securities are offset by an equal amount of compensation and benefits expense. In addition, we recognized a gain of $3.7 million from the sale of various equity and debt securities in 2010, which contributed to the decrease in investment income in 2011 when compared with 2010. The decrease in 2011 when compared with 2010 was partially offset by an increase in dividend income from our investment in BM&FBOVESPA. Total overall dividend income was $34.9 million in 2011 compared with $31.9 million in 2010. The increase in investment income in 2010 when compared with 2009 was attributable to a $16.0 million increase in dividend income from our investments in BM&FBOVESPA, TMX Group Inc. and Bolsa Mexicana de Valores, S.A.B. de C.V., and a $3.7 million gain resulting from the sale of various equity and debt securities. The increase was partially offset by a $4.8 million decrease in interest income as a result of lower average investment balances and lower average interest rates. 47Table of ContentsImpairment of Long Term Investments. In 2010, we determined that our investment in OneChicago was impaired based on its historical financial performance and other factors. As a result, we recognized an impairment charge of $2.2 million. In 2009, we determined that our investment in DME was impaired due to the excess of our carrying value over our investments estimated fair value. As a result, we recognized an impairment charge of $23.6 million. We also determined that our investment in IMAREX ASA (IMAREX) was impaired due to an extended and significant decline in the market price of its stock. As a result, we recognized an impairment charge of $22.4 million in 2009.Gains (Losses) on Derivative Investments. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we recognized an $8.6 million loss due to ineffectiveness on the interest rate swap contract used to hedge interest rate risk on our term loan. Both the swap contract and the term loan were originally scheduled to expire in August 2011. In December 2010, we approved a plan to refinance the term loan in January 2011 resulting in ineffectiveness of the hedge. Additionally, in March 2010, we recognized a $6.0 million gain on derivative investments as a result of a settlement from the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (Lehman) bankruptcy proceedings. The settlement related to an unsecured claim against Lehman as counterparty to an over the counter put option contract we purchased to hedge our risk of changes in the fair value of BM&FBOVESPA stock resulting from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Brazilian real.Interest and Other Borrowing Costs. Interest expense decreased in 2011 compared with 2010 due to repayment of the $420.5 million term loan in January 2011 and the maturity of the $300.0 million floating rate notes in August 2010. The decrease in 2011 compared with 2010 was partially offset by the issuance, in March 2010, of $612.5 million of 4.40% fixed rate notes, which are due in 2018.In 2010 when compared with 2009, interest expense increased due to the issuance of $612.5 million of 4.40% fixed rate notes due 2018. This resulted in an increase in average effective yield and total cost of borrowing. However, average debt balances decreased in 2010 due to the reduction in overall debt levels throughout the year. The increase in expense was also attributable to a full year of interest expense recognized on the 5.75% fixed rate notes issued in February 2009. Year over Year Change(dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2010 2009Weighted average borrowings outstanding $2,155.8 $2,668.1 $2,841.8 $(512.3) $(173.7)Weighted average effective yield 5.18% 4.96% 4.23% 0.22% 0.73%Total cost of borrowing 5.47 5.24 4.76 0.23 0.48Total cost of borrowing includes interest, commitment fees, discount accretion and debt issuance costs.Guarantee of Exercise Rights Privileges. In December 2009, final approval of the settlement of the ERPs associated with our CBOT Holdings merger occurred and we reduced our liability associated with our guarantee of the ERPs to zero, which resulted in a gain in 2009. Following the resolution of the lawsuit, we also adjusted the value of the 159 ERPs that we held to the expected settlement value, which also contributed to the gain in 2009.Other Income (Expense). In 2009, we recognized income and expense related to the NYMEX securities lending program, which was terminated in June 2009. Income Tax ProvisionThe following table summarizes the effective tax rate for the periods presented: 2011 2010 2009 Year over Year Change2011 2010 2010 2009Year ended December 316.3% 44.7% 42.6% (38.4)% 2.1%In 2011 when compared with 2010, the decrease in our effective tax rate was the result of a reduction in state tax apportionment which resulted in a reduction in our income tax provision of $646.0 million, including a $527.9 million decrease in the income tax provision in the fourth quarter of 2011, largely due to a revaluation of our deferred tax liabilities. Additionally, in the first quarter of 2011, we began marking to market our investment in BM&FBOVESPA which resulted in a $48.8 million reduction in valuation allowances on other unrealized capital losses previously reserved.The increase in the effective tax rate in 2010 when compared with 2009 was attributable to a $51.2 million charge to record the 48Table of Contentsimpact of our new combined state and local tax rate on our existing deferred tax liabilities. The state and local tax rate increased due to revised state apportionment estimates resulting from annual state tax filings. The increase in the effective tax rate was also due to the impairment of CMAs goodwill and trade name in the second quarter of 2010 which was not deductible. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCESCash Requirements. We have historically met our funding requirements with cash generated by our ongoing operations. While our cost structure is fixed in the short term, our sources of operating cash are dependent on trading volume levels. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, and other commitments. However, it is possible that we may need to raise additional funds to finance our activities through issuances of commercial paper, future public debt offerings or by direct borrowings from financial institutions. Cash will also be required for operating leases and non cancellable purchase obligations as well as other obligations reflected as long term liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2011. These were as follows: (in millions) OperatingLeases PurchaseObligations OtherLong TermLiabilities Total(1)Year 2012 $22.1 $5.8 $40.4 $68.32013 2014 50.9 0.8 51.72015 2016 45.5 0.7 46.2Thereafter 135.6 135.6Total $254.1 $7.3 $40.4 $301.8(1)Gross unrecognized income tax liabilities, including interest and penalties, of $53.9 million for uncertain tax positions are not included in the table due to uncertainty about the date of their settlement.Operating leases include rent payments for office space in Chicago and other smaller offices in the United States and in various foreign countries. The operating lease for our headquarters in Chicago expires in November 2022. Annual minimum rental payments under this lease range from $10.1 million to $13.5 million. We also maintain an operating lease for additional office space in Chicago, which expires in November 2023. Annual minimum rental payments under this lease range from $4.5 million to $6.2 million. Purchase obligations include minimum payments due under agreements to purchase software licenses, hardware and maintenance as well as telecommunication services. Other long term liabilities include primarily funding obligations for pension and other post retirement benefit plans as well as contingent consideration. Future capital expenditures for technology are anticipated as we continue to support our growth through investment in our co location program, increased system capacity and performance improvements. Each year, capital expenditures are incurred for improvements to and expansion of our offices, remote data centers, telecommunications network and other operating equipment. In 2012, we expect capital expenditures to total between $140.0 million and $150.0 million. We continue to monitor our capital needs and may revise our forecasted expenditures as necessary in the future. We intend to continue to pay a regular quarterly dividend to our shareholders. The decision to pay a dividend, however, remains within the discretion of our board of directors and may be affected by various factors, including our earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, levels of indebtedness and other considerations our board of directors deems relevant. CME Group is also required to comply with restrictions contained in the general corporation laws of its state of incorporation which could also limit its (or their) ability to declare and pay dividends. On February 1, 2012, our board approved a change in our annual dividend policy to increase the distribution target from approximately 35% of the prior years cash earnings to approximately 50% of the prior years cash earnings. On February 1, 2012, the board of directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $2.23 per share. The board of directors also declared an additional, annual variable dividend of $3.00 per share. Going forward, this dividend will be considered in the first quarter of each year and will supplement the regular dividend. The amount of the annual variable dividend will be determined after the end of each year, and the level will increase or decrease from year to year based on operating results, potential merger and acquisition activity, and other forms of capital return including regular dividends and share buybacks during the prior year. Both dividends will be payable on March 26, 2012 to shareholders of record on March 9, 2012. Assuming no changes in the number of shares outstanding, the first quarter dividend payments will total approximately $345.8 million. 49Table of ContentsSources and Uses of Cash. The following is a summary of cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. Year over Year Change(dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2010 2009Net cash provided by operating activities $1,346.3 $1,356.4 $1,083.1 (1)% 25 %Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (153.6) (108.4) 544.8 42 (120)Net cash used in financing activities (1,005.6) (653.4) (1,665.2) 54 (61)Operating activitiesNet cash provided by operating activities decreased slightly in 2011 when compared with 2010. Increased profitability as a result of higher trading volumes was offset by an increase in other current assets and other assets resulting from an increase in restricted cash. In 2011, net cash provided by operating activities was $468.1 million lower than net income, which was attributable to a decrease in deferred income tax liabilities, partially offset by amortization of purchased intangibles of $132.0 million and depreciation and amortization of $128.5 million. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities in 2010 when compared with 2009 was due to higher trading volumes and increased profitability. In 2010, net cash provided by operating activities was $404.3 million higher than net income. This increase was the result of depreciation and amortization expense of $129.9 million and amortization of purchased intangibles of $128.1 million. An increase in accrued expenses also contributed to the overall increase. Investing activitiesThe increase in cash used in investing activities in 2011 when compared with 2010 was due to the proceeds from the sale of a long term investment and our ERPs in 2010.The termination of the NYMEX securities lending program in 2009 as well as the decrease in proceeds from marketable securities, net of purchases, of $278.2 million, contributed to the increase in cash used for investing in 2010 when compared with 2009. Financing activitiesThe increase in cash used in 2011 compared with 2010 was attributable to proceeds from our issuance of shares to BM&FBOVESPA in 2010 and an increase in cash dividends in 2011 when compared with 2010. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in share repurchases of $354.9 million in 2011 when compared with the same period in 2010.The decrease in cash used in 2010 relative to 2009 was attributable to a decrease in commercial paper repayments, net of proceeds and proceeds from our share issuance to BM&FBOVESPA in 2010. We also terminated the NYMEX securities lending program in 2009, which resulted in a decrease in the NYMEX securities lending program liabilities. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in share repurchases of $548.3 million in 2010. Share repurchases increased in an effort to offset most of the dilution associated with the issuance of shares to BM&FBOVESPA. Debt Instruments. The following table summarizes our debt outstanding as of December 31, 2011:(in millions) Par ValueFixed rate notes due August 2013, interest equal to 5.40% $750.0Fixed rate notes due February 2014, interest equal to 5.75% 750.0Fixed rate notes due March 2018, interest equal to 4.40%(1) 612.5(1)In March 2010, we completed an unregistered offering of fixed rate notes due 2018. Net proceeds from the offering were used to fund a distribution to Dow Jones in conjunction with our investment in Index Services. In February 2010, we entered into a forward starting interest rate swap agreement that modified the interest obligation associated with these notes so that the interest payable on the notes effectively became fixed at a rate of 4.46%.We maintain a $1.0 billion multi currency revolving senior credit facility with various financial institutions. The proceeds from the revolving senior credit facility can be used for general corporate purposes, which includes providing liquidity for our CME clearing house in certain circumstances and, if necessary, for maturities of commercial paper. As long as we are not in default under the new senior credit facility, we have the option to increase the facility up to $1.8 billion with the consent of the agent and lenders providing the additional funds. The senior credit facility matures in January 2014 and is voluntarily prepayable from time to time without premium or penalty. Under our credit facility, we are required to remain in compliance with a 50Table of Contentsconsolidated net worth test, which is defined as our consolidated shareholders equity as of September 30, 2010, giving effect to share repurchases made and special dividends paid during the term of the agreement (and in no event greater than $2.0 billion in aggregate), multiplied by 0.65. We currently do not have any borrowings under this credit facility. We maintain a 364 day fully secured, committed line of credit with a consortium of domestic and international banks to be used in certain situations by our CME clearing house. We may use the proceeds to provide temporary liquidity in the unlikely event of a clearing firm default, in the event of a liquidity constraint or default by a depositary (custodian for our collateral), or in the event of a temporary disruption with the domestic payments system that would delay payment of settlement variation between us and our clearing firms. CME clearing firm guaranty fund contributions received in the form of U.S. Treasury securities, U.S. Government agency securities or money market mutual funds as well as the performance bond assets of a defaulting firm can be used to collateralize the facility. The line of credit provides for borrowings of up to $3.0 billion. At December 31, 2011, guaranty fund collateral available was $4.5 billion. We have the option to request an increase in the line from $3.0 billion to $5.0 billion. In addition to the 364 day fully secured, committed line of credit, we also have the option to use the $1.0 billion multi currency revolving senior credit facility to provide liquidity for our clearing house in the unlikely event of default in certain circumstances. In addition, our 364 day fully secured, committed revolving line of credit contains a requirement that CME remain in compliance with a consolidated tangible net worth test, defined as CME consolidated shareholders equity less intangible assets (as defined in the agreement), of not less than $375.0 million. In the event that CME elects to increase the facility, the minimum consolidated tangible net worth test would increase ratably up to $625.0 million. The indentures governing our fixed rate notes, our $1.0 billion multi currency revolving senior credit facility and our 364 day fully secured, committed revolving line of credit for $3.0 billion do not contain specific covenants that restrict the ability to pay dividends. These documents, however, do contain other customary financial and operating covenants that place restrictions on the operations of the company that could indirectly affect the ability to pay dividends. At December 31, 2011, we have excess borrowing capacity for general corporate purposes of approximately $1.0 billion under our multi currency revolving senior credit facility. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with the various covenant requirements of all our debt facilities. CME Group, as a holding company, has no operations of its own. Instead, it relies on dividends declared and paid to it by its subsidiaries in order to provide a portion of the funds which it uses to pay dividends to its shareholders. To satisfy our performance bond obligation with Singapore Exchange Limited, we may pledge CME owned U.S. Treasury securities in lieu of, or in combination with, irrevocable letters of credit. At December 31, 2011, the letters of credit totaled $161.0 million. GFX has a $15.0 million standby letter of credit. The letter of credit was posted as collateral with MF Global and is now held by the MF Global bankruptcy trustee. As of December 31, 2011, the letter of credit can still be drawn on by the trustee. The letter of credit expires on June 29, 2012. GFX now maintains its future positions and has collateral posted with another clearing firm. The following table summarizes our credit ratings as of December 31, 2011: Rating Agency Short TermDebt Rating Long TermDebt Rating OutlookStandard & Poors A1+ AA NegativeMoodys Investors Service P1 Aa3 StableOn February 7, 2012, Standard & Poors (S&P) lowered our long term debt rating from AA to AA , with a negative outlook. S&P affirmed our A1+ short term ratings. Given our cash flow generation, our ability to pay down debt levels and our ability to refinance existing debt facilities if necessary, we expect to maintain an investment grade rating. As provided in the trust indenture documents, if our ratings are downgraded below investment grade due to a change of control, we are required to make an offer to repurchase our fixed rate notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements. As of December 31, 2011, we did not have any off balance sheet arrangements as defined by the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.Liquidity and Cash Management. Cash and cash equivalents totaled $1.0 billion at December 31, 2011 and $855.2 million at December 31, 2010. The balance retained in cash and cash equivalents is a function of anticipated or possible short term cash needs, prevailing interest rates, our investment policy and alternative investment choices. A majority of our cash and cash equivalents balance is invested in money market mutual funds that invest only in U.S. Treasury securities or U.S. Government 51Table of Contentsagency securities. Our exposure to risk is minimal given the nature of the investments. Our practice is to have our pension plan 100% funded at each year end on a projected benefit obligation basis, while also satisfying any minimum required contribution and obtaining the maximum tax deduction. Based on our actuarial projections, we estimate that a $17.1 million contribution in 2012 will allow us to meet our funding goal. However, the amount of the actual contribution is contingent on the actual rate of return on our plan assets during 2012 and the December 31, 2012 discount rate. In November 2011, we announced that we will contribute certain assets of Index Services to a new index business venture with The McGraw Hill Companies Inc (McGraw Hill). As part of the agreement, we will also sell Credit Market Analysis Ltd. (CMA) to McGraw Hill. The transaction is expected to close by June 2012, subject to regulatory approval and customary closing conditions. As part of the agreement, the company will have a long term, ownership linked, exclusive license to list futures and options on futures based on the S&P Indices. 52Table of ContentsITEM 7A.QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKWe are subject to various market risks, including those caused by changes in interest rates, credit, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity prices. Interest Rate Risk Debt outstanding at December 31, 2011 consisted of fixed rate borrowings of $2.1 billion. We did not have any variable rate borrowings as of December 31, 2011. Credit Risk Our clearing houses act as the counterparties to all trades consummated on our exchanges as well as through third party exchanges and over the counter markets for which we provide clearing services. As a result, we are exposed to significant credit risk of third parties, including our clearing firms. We are also exposed, indirectly, to the credit risk of customers of our clearing firms. These parties may default on their obligations due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. In order to ensure performance, we establish and monitor financial requirements for our clearing firms. We set minimum performance bond requirements for our exchange traded and over the counter products, including credit default swaps and interest rate swaps. For futures and options on futures, we typically establish performance bond requirements to cover at least 99% of expected price changes for a given product within a given historical period with further quantitative and qualitative considerations based on market risk. For cleared over the counter credit default and interest rate swaps, we typically establish performance bond requirements to cover at least 99% of expected price changes for a given product within a given historical period with further quantitative and qualitative considerations based on market risk. For CMECE clearing firms, we typically establish performance bond requirements to cover at least 95% to 99% of expected price changes for a given product within a given historical period with further quantitative and qualitative considerations based on market risk. Collateral deposited to meet performance bond requirements is charged at a discount rate to cover at least 99% of expected price and foreign currency changes for a given asset within a historical period. Discount rates vary depending on the type of collateral. We mark to market all open positions of CME and CMECE clearing firms at least twice a day and require payment from clearing firms whose positions have lost value and make payments to clearing firms whose positions have gained value. For select cleared only markets, positions are marked to market daily with the capability to mark to market more frequently as market conditions warrant. These practices allow our clearing houses to identify quickly any clearing firms that may not be able to satisfy the financial obligations resulting from changes in the prices of their open contracts before those financial obligations become exceptionally large and jeopardize the ability of our clearing house to ensure performance of their open positions. This transparency makes it difficult for traders to hide losses or disguise unusual profits. Although we have policies and procedures to help ensure that our clearing firms can satisfy their obligations, these policies and procedures may not succeed in detecting problems or preventing defaults. We also have in place various measures intended to enable us to cover any default and maintain liquidity. We maintain three separate financial safeguard packages for our CME clearing firms; one for futures and options, one for cleared over the counter credit default swap contracts, and one for cleared over the counter interest rate swap contracts. In the unlikely event of a payment default by a clearing firm, we would first apply assets of the defaulting clearing firm to satisfy its payment obligation. These assets include the defaulting firms guaranty fund contributions, performance bonds and any other available assets, such as assets required for membership and any associated trading rights. In addition, we would make a demand for payment pursuant to any applicable guarantee provided to the exchange by the parent company of the clearing firm. Thereafter, if the payment default remains unsatisfied, we would use our surplus funds for futures and options contracts, or our designated working capital for cleared over the counter credit default swap contracts and cleared over the counter interest rate swap contracts. We would then use guaranty fund contributions of other clearing firms within the respective financial safeguard package and funds collected through an assessment against solvent clearing firms within the respective financial safeguard package to satisfy the deficit. Surplus funds represent the amount of CME working capital reduced by an amount necessary to support normal operations and amounts designated by CME for our credit default swap and interest rate swap financial safeguard packages. We maintain a $3.0 billion 364 day fully secured, committed line of credit with a consortium of domestic and international banks to be used in certain situations by our CME clearing house. We have the option to request an increase in the line from $3.0 billion to $5.0 billion. We may use the proceeds to provide temporary liquidity in the unlikely event of a clearing firm default, in the event of a liquidity constraint or default by a depositary (custodian of the collateral), or in the event of a temporary disruption with the domestic payments system that would delay payment of settlement variation between us and our clearing firms. The credit agreement requires us to pledge certain assets to the line of credit custodian prior to drawing on the line of credit, such as clearing firm guaranty fund deposits held by us in the form of U.S. Treasury or agency securities, as well as select money market mutual funds approved for our select IEF programs. Performance bond collateral of a defaulting 53Table of Contentsclearing firm may also be used to secure a draw on the line. In addition to the 364 day fully secured, committed line of credit, we also have the option to use our $1.0 billion multi currency revolving senior credit facility to provide liquidity for our clearing house in the unlikely event of default. Aggregate performance bond deposits for CME clearing firms for futures and options, cleared over the counter credit default swap contracts, and cleared over the counter interest rate swap contracts was $92.5 billion, including $8.1 billion of cash performance bond deposits. A defaulting firms performance bond collateral can be used in the event of default of that clearing firm. The following shows the available assets of our CME clearing house at December 31, 2011 in the event of a payment default by a clearing firm for futures and options contracts after first utilizing the defaulting firms available assets: (in millions) CME Clearing HouseAvailable AssetsCME surplus funds(1) $323.3Guaranty fund contributions(2) 2,967.8Assessment powers(3) 8,161.4Minimum Total Assets Available for Default(4) $11,452.5 (1)CME surplus funds represent the amount of working capital reduced by an amount necessary to support normal operations and the amounts designated by CME for our credit default swap and interest rate swap financial safeguard packages. Our target for the CME surplus funds is $100.0 million with amounts in excess of this target generally paid as a dividend from CME to CME Group on a quarterly basis based on prior quarter end balances. (2)Guaranty fund contributions of clearing firms include guaranty fund contributions required of clearing firms, but do not include any excess deposits held by our exchange at the direction of clearing firms. (3)In the event of a clearing firm default, if a loss continues to exist after the utilization of the assets of the defaulted firm, CME surplus funds and the non defaulting clearing firms guaranty fund contributions, we have the right to assess all non defaulting clearing members as defined in the rules governing the guaranty fund. (4)Represents the aggregate minimum resources available to satisfy any obligations not met by a defaulting firm subsequent to the liquidation of the defaulting firms performance bond collateral. The following shows the available assets of our CME clearing house for the credit default swap financial safeguard package at December 31, 2011 in the event of a payment default by a clearing firm that clears credit default swap contracts, after first utilizing the defaulting firms available assets:(in millions) CME Clearing HouseAvailable AssetsCME designated working capital for credit default swap contracts(1) $50.0Guaranty fund contributions(2) 628.6Minimum Total Assets Available for Default(3) $678.6 (1)CME designates working capital to satisfy a clearing firm default in the event that the defaulting clearing firms guaranty contributions and performance bonds do not satisfy the deficit. The working capital contributed by CME would be equal to the greater of $50.0 million and 5% of the credit default swap guaranty fund, up to a maximum of $100.0 million. (2)Guaranty fund contributions of clearing firms for credit default swap contracts include guaranty fund contributions required of those clearing firms. (3)Represents the aggregate minimum resources available to satisfy any obligations not met by a defaulting firm subsequent to the liquidation of the defaulting firms performance bond collateral. In the event of a clearing firm default, if a loss continues to exist after the utilization of the assets of the defaulted firm, CME designated working capital and the non defaulting firms guaranty fund contributions, we may have the right to assess all non defaulting clearing members as defined in the rules governing the credit default swap guaranty fund. 54Table of ContentsThe following shows the available assets of our CME clearing house for the interest rate swap financial safeguard package at December 31, 2011 in the event of a payment default by a clearing firm that clears interest rate swap contracts, after first utilizing the defaulting firms available assets: (in millions) CME Clearing HouseAvailable AssetsCME designated working capital for interest rate swap contracts(1) $100.0Guaranty fund contributions(2) 948.0Minimum Total Assets Available for Default(3) $1,048.0(1)CME designates $100.0 million of working capital to satisfy a clearing firm default in the event that the defaulting clearing firms guaranty contributions and performance bonds do not satisfy the deficit. (2)Guaranty fund contributions of clearing firms for interest rate swap contracts include guaranty fund contributions required of those clearing firms. (3)Represents the aggregate minimum resources available to satisfy any obligations not met by a defaulting firm subsequent to the liquidation of the defaulting firms performance bond collateral. In the event of a clearing firm default, if a loss continues to exist after the utilization of the assets of the defaulted firm, CME designated working capital and the non defaulting firms guaranty fund contributions, we may have the right to assess all non defaulting clearing members as defined in the rules governing the interest rate swap guaranty fund. We maintain a separate financial safeguard package for CMECE clearing firms. In the unlikely event of a payment default by a CMECE clearing firm, we would first apply assets of the defaulting clearing firm to satisfy its payment obligation. These assets include the defaulting firms performance bonds. Aggregate cash performance bond deposits for CMECE clearing firms was $26.0 million. There were no non cash performance bonds on deposit at December 31, 2011. Thereafter, if the payment default remains unsatisfied after first applying assets of the defaulting clearing firm to satisfy its payment obligation, we would use $60.0 million of CMECE funds. As of December 31, 2011, guaranty fund contributions were contributed by CMECE. In 2012, the CMECE clearing firms may be asked to contribute to the CMECE guaranty fund and the size of the fund will be reviewed in light of the actual risk exposure. Once the CMECE clearing firms contribute to the guaranty fund, we would use at least $20.0 million of CMECE funds in the event of a default.Despite these safeguards, we cannot assure you that these measures will be sufficient to protect us from a default or that we will not be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default.Foreign Currency Exchange Rate RiskForeign Currency Transaction Risk Our exposure to foreign currency transaction risk resulting from our operations is considered minimal and is not expected to be material to our financial condition or operating results. Foreign Currency Translation Risk We have foreign currency translation risk related to the translation of our foreign subsidiaries assets and liabilities from their respective functional currencies to the U.S. dollar at each reporting date. Fluctuations in exchange rates may impact the amount of total assets and liabilities we report in our consolidated balance sheets. The financial statements of certain of our foreign subsidiaries are denominated in various currencies, including the British pound and the Brazilian real, and are translated into U.S. dollars using a current exchange rate. Gains and losses resulting from this translation are recognized as a foreign currency translation adjustment within accumulated other comprehensive income, which is a component of shareholders equity. The translation adjustment, net of tax, for 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $83.3 million, $(0.5) million and $2.6 million, respectively. In 2011, we reversed an unrealized loss of $81.7 million, net of tax, which was attributable to foreign currency translation adjustments that were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) upon recognizing impairment on our investment in BM&FBOVESPA. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, 3% and 10% of our consolidated cash and cash equivalents balances were held by foreign subsidiaries whose balance sheets were translated from a foreign functional currency to U.S. dollars at each reporting date. Other Foreign Currency Risk We are also exposed to foreign exchange rate risk related to the equity investments noted under Equity Price Risk. Any foreign exchange rate risk related to these investments is reflected in the Equity Price Risk section below. Foreign Currency Risk Related to Customer CollateralA portion of the performance bond deposits is denominated in foreign currency. We mark to market all collateral once daily and require payment from clearing firms whose collateral has lost value due to changes in foreign currency rates and price. In 55Table of Contentsaddition, we typically establish performance bond levels to cover at least 95% to 99% of expected price and foreign currency changes for a given product within a given historical period, which further reduces our exposure to foreign currency and other price risk. Collateral deposited to meet performance bond requirements is charged at a discount rate to cover at least 99% of expected price and foreign currency changes for a given asset within a historical period. Discount rates vary depending on the type of collateral. Therefore, our exposure to foreign currency risk related to customer collateral deposits is considered minimal and is not expected to be material to our financial condition or operating results.Equity Price RiskWe hold certain investments in equity securities for strategic purposes. Investments subject to equity price risks are generally recorded at their fair value. Fair values for publicly traded equity investments are based on quoted market prices. Fair values are subject to fluctuation and, consequently, the amount realized in the subsequent sale of an investment may differ significantly from its current reported value. Fluctuation in the market price of a security may result from perceived changes in the underlying economic characteristics of the issuer, the relative price of alternative investments and general market conditions. The table below summarizes our equity investments subject to equity price fluctuation at December 31, 2011. Equity investments are included in other assets in our consolidated balance sheets. (dollars in millions) CostBasis FairValue CarryingValue UnrealizedGain (Loss),Net of TaxBM&FBOVESPA S.A. $262.9 $527.7 $527.7 $168.1Bolsa Mexicana de Valores, S.A.B. de C.V. 17.3 18.8 18.8 1.0IMAREX ASA 3.8 6.3 6.3 1.6We do not currently hedge against equity price risk. Equity investments are assessed for other than temporary impairment on a quarterly basis. An assessment of whether an equity investment is other than temporarily impaired takes into consideration the magnitude and duration of the unrealized loss. At December 31, 2011, we determined that none of the equity investments listed above were other than temporarily impaired.56Table of Contents
 
