FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20021030121809.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
 
 
     All of the information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibits, is being furnished pursuant to Item 9 of Form 8-K. In accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibits, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. Moreover, the information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibits, shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c)  Exhibits.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
     On October 29, 2002, Lincoln National Corporation ("Lincoln") issued a press release announcing third quarter earnings (including a Digest of Earnings) and a settlement of its disputes, disagreements and litigation with Swiss Re Life & Health America Inc. ("Swiss Re"). A copy of such press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. Also, a copy of the Settlement Agreement between Lincoln and Swiss Re dated October 29, 2002 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 30, 2002

 
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Lincoln National Corporation, the parent company of the Lincoln Financial Group of companies, today reported income from operations of $73.0 million, or $.40 per diluted share for its third quarter 2002. By comparison, income from operations for the third quarter of 2001 was $143.2 million, or $.74 per diluted share.
Philadelphia, PA, October 29, 2002 
     Late today, Lincoln reached agreement with Swiss Re regarding the closing balance sheet dispute from the sale of Lincoln's reinsurance business in December of 2001. The settlement agreement provides for a payment of $195 million, which settles all of the $770 million closing balance sheet disputed matters, and results in a $126.8 million, after-tax reduction in the deferred gain on the sale. In addition, Lincoln will pay the $100 million claim liability resulting from the personal accident reserve increase announced last week. There is no longer any ongoing risk sharing of the reinsurance business and the parties have agreed to drop all pending litigation.
     "We are delighted that going forward we have eliminated the uncertainty associated with these matters and can concentrate on our core business fundamentals," said Jon A. Boscia, chairman and chief executive officer. "Our previous market guidance would have projected earnings of $.46 versus the $.40 actually reported.
 
Because of the many moving parts associated with negotiating the Swiss Re settlement and the Unicover Managers arbitration decision, we felt it would not be prudent to comment on earnings before the release," he added. Included in the third quarter net income is a charge of $7 million, after-tax to adjust the cumulative amortization of the deferred gain on the sale resulting from the settlement.
     Regarding the third quarter, consolidated domestic retail deposits, which include annuities, mutual funds and other personal wealth accumulation products, were $3.1 billion for the quarter and $9.4 billion for the first nine months of 2002. As of September 30, 2002, assets under management were $113.5 billion and assets on the company's balance sheet were $90.4 billion.
     "Lincoln's sales were strong and total net flows improved by $495 million over the third quarter 2001. We gained market share and made good progress in a number of key areas. One example of this is expense improvement in each manufacturing segment. We continue to focus on the company's controllables in order to position Lincoln's earnings for growth in better markets," said Boscia. "The decline in our earnings was primarily the result of the continued dramatic equity market downturn, the impact of which was in line with the very detailed guidance we provided right after we reported second quarter earnings," he added.
     For the quarter a net loss of $125.5 million, after-tax was reported, or $.68 per diluted share and includes a $175.5 million, after-tax, increase in reserves on exited reinsurance business, a cumulative deferred gain amortization adjustment of $.9 million after-tax, a net loss on the investment portfolios of $23.4 million and a positive $1.3 million reserve release from true-up of restructuring charges taken in past periods. By comparison, net income for the third quarter of 2001 was $119.1 million, or $.61 per diluted share and included a loss on investments of $24.1 million.
 
Income from operations for Lincoln Retirement was $22.8 million, compared to $72.4 million in the third quarter of 2001. The equity markets impacted the retirement segment by $52.8 million, which included the loss of fee income form declining account balances, DAC unlocking and GMDB payments and reserve increase. New annuity deposits were $1.69 billion, up seven percent over third quarter 2001. Net flows were slightly positive even with the previously announced loss of a $294 million deferred compensation plan in the quarter. In addition, on a year-to date basis, net flows were a positive $380 million, compared to net cash outflows of $526 million in the first nine months of 2001. "Within this segment we've increased market share this year in both fixed and variable businesses while maintaining our pricing discipline and avoiding product features that may compromise future profitability or increase risks," said Boscia.
Life Insurance income from operations was $63.4 million compared to $70.1 million for the third quarter 2001. This quarter's lower results were primarily due to declining equity markets, reduced interest margin and lower partnership investment and hedge fund earnings partially offset by the absence of goodwill amortization. Growth in sales and in-force remain strong. First year retail life insurance premiums were approximately $174 million, an increase of 31 percent over the third quarter 2001, primarily due to higher sales in universal and whole life products. Life insurance in-force increase to $248 billion, up nine percent from a year ago, primarily reflecting strong sales and continued favorable persistency.
Delaware Investments reported third quarter earnings of $4.0 million, down $3.5 million from the same period last year, excluding the amortization of goodwill. "Delaware achieved positive net flows in both institutional and retail funds despite the challenging
 
market conditions and recorded higher asset levels than a year ago which speaks to continued improvement in the fundamentals of the operation," said Boscia.
Lincoln UK reported no earnings in the third quarter versus $10.1 million reported in the same period a year ago. The FTSE under-performed Lincoln's assumptions by 23 percent for the quarter and that had a negative impact on earnings of $15.7 million, primarily the result of unlocking of deferred policy acquisition costs and present value of in-force. The result is in line with the guidance provided.
     Corporate and Other reported a loss of $17.2 million for the third quarter. As of September 30, 2002, the book value of Lincoln National Corporation common stock with securities at cost was $25.61, compared with $26.87 a year ago. Book value with securities at market was $30.37, compared with $28.29 a year ago. During the third quarter, a total of 7.2 million shares were repurchased at a total cost of $247.8 million.
     Lincoln Financial Group will discuss the company's third quarter results in a conference call beginning at 10:00 am (EST) on Wednesday, October 30, 2002.
     Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in Philadelphia, Lincoln Financial Group has consolidated assets over $90 billion and had annual consolidated revenues of $6.4 billion in 2001. Through its wealth accumulation and protection businesses, the company provides annuities, life insurance, 401(k) plans, 529 college savings plans, mutual funds, managed accounts, institutional investment and financial planning and advisory services.
 
Certain statements made in this press release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act"). Forward-looking statements include, without limitation, any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "estimate," "project," "will," "shall" and other words or phrases with similar meaning.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among others, subsequent significant changes in: the company (e.g., acquisitions and divestitures of legal entities and blocks of business  directly or by means of reinsurance transactions including the recently completed divestiture of LNC's reinsurance business); financial markets (e.g., interest rates and securities markets); competitors and competing products and services; LNC's ability to operate its businesses in a relatively normal manner; legislation (e.g., corporate, individual, estate and product taxation); the price of LNC's stock; accounting principles generally accepted in the United States; regulations (e.g., insurance and securities regulations); and debt and claims paying ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations.
Other risks and uncertainties include: the risk that significant accounting, fraud or corporate governance issues may adversely affect the value of certain investments; whether necessary regulatory approvals are obtained (e.g., insurance department, Hart-Scott-Rodino, etc.) and, if obtained, whether they are obtained on a timely basis; whether proceeds from divestitures of legal entities and blocks of business can be used as planned; litigation, arbitration and other actions [e.g., a) adverse decisions in significant actions including but not limited to extracontractual and class action damage cases, b) new decisions which change the law, c) unexpected trial court rulings, d) unavailability of witnesses and e) newly discovered evidence]; acts of God (e.g., hurricanes, earthquakes and storms); whether there will be any significant charges or benefits resulting from the contingencies described in the footnotes to LNC's consolidated financial statements; acts of terrorism or war; the stability of governments in countries in which LNC does business; and other insurance risks (e.g., policyholder mortality and morbidity).
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Lincoln National Corporation's annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include additional risks and factors which could impact LNC's business and financial performance. Moreover, LNC operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors. Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on LNC's business or the extent to which any factor or combination of factors may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undo reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results or a projection of earnings.
This press release was issued on October 29, 2002 and all information in this release is as of October 29, 2002. LNC undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statement to conform the statement to actual results or changes in LNC's expectations.
D'Arcy Rudnay 215 448-1454 mediarelations@LFG.com
Media Contact:
Priscilla Brown 215 448-1422 investorrelations@LFG.com
Investor Contact:
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
     (this "Agreement") is entered into on this 29th day of October, 2002 by and among Lincoln National Corporation, an Indiana corporation ("LNC"), The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company, an Indiana insurance company ("LNL"), Lincoln National Reinsurance Company (Barbados) Limited, a Barbadian insurance company ("Lincoln Barbados" and, together with LNC and LNL, the "Lincoln Parties"), and Swiss Re Life & Health America Inc., a Connecticut corporation ("Swiss Re"). Capitalized terms used herein but not defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Purchase Agreement (as defined below).
THIS SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT
     , the Lincoln Parties and Swiss Re are parties to that certain Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of July 27, 2001 (the "Purchase Agreement");
WHEREAS
     , certain disputes and disagreements have arisen between the Lincoln Parties and Swiss Re and certain of its Affiliates regarding the Purchase Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby;
WHEREAS
     , an action was brought by Swiss Re in the United States District Court Southern District of New York captioned ., Case No. 02 Civ. 3177 (RCC) against the Lincoln Parties, and the Lincoln Parties brought various counterclaims against Swiss Re (such original action and the counterclaims being referred to herein as the "Lawsuit"); and
WHEREAS
Swiss Re Life & Health America Inc. v. Lincoln National Corporation, et al
     , the Lincoln Parties and Swiss Re desire to dismiss the Lawsuit and amend and modify certain provisions of the Purchase Agreement.
WHEREAS
     , in consideration for the mutual covenants and promises contained herein, the parties to this Agreement agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
     . In settlement of the Lawsuit and the Lincoln Parties' obligations under Sections 1.04, 1.05 and 5.20 of the Purchase Agreement, not later than November 5, 2002, LNL shall pay Swiss Re $295,000,000 (the "Settlement Payment") in cash by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account designated in writing by Swiss Re. Effective upon Swiss Re's receipt of the Settlement Payment, each of the Lincoln Parties and Swiss Re shall be relieved of all of its respective obligations and waives all of its respective rights under Sections 1.04, 1.05 and 5.20 of the Purchase Agreement. Not later than the second Business Day after Swiss Re's receipt of the Settlement Payment, the Lincoln Parties and Swiss Re shall file with the court a stipulation of dismissal of the Lawsuit with prejudice.
1.     
Settlement of Lawsuit and Certain Obligations
     . In connection with the settlement of the Lawsuit as set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement, with respect to the ILX 95 Agreements (as
2.     
ILX 95 Agreements
 
defined in the last sentence of this Section 2), (a) the Lincoln Parties and Swiss Re acknowledge that neither LNL nor Lincoln Barbados nor any Affiliate of LNL or Lincoln Barbados will transfer to Swiss Re or any Affiliate of Swiss Re investment assets representing any "funds withheld" liability arising out of the ILX 95 Agreements, (b) LNL shall retain the funds withheld investment assets and liability under the ILX 95 Agreements and (c) the ILX 95 Agreements shall continue to apply to the flow of funds and the respective rights of the parties thereunder. The ILX 95 Agreements means (i) the Reinsurance Agreement between LNL, as ceding company, and Lincoln Barbados, as reinsurer, effective as of January 1, 1995, (ii) the Assignment among LNL, Lincoln Barbados and Lincoln Bermuda pursuant to which Lincoln Barbados has assigned all of its rights and obligations under the agreement referred to in clause (i) of this sentence to Lincoln Bermuda, (iii) the Retrocession Agreement between Lincoln Bermuda, as ceding company, and Lincoln Barbados, as retrocessionaire, effective as of December 31, 1999 and (iv) all schedules, amendments, supplements and modifications to any of the agreements referred to in clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) of this sentence.
     .
3.     Miscellaneous
 
          , the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION
THE LINCOLN NATIONAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
LINCOLN NATIONAL REINSURANCE COMPANY (BARBADOS) LIMITED
SWISS RE LIFE & HEALTH AMERICA INC.


