FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20030130112527.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
Table of Contents
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
(Registrant's telephone number)
Table of Contents
     
All of the information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibits, is being furnished pursuant to Item 9 of Form 8-K. In accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibits, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. Moreover, the information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibits, shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     .
(c)  Exhibits
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
     On January 29, 2003, The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company issued a press release announcing a realignment of operations. A copy of such press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     On January 29, 2003, Lincoln Financial Group issued a press release announcing completion of a previously disclosed review of product assumptions. A copy of such press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
New Wire Release
Hartford, CT, January 29, 2003  Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC), the parent company of the Lincoln Financial Group of companies, announced today that its life segment will realign its operations in Hartford, CT and Schaumburg, IL to enhance productivity, efficiency and scalability while positioning the manufacturer for future growth.
Lincoln Life's operation in Schaumburg, IL, the First Penn-Pacific Life Insurance Company, will focus exclusively on the Term product-line under the Lincoln Life brand. MoneyGuard, First Penn's linked-benefit Universal Life product, and all shared services in that location, will be consolidated in Hartford, CT. As a result, approximately 100 life insurance positions in Schaumburg will be eliminated, while 50 new positions will be created in Hartford, CT, to handle the business transitioning to that location. In addition, other Hartford, CT based functions will be streamlined and realigned, resulting in the elimination of approximately 65 workers from that location. Management will begin implementation of this plan immediately and expects to complete the transition during 2003.
The financial impact of the realignment will result in Lincoln's life segment incurring costs of approximately $15-$17 million, net of tax during the 2003 year. While the company expects to begin seeing some savings in the second half of 2003, the bulk of the savings will be realized in 2004, at which time it would expect to reduce its operating and administrative expense run rate by $15-$20 million pre-tax.
*Lincoln Life is the Life Insurance segment of Lincoln National Life Insurance Company, a subsidiary of Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC). First Penn-Pacific Life Insurance Company is a subsidiary of Lincoln National Life Insurance Company, and is part of the company's life segment. Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Life Insurance Company. With headquarters in Philadelphia, PA, Lincoln Financial Group has consolidated assets of over $90 billion and had annual consolidated revenues of $6.4 billion in 2001. Through its wealth accumulation and protection businesses, the company provides annuities, life insurance, 401(k) plans, 529 college savings plans, mutual funds, managed accounts, institutional investment and financial planning and advisory services.

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
     
NEWS RELEASE
, January 29, 2003  Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE: LNC), the parent company of the Lincoln Financial Group of companies, announced today that it is making changes to its assumptions underlying capitalized sales and acquisitions costs (Deferred Acquisition Cost (DAC) and Present Value of In-Force (PVIF)), and Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefit (GMDB) reserves. The change in assumptions will result in a $34.5 million after-tax charge in the fourth quarter.
PHILADELPHIA
PA,
     "As previously disclosed, we engaged in a thorough analysis of the above items during the fourth quarter. Given the continued weakness in the equity markets we believe that adjustments to certain assumptions in our variable annuity and life businesses are appropriate. The immediate financial impact of these changes was better than most analysts anticipated and should have a slightly positive impact on future earnings," said Jon A. Boscia, chairman and chief executive officer of Lincoln Financial Group.
     The assumption changes include resetting the prospective equity market return rate to nine percent in both variable annuity and life businesses. Also, variable annuity persistency assumptions and amortization periods were revised. The company will take a charge in the fourth quarter of $13.0 million in DAC and PVIF adjustments, consisting of $8.8 million in the Retirement Segment and $4.2 million in the Life Segment. The changed assumptions will also result in a $21.5 million charge for increases in GMDB reserves in the Retirement Segment, bringing the total fourth quarter impact of these adjustments to $34.5 million, after-tax.
     "While we lengthened the amortization periods for some products, our actions included significantly shortening the amortization periods for "L" and "C" shares which have been growth vehicles
 
for variable annuity providers. We took this action to reflect lower persistency now anticipated for these classes," said Lorry Stensrud, chief executive officer of Lincoln Retirement.
     The company expects to report its fourth quarter and full-year 2002 earnings on Tuesday, February 11, 2003.
     Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in Philadelphia, Lincoln Financial Group has consolidated assets of more than $90 billion and had annual consolidated revenues of $6.4 billion in 2001. Through its wealth accumulation and protection businesses, the company provides annuities, life insurance, 401(k) and other employer sponsored retirement plans, 529 college savings plans, mutual funds, managed accounts, institutional investment and financial planning and advisory services.


