FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20030807171450.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     .
(c)  Exhibits
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Lincoln Financial Group issued a press release dated August 4, 2003, announcing actions Lincoln will be taking to position its businesses for emerging opportunities and providing details on previously announced realignment. A copy of such press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Lincoln Financial Group issued a press release dated August 7, 2003, announcing Lincoln National Corporation's 2003 2 quarter earnings. A copy of such press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
nd
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 7, 2003

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE: LNC), the parent company of the Lincoln Financial Group of companies, today reported it has taken further actions to position the Company for future growth by improving the Company's organizational effectiveness and competitive ability to develop and deliver products.
Philadelphia, PA, August 4, 2003
     The planned actions will impact all domestic operations, and includes new initiatives as well as the previously announced realignment of Lincoln's life and annuity businesses in Fort Wayne, Indiana; Hartford, Connecticut and Schaumburg, Illinois. These actions are estimated to result in pre-tax expense savings of $25 million in 2003, growing to $80 million in 2004 and, ultimately, $105 million in 2005. Offsetting the savings are related pre-tax charges, which are estimated at $135 million over three years, with an estimated $95 million in 2003, $30 million in 2004 and $10 million in 2005. In the first quarter of 2003, $6.4 million of the charge was taken and $15.2 million of the charge will be recognized in the second quarter of 2003. Future quarterly impact will vary based on timing of specific actions, including layoffs. The number of job
 
eliminations is expected to range between 800 and 1000, including approximately 200 which have occurred to date. The expense savings estimates should be viewed against 2002 incurred expenses.
     Also offsetting the savings are pre-tax investments in business growth initiatives, of which approximately $15 million will be incurred in 2003, $30 million in 2004 and $35 million in 2005. "GAAP accounting for restructuring costs changed in January 2003. We can no longer record the costs at the time the decision is made and announced. The new GAAP requirement causes us to take charges in each individual quarter as the liability is incurred," said Richard C. Vaughan, chief financial officer of Lincoln Financial Group. "Both approaches get you to the identical ongoing earnings rate, but the interim reporting is different. The internal rate of return on our investment is estimated to be 40% using a five-year planning period starting in 2004."
     The net impact to after-tax earnings from the investments in business growth initiatives, expense savings and charges is estimated to result in a net charge of $55 million in 2003. However, in 2004, the Company estimates a net savings of $13 million and, in 2005, a net savings of $39 million. Again using actual incurred expenses in 2002 as a baseline, the savings in the operating expense run-rate beginning in 2006 is estimated at $45 million after-tax.
     The Company also reported today that it expects second quarter 2003 income from operations, which is the measure of earnings projected by analysts, to be in line with current analyst consensus estimates of $0.86 per share as reported by First Call.
     "As we have previously stated, Lincoln is taking measures to position the organization for emerging opportunities in the long term while prudently responding to environmental issues affecting profitability in the near term," said Jon A. Boscia,
 
chairman and chief executive officer of Lincoln Financial Group. "In anticipation of consumer needs moving toward products that address the full spectrum of wealth management, including income generation and wealth transfer, we determined that a realignment of our businesses was necessary. This will enable us to build greater flexibility into our manufacturing platforms and foster greater product development capability, while building upon our distribution strengths. These changes will allow for faster speed to market of products, better communications among manufacturing platforms and distribution channels as well as greater overall efficiency. Our belief is that the most successful providers will ultimately be the most efficient ones and that this new approach will position us well to capitalize on future growth opportunities."
     Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE: LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in Philadelphia, Lincoln Financial Group has consolidated assets of $92 billion and had annual consolidated revenues of $4.6 billion in 2002. Through its wealth accumulation and protection businesses, the company provides annuities, life insurance, 401(k) and 403(b) plans, 529 college savings plans, mutual funds, managed accounts, institutional investment and financial planning and advisory services.
 
Certain statements made in this press release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Act"). A forward-looking statement is any statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: "believe", "anticipate", "expect", "estimate", "project", "will", "shall" and other words or phrases with similar meaning. LNC claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the Act.
Forward Looking Statements  Cautionary Language
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, among others, subsequent significant changes in:
Other risks and uncertainties include:
 
     The risks included here are not exhaustive. LNC's annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include additional factors which could impact LNC's business and financial performance. Moreover, LNC operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
     Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on LNC's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undo reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual resultsIn addition, LNC disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this press release.
.
 
Definition of Income from Operations
Income from operations represents after-tax results excluding, as applicable, realized gains or losses on investments and derivatives, restructuring charges, reserve changes on business sold through reinsurance, gain on sale of subsidiaries and certain other items. Income from operations is an internal measure used by the company in the management of its operations. Management believes that this performance measure explains the results of the company's ongoing operations in a manner that allows for a better understanding of the underlying trends in the company's current business.

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
- Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC), the parent company of the Lincoln Financial Group of companies, today reported net income of $142.7 million, or $0.80 per diluted share for its second quarter of 2003. By comparison, net income for the second quarter of 2002 was $48.5 million, or $0.26 per diluted share.
Philadelphia, PA, August 7, 2003
     Income from operations for the second quarter of 2003 was $153.3 million, or $0.86 per diluted share compared with $116.4 million, or $0.62 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2002. The attached table reconciles net income to income from operations for the corporation and its business segments.
     The increase in the equity markets from March 31, 2003, had a positive $31 million impact on Lincoln's results in the second quarter, which was in line with guidance.
     "After weathering many quarters of either steep equity market declines or lackluster market improvements, this year's second quarter ended with the S&P 500 up nearly 15 percent which positively impacted our equity-sensitive products and businesses," said Jon A. Boscia, chairman and chief executive officer. "Our continued focus on the fundamentals resulted in another quarter of positive net flows across all of our domestic businesses, solid investment management performance in Delaware, robust sales in the life segment and early indications of strong market acceptance of our new annuity product enhancements. The
 
credit markets also showed some improvement which resulted in fewer impairments and a marked decline in unrealized losses in our fixed income investment portfolio," added Boscia.
     Domestic retail deposits, which include annuities, mutual funds and other wealth accumulation and protection products, were $3 billion for the quarter. As of June 30, 2003, assets under management were $127 billion and the company's total assets were nearly $100 billion.
     Life Insurance net income was $65.6 million versus $56.7 million for the same period a year ago. Income from operations for the segment was $71.8 million, down from $72.8 million in the second quarter of 2002. Retail sales grew 11 percent in the quarter versus the year ago period, driven by strong sales in fixed products, including Universal Life, which increased 44 percent over the second quarter of 2002. "Our life product portfolio continues to offer unparalleled breadth with exceptional features and competitive pricing which positions the company for sales growth in dynamic markets," said Boscia.
     Net income for the Retirement segment was $81.7 million, compared to $9.2 million for the second quarter of 2002. Second quarter operating income for the segment was $86.1 million compared to $46.8 million in the year ago period.
     "In June, we rolled out our withdrawal benefit, Principal Security, which offers clients flexibility and control of their assets while meeting our conservative risk profile and capital requirements," said Boscia. "With less than one month of activity in the second quarter, and one month so far in the third quarter, sales results are promising," he added.
 
     Delaware Investments reported net income of $4.6 million versus a net loss of $.8 million in the same period a year ago. Income from operations for the segment was $4.5 million in the second quarter, which compares to $.3 million of operating loss in the second quarter of 2002. Net flows for the quarter were a positive $591 million versus a positive $622 million for the same period in 2002. "In the second quarter, 21 of our 25 largest retail mutual funds outperformed their Lipper average year-to-date and 18 out of the 25 largest retail mutual funds outperformed for the three years ending June 30, 2003. Three additional funds received either a four or five-star rating from Morningstar, as compared to March 31, 2003. On the institutional side, 6 out of 8 asset categories outperformed their respective benchmarks for the trailing twelve months and 7 out of 8 outperformed their benchmarks for the three-year period ending June 30, 2003," added Boscia.
Lincoln UK
     For the second quarter, the UK segment reported net income and operating income of $12.4 million versus net income of $9.3 million and operating income of $6.1 million in the second quarter of 2002. The increase was attributable to the improved equity market impact.
     Corporate and Other, which includes financing, distribution losses, and the amortization of the deferred gain from the reinsurance business sold in 2001, reported a net loss of $21.6 million for the second quarter versus a net loss of $25.9 million for the same period a year ago. The operating loss for the second quarter of 2003 was $21.5 million, versus an operating loss of $9 million in the second quarter of 2002. Slightly higher distribution losses combined with less earnings on proceeds from the sale of reinsurance and miscellaneous other items caused the decline.
     As of June 30, 2003, the book value of Lincoln National Corporation common stock, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income, was $26.41, compared with $27.21 a year ago. Book value, including accumulated other
 
comprehensive income, was $32.68 compared with $29.01 a year ago.
     Lincoln National Corporation's earnings material, including the LNC Statistical Supplement for the quarter ended June 30, 2003, will be posted on the company's website at: www.LFG.com/investor at 7:00 am (EDT) on Thursday, August 7, 2003 followed by an investors' conference call beginning at 10:00 am (EDT) at which time the company will discuss its second quarter results.
     Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in Philadelphia, Lincoln Financial Group has consolidated assets of nearly $100 billion and had annual consolidated revenues of $4.6 billion in 2002. Through its wealth accumulation and protection businesses, the company provides annuities, life insurance, 401(k) and 403(b) plans, 529 college savings plans, mutual funds, managed accounts, institutional investment and financial planning and advisory services.
 
Definition of Income from Operations
Income from operations represents after-tax results excluding, as applicable, realized gains or losses on investments and derivatives, restructuring charges, reserve changes on business sold through reinsurance, gain on sale of subsidiaries and certain other items. Income from operations is an internal measure used by the company in the management of its operations. Management believes that this performance measure explains the results of the company's ongoing operations in a manner that allows for a better understanding of the underlying trends in the company's current business.
 
*Second Quarter and Six Months of 2002 includes the effect of LNC's retroactive adoption of the fair value method of accounting for stock options under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123, as amended by SFAS No. 148.


