FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20031029163616.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure (Also being provided under new Item 12 Results of Operations and Financial Condition). The information in this Report, including the attached Exhibit, is "furnished" pursuant to Item 9 and Item 12 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K or specific parts of it. The furnishing of the information contained in the attached exhibit (statistical supplement) is not intended and should not be construed to imply that such information is material. Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits. Exhibit Number Description - -------- ------------------------------------------------------------------- 99.1 Lincoln National Corporation Statistical Supplement for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2003 Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition See Item 9, Regulation FD Disclosure, above. Lincoln Financial Group Statistical Report Third Quarter 2003 Table of Contents - ------------------ LFG Analyst Coverage Notes Financial Highlights 1 - 4 Eleven-Year Summary 5 Quarterly Summary 6 Reconciliation of Business Segments to Consolidated Income Statement 7 - 8 Statement of Consolidated Income 9 - 10 Reconciliation of Business Segments to Consolidated Balance Sheets 11 - 12 Five-Year Comparative Balance Sheet 13 Quarterly Balance Sheet 14 Lincoln Retirement - ------------------ Income Statement & Operational Data 15 - 16 Account Value Roll Forward 17 - 18 Life Insurance - -------------- Income Statement 19 - 20 Operational Data 21 Account Value Roll Forward 22 - 23 Investment Management - --------------------- Income Statement 24 - 25 Assets Under Management Roll Forward 26 - 27 Lincoln UK - ---------- Income Statement 28 - 29 Operational Data 30 Other Operations 31 - ---------------- Consolidated - ------------ Domestic Retail Deposits / Account Balances 32 Total Domestic Net Flows 32 Assets Managed 33 Investment Data 34 Common Stock / Debt Information 35 Retroactive Adoption of FAS 123 36 9/30/03 ii NOTES Definitions and Presentation * Income from Operations represents after-tax results excluding, as applicable, realized gains or losses on investments and derivatives, restructuring charges, the cumulative effect of accounting changes, reserve changes on business sold through reinsurance, net of related deferred gain amortization, gains or on losses on sale of subsidiaries and certain other items. Income from Operations is an internal measure used by LNC in the management of its operations. Management believes that this performance measure explains the results of operations of the LNC's ongoing operations in a manner that allows for a better understanding of the underlying trends in LNC's current business. * Operating revenue represents revenue excluding, as applicable, realized gains and losses on investments and derivatives, deferred gain amortization related to reserve changes on business sold through reinsurance, gains or losses on sale of subsidiaries, and certain other items. * Return on capital measures the effectiveness of LNC's use of its total capital, which is made up of equity, debt and hybrid securities. Return on capital is calculated by dividing income from operations (after adding back interest expense) by average capital. The difference between return on capital and return on shareholders' equity represents the affect of leveraging on LNC's consolidated results. * Accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) represents unrealized gains (losses) on investments, net gain on derivative instruments, cumulative translation adjustments and minimum pension liability adjustments, net of tax. * Certain operating and statistical measures are included in this report to provide supplemental data that indicate trends in LNC's current business. These measures include deposits, net flows, first year premium, inforce and assets under management. * Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior periods to conform to the September 30, 2003 presentation. Accounting Changes * Effective January 1, 2003, LNC adopted the fair value recognition method of accounting for it stock option incentive plans under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("FAS") No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-based Compensation" (FAS 123). LNC adopted the retroactive restatment method under FAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-based Compensation - Transition and Disclosure." As a result, LNC has chosen to restate 2000, 2001, and 2002 to reflect stock-based compensation cost under the fair value method in FAS 123 for all employee awards granted, modified or settled in fiscal years beginning after December 31, 1994. See page 36 for details on the restatement by segment.


