FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20041118161154.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02.   Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
        On November 18, 2004, LNC publicly announced that Frederick J. Crawford has been appointed to succeed Richard C. Vaughan as Chief Financial Officer effective on the date of Mr. Vaughan's retirement, which is anticipated to occur during March 2005. Mr. Crawford, age 41, has served as Vice President and Treasurer of LNC since January 2001. As Treasurer of Lincoln, Mr. Crawford is responsible for corporate finance, capital management and rating agency relationships. Mr. Crawford joined LNC after a 13-year banking career with Bank One Corporation, lastly holding the title of President of Bank OneCincinnati from October 1999 to December 2000. As President of Bank OneCincinnati, Mr. Crawford was in charge of all banking operations in Cincinnati, Ohio. Mr. Crawford's prior positions included that of Senior Banker in the Insurance Banking Division of Bank One, managing a portfolio of insurance company relationships.
Item 7.01.   Regulation FD Disclosure.
A news release attached hereto as Exhibit 99 is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibit is being furnished with this Form 8-K.
Exhibit                           
Number
Description
99                           News release dated November 18, 2004.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit                           
Number
Description
99                           News release dated November 18, 2004.

NEWS RELEASE
-Lincoln Financial Group (NYSE:LNC) today outlined the succession plan for the previously announced retirement of Richard C. Vaughan, executive vice president and chief financial officer. Frederick J. Crawford, vice president and treasurer of Lincoln Financial Group, has been named to succeed Vaughan, effective upon Vaughan's retirement in March 2005. A replacement for Crawford will be named at a later date.
PHILADELPHIA, Nov. 18, 2004
"Rich has been central to our efforts to become a leader in the insurance and financial services arenas," said Jon A. Boscia, chairman and chief executive officer of Lincoln Financial Group. "We will benefit from Rich's continued leadership through the close of the 2004 financial reporting cycle and during this transition."
Crawford has served as vice president and treasurer of Lincoln Financial since January 2001. "In a relatively short period of time with Lincoln, Fred has had a significant impact on our financial team and our business," said Boscia. "In the process he has gained the respect of the senior leadership team and built considerable credibility with bankers, rating agencies, and our Board of Directors. We have every confidence that Fred will continue his tradition of strong financial leadership in his new role."
As treasurer, Crawford is responsible for corporate finance, capital management, and rating agency relationships. He joined Lincoln Financial after a 13-year banking career, most recently holding the title of president, Bank One-Cincinnati. Crawford's prior positions included that of senior banker in the Insurance Banking Division of Bank One, managing a portfolio of insurance company relationships. He earned a bachelor's degree in business administration from Indiana State University and a master of business administration degree from the University of Iowa.
Lincoln Financial Group today also made the following organizational announcements:
"These appointments to key positions on our management team are a reflection of our bench strength and talent pool within Lincoln Financial Group," added Boscia. "It's an example of proactive succession planning at its best, and maintains continuity in critical areas of the company."
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in Philadelphia, Lincoln Financial Group had consolidated assets of $110 billion as of Sept. 30, 2004, and had annual consolidated revenues of $5.3 billion in 2003. Through its wealth accumulation and protection businesses, the company provides annuities, life insurance, 401(k) and 403(b) plans, 529 college savings plans, mutual funds, managed accounts, institutional investment and financial planning and advisory services.


