FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20040210171055.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure (Also being provided under Item 12, Results of Operations and Financial Condition).
 
The information in this Report, including the attached Exhibit, is "furnished" pursuant to Item 9 and Item 12 of this Form 8-K. Consequently, it is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act of 1933 if such subsequent filing specifically references this Form 8-K or specific parts of it. The furnishing of the information contained in the attached exhibit (statistical supplement) is not intended and should not be construed to imply that such information is material.
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
See Item 9, Regulation FD Disclosure, above.
 
On February 9, 2004 Lincoln National Corporation filed Form 8-K furnishing its statistical supplement for the quarter ended December 31, 2003. This Form 8-K/A is furnishing the identical statistical supplement with the exception that the page "Life Insurance SegmentOperational Data" has been revised to provide additional detail for first year premiums by product for the universal life product.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: February 10, 2004

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Definitions and Presentation
 
 
that allows for a better understanding of the underlying trends in LNC's current business.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accounting Changes
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE: Excludes amounts reported as Assets Under Management - Insurance Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


