FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20050512171936.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
(a)
 
On May 12, 2005, at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, our shareholders approved an amendment and restatement to Lincoln National Corporation Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended and restated on March 8, 2001. A description of the amendment and restatement is incorporated herein by reference from pages 37-44 of our Proxy Statement in connection with the May 12, 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The Amended and Restated Lincoln National Corporation Incentive Compensation Plan is attached as Exhibit 8 to the Proxy Statement.
The Compensation Committees framework for long-term performance awards under the Amended and Restated Incentive Compensation Plan is included in Exhibit 10(a) hereto. The form of long-term incentive award agreement for awards granted under the Plan is filed as Exhibit 10(b) hereto.
(b)
 
On May 12, 2005, the Board of Directors approved an amendment and restatement to the Lincoln National Corporation Executives Severance Benefit Plan to:
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
The press release announcing, among other things, actions taken at the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on May 12, 2005 and included as Exhibit 99 is incorporated herein by reference. The results of the shareholder vote on the items of business before the Annual Meeting will be reported in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ending June 30, 2005.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are included with this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION
 
By
 
/s/ Frederick J. Crawford
Name: Frederick J. Crawford
Title: Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
 
Date: May 12, 2005
 

Exhibit 10(a)
Award Program Intent
The intent of this award program is to:
Payout Philosophy
The LTIP is intended to provide compensation relative to market compensation consistent with LNCs compensation philosophy. The LTIP is performance leveraged. Performance below the 60
th
percentile is rewarded with below market compensation. Similarly, performance above the 60
th
percentile is rewarded with compensation greater than that achieved within our comparison market for the same performance achievement.
Maximum award will be paid when performance is in the upper quartile. The minimum payout will be awarded at the equivalent of the 25
th
percentile. Market compensation (or target payout) will be awarded at the equivalent of performance at the 60
th
percentile. The minimum award will be 25% of target and the maximum award will be 200% of target.
For those performance measures which are absolute, an analysis will be made when setting the performance targets to make sure they are set consistently with the above philosophy.
Cycle Duration
Three-year cycles will be established on a calendar year basis.
Cycle Frequency
A new cycle will start each year upon approval by the Committee and run concurrently with other cycles. Three cycles will be in effect at the same time.
Performance Measures
Performance measures will be absolute return on equity (ROE) and EPS growth, both based on income from operations, and relative total shareholder return (TSR). At the beginning of the cycle, usually at its March meeting, the Compensation Committee will set minimum, targets, and maximum performance levels for each measure.
 
 
 
 
LNC TSR performance will be compared to that of the S&P 500. The minimum award will be paid for performance at the 25
th
percentile, target at the 60
th
percentile, and maximum at the 75
th
percentile. Only those companies included in the index at the beginning of the cycle will be included for determination of LNCs percentile ranking.
Payout Adjustments
The Compensation Committee retains the right to modify payouts at the end of the cycle based on extraordinary circumstances during the cycle.
The Committee can consider factors impacting results such as changing economic and market conditions, mergers or acquisitions, sale of a business, restructuring charges, reserve strengthening or release.
In making adjustments, the Committee may consider investor reaction, stock price performance, performance of peers and the CEOs recommendation. The guiding principle in making adjustments should be to encourage and reward management for consistently high financial and shareholder return performance relative to peers.
Form of Compensation
At the beginning of each performance cycle, the Compensation Committee (no later than its March meeting) will designate both the award target and range for each participant. LTIP compensation will be paid in cash, shares, options or a combination of these. Seven defined mix combinations will be offered to participants; the participant will select one at the beginning of the cycle.
The relative dollar values for stock options, stock and cash are as follows:
 
The seven combinations from which participants may select are the following:
1. All options (100% of target, no discount)
2. 50% shares, 50% options (100% of target, no discount)
3. All shares (100% of target, no discount)
4. 33% cash, 33.5% shares, 33.5% options (100% of target, no discount)
5. 33% cash, 67% options (100% of target, no discount)
6. 33% cash, 67% shares (100% of target, no discount)
       
7. All cash (78% of target)
All Cash is an alternative only for those who meet their full, five-year, share ownership requirement.
The company retains the right to restrict the number of options in order to limit dilution. If the pool of options designated for the cycle is exceeded, each participants share of the pool will be reduced proportionately on an equal basis. They will be asked to select an alternative replacement for the portion reduced, shares or cash, at the above-designated ratios.
Participants make their selections at the beginning of the cycle, no later than March of the first year of the cycle. All forms of compensation selected will cliff vest (100% at the completion of the three-year performance cycle) based on LTIP performance. The value of shares and stock options is calculated based on their value the day the target award is made by the Compensation Committee not later than March. Changes in stock prices during the performance cycle will be to the participants advantage or disadvantage. No adjustments are made at the end of the cycle for stock price changes. If shares are selected, dividends will accumulate on these shares during the performance cycle and vest based on LTIP performance. The award range is from 25% of target to 200% of target.
 
 
 
For those selecting options, payouts for performance above target will be in shares. The calculation of the amount of shares will be based on the price in effect at the beginning of the cycle when share values were determined and will include dividends earned. Options have a ten-year life from date of grant (not vesting).
Participants
All individuals designated by the CEO and approved by the Compensation Committee will participate in the award program.
Note: During the term of the cycle, shares selected will be in the form of performance stock units. Actual shares of stock will be issued for all vested units upon completion of the cycle. EPS is defined as operating income per diluted share.

Exhibit 10(b)
This award agreement (Agreement), by and between Lincoln National Corporation (LNC) and __________ 
 
(Grantee), evidences the grant by LNC on___________, of a long-term incentive award to Grantee and Grantees acceptance of the award in accordance with and subject to the provisions of the Lincoln National Corporation Incentive Compensation Plan (Plan) and this Agreement. LNC and Grantee agree as follows:
1.
Form of Award.
Grantee has elected to receive Grantees target award for this performance cycle as follows: __________ 
 
nonqualified stock options to purchase LNC common stock at $
_
 for each share,
_ 
shares of LNC common stock and
 
 
in cash. Grantees actual award, if any, will be determined based on performance during the performance cycle in accordance with the terms of the Plan and the Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) approved by the Compensation Committee of the LNC Board of Directors (Committee). The Committee shall determine if and when any award is payable under the Plan and reserves the right to adjust the amount of any award under the Plan at any time. The number of options and shares under this Agreement, if any, shall be adjusted appropriately in the event of a stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, or other similar event.
2.
Transferability.
This award may not be transferred, sold, pledged, or otherwise encumbered, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
3.
Consequences of Competitive and Other Activity.
Any award under this Agreement is subject to the following requirements:
(a)
Noncompetition.
 
Grantee may not render services for any organization or engage directly or indirectly in any business that, in the sole judgment of the Chief Executive Officer of LNC or other senior officer designated by the Committee, is or becomes competitive with LNC. If Grantee has terminated employment, Grantee shall be free, however, to purchase, as an investment or otherwise, stock or other securities of such organization or business so long as they are listed upon a recognized securities exchange or traded over-the-counter and such investment does not represent a greater than five percent equity interest in the organization or business.
(b)
Nondisclosure.
Grantee shall not, without prior written authorization from LNC, disclose to anyone outside of LNC, or use in other than LNCs business, any confidential information or material relating to the business of LNC that is acquired by Grantee either during or after employment with LNC.
(c)
Inventions or Ideas.
Grantee shall disclose promptly and assign to LNC all right, title, and interest in any invention or idea, patentable or not, made or conceived by Grantee during employment by LNC, relating in any manner to the actual or anticipated business, research or development work of LNC and shall do anything reasonably necessary to enable LNC to secure a patent where appropriate in the United States and in foreign countries. Grantee must provide LNC with a certification of compliance with these provisions prior to the exercise of any option and prior to payment of any cash or share award. Failure to comply with these provisions at any
 
 
 
 
time prior to, or during the six months after, any such exercise or payment shall cause such exercise or payment to be rescinded. LNC must notify Grantee in writing of any such rescission. LNC, in its discretion, may waive compliance in whole or part in any individual case. Within ten days after receiving a rescission notice from LNC, Grantee must pay LNC the amount of any gain realized or payment received (net of any withholding or other taxes paid by Grantee) as a result of the rescinded exercise or payment. Such payment by Grantee must be made either in cash or by returning the shares Grantee received in connection with the rescinded exercise or payment. If Grantees employment is terminated by LNC and its subsidiaries other than for fraud or other fidelity crimes, however, a failure of Grantee to comply with the noncompetition provisions after such termination shall not in itself cause rescission if the exercise or payment occurred before the termination.
4.
Tax Withholding.
In reference to an
option award
, LNC shall not issue shares until any required tax withholding payments are remitted to LNC by Grantee; and LNC may permit Grantee to surrender shares or withhold shares (from those that would otherwise be issued on exercise of the option) to satisfy tax withholding obligations. In reference to a
share award
, Grantee must remit to LNC an amount equal to the required tax withholding on the value of the shares payable under this Agreement at such time as they are taxable to Grantee; and Grantee may elect to surrender shares of LNC stock (including shares that are a part of this award) to satisfy all or part of the required tax withholding. In reference to a
cash award
, LNC will withhold any required taxes from the award (federal, state, and local income, employment, and other taxes).
5.
Change in Control.
 
Upon a Change in Control of LNC (as defined in the Plan), the Committee (as it shall have existed on the day immediately preceding such Change in Control) shall determine what, if any, award under this Agreement shall be provided to Grantee. In making such determination, the Committee shall consider the nature of such Change in Control, whether continuation of the Plan and payment of awards for this performance cycle are feasible, and whether the resulting corporate entity offers or commits to offer awards of comparable economic value; provided, however, that the Committees determination shall be consistent with existing LNC plans such as the LNC Incentive Compensation Plan and the LNC Executives Severance Benefit Plan.
 
6.
Deferral.
Pursuant to the LNC Executive Deferred Compensation Plan for Employees and if eligible for such Plan, Grantee may elect to defer receipt of any share or cash award under this Agreement, in the time and manner specified by the Benefits Administrator for such Plan.
 
 
7.
Definitions.
As used in this Agreement:
 
Total Disability means (as determined by the Committee) a disability that results in Grantee being unable to engage in any occupation or employment for wage or profit for which Grantee is, or becomes, reasonably qualified by training, education or experience. In addition, the disability must have lasted six months and be expected to continue for at least six more months or be expected to continue unto death.
Retirement
means, for purposes of this Agreement, Grantees retirement from LNC or a subsidiary at age 65 or older with at least five years of service (with LNC or a subsidiary) or, with the approval of Grantees employer, at age 55 or older with at least five years of such service.
Cause means (as determined by the Committee): (1) a conviction of a felony, or other fraudulent or willful misconduct by Grantee that is materially and demonstrably injurious to the business or reputation of LNC, or (2) the willful and continued failure of Grantee to substantially perform Grantees duties with LNC or a subsidiary (other than such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness), after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to Grantee by Grantees manager which specifically identifies the manner in which the manager believes that Grantee has not substantially performed Grantees duties.
8.
Full or Pro-Rata Awards Upon Certain Events.
 
Except as provided in this section and section 5, if during the performance cycle Grantees employment (with LNC and all subsidiaries of LNC) terminates for any reason, Grantee shall not be entitled to any award under this Agreement. In the case of a Grantee's removal from the Award Program because of a change in responsibilities, death, Total Disability, Retirement, or involuntary termination of employment with LNC and all affiliates without Cause, Grantee (or Grantee's beneficiary, if applicable) shall receive a pro-rated award based on the ratio of days of employment during the three-year performance cycle (3 x 365 days = 1,095). Any such award shall be paid at the same time long-term incentive awards are normally paid to employees who are employed at the end of the performance cycle. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of such involuntary termination, any award shall be contingent on Grantee's release of claims against LNC and its affiliates (in form and substance satisfactory to LNC) and shall not be paid unless such release shall have become effective; except that such a release shall not be required when such termination is by reason of the sale or disposition of the business in which Grantee is employed.
9.
Terms Applicable Only to Stock Units/Shares.
During the performance cycle, any share award shall consist of LNC stock units but any actual award shall be payable in shares of LNC common stock. If an award becomes payable in shares of LNC common stock under this Agreement, Grantee shall also receive an amount equal to the dividends that would have been paid on such shares of LNC common stock had Grantee held such shares from the above date of grant through the date the award becomes payable. Such dividend equivalent amount shall be paid in shares of LNC common stock based on the Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan) of LNC common stock on the date the award becomes payable (with fractional shares paid in cash).
10.
Terms Applicable Only to Stock Options.
(a)
Exercise Period.
If and when an actual award of options under this Agreement is made, Grantee may exercise all or part of such options until the first to occur of: (1) the tenth anniversary of the grant date specified in the first paragraph of this Agreement; (2) in the case of Grantees death or Total Disability, the first anniversary of the later of the date on which the Committee approves the award for this cycle or the date of Grantees termination of employment with LNC and all subsidiaries on account of death or Total Disability; (3) in the case of Grantees Retirement, the fifth anniversary of the later of the date on which the Committee approves the award for this cycle or the date of Grantees Retirement; (4) in the case of Grantees involuntary termination of employment with LNC and all subsidiaries (other than a termination on account of fraud or other fidelity crimes), including the sale or disposition of the
 
 
3
 
 business in which Grantee is employed, the date three months after the later of the date on which the Committee approves the award for this cycle or such termination date; and (5) the date that Grantees employment with LNC and all subsidiaries terminates for any reason other than those described in item 2, 3, or 4 of this paragraph. LNC shall determine what constitutes termination of employment but for purposes of this Agreement (i) such termination shall not occur if Grantee has a full-time agents contract with LNC or a subsidiary and (ii) subsidiary shall include any corporation in which LNC has ownership of at least twenty-five percent.
(b)
Manner of Exercise.
To exercise an option, Grantee must, on an LNC business day, (1) deliver, mail or fax written notice of the exercise (in the form specified by LNC) to the LNC stock option administrative group and (2) submit full payment of the exercise price and the certification of compliance described above. Payment may be made in any combination of cash, personal check, or shares of LNC common stock. Such shares must be owned for at least six months and will constitute payment to the extent of their Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan). As soon as practicable after an option is exercised, LNC shall cause the appropriate number of shares of LNC common stock to be issued to Grantee.
(c)
Award Above 100% of Target.
If performance during the performance cycle exceeds 100 percent of target performance, Grantee shall receive shares of LNC common stock equal to the excess option value (prorated, if applicable, in the case of death, Total Disability, Retirement, or involuntary termination of employment as stated above). Excess option value means the dollar value of options in excess of 100 percent of target, determined as described in the Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) approved by the Compensation Committee. Grantee shall also receive an amount equal to the dividends that would have been paid on such shares of LNC common stock had Grantee held such shares from the above date of grant through the date the award becomes payable. Such dividend equivalent amount shall be paid in shares of LNC common stock based on the Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan) of such stock on the date the award becomes payable (with fractional shares paid in cash).
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, LNC, by its duly authorized officer has signed this Agreement as of the first date set forth above.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
PHILADELPHIA, May 12, 2005
 Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC), the parent company of the Lincoln Financial Group of companies, held its annual meeting of shareholders in Philadelphia today.
 
 
In shareholder action, Marcia J. Avedon, PhD., J. Patrick Barrett and Michael F. Mee were elected to three-year terms as directors of LNC. In addition, shareholders ratified the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP, as LNCs independent registered public accounting firm for the year ending December 31, 2005 and approved LNCs Amended and Restated Incentive Compensation Plan.
 
 
In addition, the LNC Board of Directors elected J. Patrick Barrett to serve as lead director and declared a quarterly cash dividend of $.365 per share on the corporation's common shares and $.75 per share on preferred shares. The dividend on the common stock will be payable Aug. 1, 2005 to shareholders of record at the close of business on July 11, 2005. The dividend on the corporation's $3 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock Series A will be payable September 5, 2005 to shareholders of record at the close of business on Aug. 12, 2005.
 
 
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in Philadelphia, Lincoln Financial Group has consolidated assets of $116 billion as of March 31, 2005, and had consolidated revenues of $5.4 billion in 2004. Through its wealth accumulation and protection businesses, the company provides annuities, life insurance, 401(k) and 403(b) plans, 529 college savings plans, mutual funds, managed accounts, institutional investment and financial planning and advisory
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For more information:
 
Investor Contact:
Priscilla Brown
215 448-1422
E-mail:
InvestorRelations@LFG.com
 
Media Contact:
Tom Johnson
215 448-1454
E-mail:
MediaRelations@LFG.com


