FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20050510162516.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
This amendment is being filed solely to correctly present Mean Invested Assets and the Ratio of Adjusted Net Investment Income over Mean Invested Assets for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 on page 35 in our statistical supplement for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. Except for this page, no other information in our Form 8-K for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 has been updated or amended. A revised copy of the statistical supplement for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this filing.
 
 
On May 2, 2005, the registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, and the registrant's statistical supplement for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information, including exhibits attached hereto, furnished under this Item 12 shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
 
 
 
The following exhibits are being furnished with this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: May 10, 2005
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This amendment is being filed solely to correctly present Mean Invested Assets and the Ratio of Adjusted Net Investment Income over Mean Invested Assets for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 on page 35 in our statistical supplement for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. Except for this page, no other information in the statistical supplement for the quarter ended March 31, 2005 has been updated or amended.
 
 
 
Definitions and Presentation
 
"Income from Operations," "Operating Revenue," and "Return on Capital" are non-GAAP financial measures and do not replace GAAP net income (loss) and revenues. Detailed reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is included in this statistical supplement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Income from operations, operating revenue, and return on capital are internal measures used by LNC in the management of its operations. Management believes that these performance measures explain the results of operations of LNC's ongoing operations in a manner that allows for a better understanding of the underlying trends in LNC's current business because the excluded items are either unpredictable and/or not related to decisions regarding the underlying businesses.
 
 
 
 
Accounting Changes
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to present financial information for the Investment Management segment's 401(k) Director product on a basis consistent with the reporting for similar products in the Retirement and Life Insurance segments.
 
 
 
 
Certain reclassifications have been made to present financial information for the Investment Management segment's 401(k) Director product on a basis consistent with the reporting for similar products in the Retirement and Life Insurance segments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE: This page presents the assets under management roll-forward without the Investment Management segment's London-based international investment unit, which was sold in the third quarter of 2004 and resulted in the transfer of assets under management
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


