FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20060112185805.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On January 12, 2006, our board of directors approved the following changes to certain outstanding awards granted pursuant to the Lincoln National Corporation 1993 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, which we refer to as the Plan:
Amendment No. 2 to the Plan is included as Exhibit 10.1 and the amendment of the outstanding option awards is included as Exhibit 10.2.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
On January 12, 2006, we issued a press release announcing that our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.6 billion of our securities. This authority is in addition to the $221.6 million, remaining from the previous securities repurchase authority, for a combined repurchase authority totaling $1.82 billion. Under this authority and without further announcement, we may repurchase securities in such amounts at such times, as we deem appropriate. Purchases may be made on the various stock exchanges, by block trades, in privately negotiated transactions, or by such other means as it deems appropriate. A copy of the press release is included as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: January 12, 2006
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Amendment amends the Lincoln National Corporation 1993 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, As Amended and Restated Effective May 8, 2003 (the 1993 Stock Plan). The Amendment is effective as of the 1
st
day of February, 2006.
 
The Plan is amended as follows:
 
1. The current Section 3.1(c) is replaced in its entirety with the following new Section 3.1(c):
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. A new Section 12.7 is added to the Plan, to read as follows:
 
12.7
 
Definition of Cause. For purposes of this Plan, and for any Awards granted pursuant to the terms of this Plan, Cause shall mean: (i) the conviction of a felony, or other fraudulent or willful misconduct materially and demonstrably injurious to the business or reputation of the Corporation by the Non-Employee Director; or (ii) the willful and continued failure of the Director to substantially perform his or her duties for the Corporation (other than such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness as determined by a physician proposed by the Corporation and reasonably acceptable to the Non-Employee Director), after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Non-Employee Director by a majority of the Board of Directors of the Corporation which specifically identifies the manner in which the Board believes that the Non-Employee Director has not substantially performed his or her duties. No act, or omission to act, on the part of the Non-Employee Director shall be considered willful unless such act or omission is the result of the Non-Employee Directors bad faith or acting without reasonable belief that his or her action or omission was in the best interests of the Corporation.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
Section 3 of each outstanding Option Agreement for Non-Employee Directors is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
3. Exercise Period
Grantee may exercise all or part of the Option for vested Shares on any LNC business day at LNCs executive offices until the first to occur of:
(a)
 
the tenth anniversary of the Date of Grant;
(b)
 
the first anniversary of the date the Grantee ceases to be a director with LNC on account of death or Disability, as defined in paragraph 2);
(c)
 
the fifth anniversary of Grantees Retirement (as defined in paragraph 2);
(d)
 
the date that is three (3) months after the date on which the Grantee, having been requested to resign for reasons other than for Cause, as defined in Section 12.7 of the Plan, actually resigns; or
(e)
 
the date that Grantee ceases to be a director with LNC for any reason other than those described in (b), (c), or (d) of this paragraph.
 
 

NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
PHILADELPHIA, January 12, 2006
 The board of directors of Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC), the parent company of the Lincoln Financial Group of companies, authorized the repurchase of up to $1.6 billion of Lincoln National securities. This authority is in addition to the $221.6 million, remaining from the previous securities repurchase authority, for a combined repurchase authority totaling $1.82 billion. Under this authority and without further announcement, Lincoln National may repurchase securities in such amounts at such times, as it deems appropriate. Purchases may be made on the various stock exchanges, by block trades, in privately negotiated transactions, or by such other means as it deems appropriate.
 
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation and its affiliates. With headquarters in Philadelphia, Lincoln Financial Group has consolidated assets of $122 billion as of September 30, 2005, and had annual consolidated revenues of $5.4 billion in 2004. Through its wealth accumulation, retirement income and wealth protection businesses, the company provides annuities, life insurance, 401(k) and 403(b) plans, savings plans, mutual funds, managed accounts, institutional investment, and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services.  For more information please visit www.lfg.com <http://www.lfg.com/>.
 


