FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20060922170611.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
Beginning September 25, 2006 and for the remainder of the week, LNC officials expect to attend meetings and participate in telephone calls with investors and analysts during which they expect to reconfirm our run-rate merger savings estimates and share repurchase guidance as set forth below and in our earnings release, dated August 8, 2006, relating to our second quarter results.
We expect to update these as well as other components of our 2006 outlook during our investor call in connection with our third quarter earnings release.
 
 In addition to the above, management would expect to indicate that the merger integration remains on track and to reiterate its goal of achieving a 13% ROE by year-end 2007. 
   
 
 
Certain statements made in this report and in other written or oral statements made by LNC or on LNCs behalf are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will, shall and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, operations, trends or financial results. LNC claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
 
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. LNCs annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact LNCs business and financial performance. Moreover, LNC operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
 
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on LNCs business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undo reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, LNC disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date: September 22, 2006
 


