FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20060502172747.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 2, 2006, the registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2006, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, and the registrants statistical supplement for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information, including exhibits attached hereto, furnished under this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are being furnished with this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: May 2, 2006

NEWS RELEASE
 
PHILADELPHIA, May 2, 2006 -
Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) today reported net income of $221.2 million, or $1.24 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2006. By comparison, net income for the first quarter of 2005 was $178.9 million, or $1.01 per diluted share.
 
Income from operations for the first quarter of 2006 was $221.8 million, or $1.25 per diluted share, compared with $172.5 million, or $0.98 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2005. Return on equity (ROE), based on income from operations, for the quarter was 14.9%. The attached table defines and reconciles income from operations and ROE, non-GAAP measures, to net income and ROE calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
Consolidated domestic retail deposits, which include annuities, mutual funds, life insurance and other personal wealth accumulation products, reached a record $7.0 billion, up 12% over the first quarter of 2005. Lincoln reported consolidated retail net flows for the quarter of $2.7 billion, up 3% from the prior year quarter. Institutional deposits were $4.8 billion for the quarter with $3.6 billion in net flows, both up over 150% from the 2005 quarter. Consolidated assets under management grew to $183 billion.
 
Despite a crowded field of competitors in the retirement and asset management marketplace, Lincoln continued to capture marketshare through industry-leading products, top-tier investment management performance, and wholesaling excellence, said Jon A. Boscia, chairman and chief executive officer of Lincoln Financial Group.
 
Lincoln Retirement
 
First quarter income from operations for the Lincoln Retirement segment was $123.1 million versus $98.6 million for the same period a year ago. The current quarters
 
 
 
1
 
results were driven by a 17% increase in account value versus the prior year period and contained approximately $9 million, after tax, of favorable items, primarily related to higher than expected investment income and hedge performance.
 
In the quarter, record variable annuity deposits of $2.4 billion fueled record gross deposits and net flows of $2.9 billion and $858 million, respectively. The companys multi-manager variable annuity,
Lincoln Choice Plus
SM
, posted a 38% increase in deposits over the first quarter of 2005, while Lincolns single-manager variable annuity, American Legacy
, increased 17%, as both achieved record sales in the current quarter.
 
Consecutive quarters of strong deposits and net flows lifted account values and related revenues, which were also aided by favorable equity markets and outperformance in our variable annuities su
b-accounts, relative to the S&P 500 index said Boscia.
 
Life Insurance
 
Life Insurance income from operations was $82.2 million, compared to $67.7 million in the first quarter of 2005. The 2006 quarter benefited from approximately $3 million of net positive items, including favorable mortality and better than expected investment income. The prior year quarter was impacted by approximately $4 million, after tax, of unfavorable mortality and negative unlocking of deferred acquisition costs (DAC).
 
First year premiums from retail life insurance increased 14% in the quarter as compared to the prior year quarter, driven by strong universal life sales. Premiums in the 2005 quarter were negatively impacted by competitive market conditions and Lincolns proactive stance against participating in the sale of investor-owned life insurance products.
 
Lincolns differentiated and expanded wholesaling model continued to gain traction. As an example, life sales in the wirehouse channel were up 31% over the first quarter of 2005, said Boscia.
 
Investment Management
 
Investment Management reported income from operations of $20.3 million for the quarter, compared with $7.4 million for the same period a year ago. In the current quarter, earnings benefited from a 43% increase in third-party advisory fee revenue over the first quarter of 2005 and, together with enhanced expense management, contributed to margin expansion.
 
Strength in both the retail and institutional businesses over the quarter boosted total deposits to $8.6 billion and net flows to $5.0 billion. Retail deposits were $3.8 billion, marking five consecutive quarters of retail deposits in excess of $3 billion.
 
 
 
2
 
With most of Delawares recent talent-related expenses behind them and as third-party assets under management grew almost 50% over the prior year period, the segment's earnings potential was evident this quarter, said Boscia.
 
Lincoln UK
 
For the first quarter, the UK segments income from operations was $10.7 million, which compares with $10.0 million in the first quarter of 2005. Current quarter results reflect the positive impact of equity markets, as the FTSE 100 index ended the quarter up 22%
 compared to a year ago, offsetting the natural run-off in the block of business.
 
Corporate and Other
 
Corporate and Other recorded an operating loss for the first quarter of $14.5 million, versus $11.2 million in the first quarter of 2005. Distribution losses were $9.8 million in the first quarter of 2006 versus $13.6 million a year ago, benefiting from increased operating efficiency. In the 2006 quarter, the Corporate and Other results benefited from approximately $3 million of favorable expense-related items. The first quarter of 2005 included a positive $5.8 million adjustment from a reduction in the deferred tax asset valuation allowance previously established in the companys Barbados subsidiary.
 
Capital and Share Repurchase
     As of March 31, 2006, the book value of Lincoln National Corporation common stock, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income, was $34.37, compared with $30.85 a year ago. Book value, including accumulated other comprehensive income, was $35.99, compared with $34.74 a year ago. Although Lincoln did not repurchase shares in the first quarter of 2006, the company entered into an accelerated share repurchase program on April 3, 2006, and as a result, retired approximately 8 million shares on April 10, 2006. The program is expected to be completed in the third quarter of 2006 and the total number of shares repurchased will be between approximately 8 and 9 million.
   
  
Lincoln Financial Group and Jefferson Pilot Financial Merger
 
Lincoln and Jefferson Pilot completed the merger on April 3, 2006. Upon closing, Lincoln issued approximately 112 million shares of common stock and funded the $1.8 billion in cash through its bridge loan facility. Since the close of the merger, Lincoln has raised $1 billion in senior debt and $275 million in capital securities to refinance a majority of the funds borrowed under its bridge loan facility.
 
A central pillar of our integration plan is to minimize distractions in product delivery, customer service, and product platforms, setting the stage for revenue synergies and organic growth, said Boscia. The resilient results in the first quarter are evidence that we are on track.
 
Dennis Glass, president and chief operating officer for Lincoln, added, As we move from integrating operations to executing on a single platform, I am excited about our ability to drive growth and shareholder returns through our combined product portfolio and enhanced distribution platform. I look forward to carrying this quarters strong results into our first quarter as a unified company.
 
 
3
 
Lincoln National Corporation will discuss the companys first quarter results with investors in a conference call beginning at 11:00 a.m. (ET) on Wednesday, May 3, 2006. The company will also post its first quarter 2006 statistical supplement on its Web site, www.LFG.com. Included as an addendum to Lincolns statistical supplement, a summary of Jefferson Pilots first quarter 2006 financial results will be posted on www.LFG.com.
 
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in Philadelphia, Lincoln Financial Group had consolidated assets of $128 billion as of March 31, 2006, and had annual consolidated revenues of $5.5 billion in 2005. As of April 3, 2006, the company offers: annuities; life, group life and disability insurance; 401(k) and 403(b) plans; savings plans; mutual funds; managed accounts; institutional investments; and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services. Company affiliates include: Lincoln Financial Distributors, which provides wholesaling and marketing support; Lincoln Financial Advisors, a national network of financial planners, agents, and registered representatives; Delaware Investments, the marketing name for Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries; Lincoln Financial Media, which owns and operates three television stations, 18 radio stations, and the Lincoln Financial Sports production and syndication business; and Lincoln UK. For more information please visit
www.LFG.com
.
4
Definition of Income (Loss) from Operations and ROE
Income (loss) from operations and ROE, as used in the earnings release, are non-GAAP financial measures and are not substitutes for net income (loss) and ROE, calculated using GAAP measures. Income (loss) from operations represents after tax results excluding, as applicable, realized gains or losses on investments and derivatives, cumulative effect of accounting changes, restructuring charges, reserve changes on business sold through reinsurance, gain on sale of subsidiaries and book of business and loss on early retirement of debt. The earnings used to calculate ROE, as used in the earnings release, are income (loss) from operations. Income (loss) from operations is an internal measure used by the company in the management of its operations. Management believes that this performance measure explains the results of the company's ongoing operations in a manner that allows for a better understanding of the underlying trends in the company's current business because the excluded items are either unpredictable and/or not related to decisions regarding the underlying businesses.
5
6
 
Forward-Looking StatementsCautionary Language
 
Certain statements made in this report and in other written or oral statements made by Lincoln or on Lincolns behalf are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will, shall and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, operations, trends or financial results. Lincoln claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
 
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Other sections of this report and Lincolns annual reports on Form 10-K, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact Lincolns business and financial performance. Moreover, Lincoln operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
 
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on Lincolns business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undo reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, Lincoln disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report.
7

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


