FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20060509112646.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
As previously reported in our current report on Form 8-K filed on April 3, 2006, we consummated the merger of Jefferson-Pilot Corporation, a North Carolina corporation (Jefferson-Pilot), with and into Lincoln JP Holdings, L.P., an Indiana limited partnership and our wholly owned subsidiary, as contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 9, 2005, as amended as of January 26, 2006, by and among Lincoln National Corporation, Jefferson-Pilot, Lincoln JP Holdings, L.P and Quartz Corporation, a North Carolina corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of LNC, on April 3, 2006. We are filing this Form 8-K to provide the additional financial information described in Item 9.01 below.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a)
Financial Statements of the Business Acquired.
The following financial statements of Jefferson-Pilot Corporation are being filed herewith and are incorporated herein by reference:
Jefferson-Pilot Corporation and Subsidiaries unaudited consolidated financial statements at March 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 and for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
(b)
Pro Forma
Financial Information.
 
 
The unaudited pro forma financial statements with respect to the combined company (unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of March 31, 2006, unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 and notes to the aforementioned unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements).
 
(c) Exhibits.
The Exhibit Index beginning on page E-1 is incorporated herein by reference.
 
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
3
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
4
 
 
5
 
 
6
 
 
N
ote
1. B
asis of Presentation
The accompanying consolidated unaudited condensed financial statements of Jefferson-Pilot Corporation (with its subsidiaries, referred to as the Company) have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for interim financial information. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and notes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. Therefore, the information contained in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, should be referred to in connection with the reading of these interim consolidated unaudited condensed financial statements.
In the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Operating results for the three-month period ended March 31, 2006, are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December 31, 2006.
 
Share Information
On April 3, 2006, all of Jefferson-Pilot Corporations shares converted into shares of Lincoln National Corporation (LNC) or cash in accordance with the terms of the merger agreement (see Note 9). Accordingly, share information is not presented herein.
First Quarter 2005 Earnings
In the first quarter of 2005, the Companys net income was impacted by management actions and claims experience, which when taken together increased pretax earnings and net income by $49 and $32 and affects the comparability of earnings results. Management reduced the rates for non-guaranteed cost of insurance bonuses (partial refunds) on certain older UL-type life insurance products. These bonuses are paid to certain policyholders at specified policy anniversaries for continuing coverage. Consequently, we recognized an accrual release, which increased cost of insurance charge revenue by $13 pretax, and a related unlocking of expected gross profits, which reduced amortization of value of business acquired by $16 pretax. Additionally, the Company experienced strong earnings emergence from favorable claims and reserve development in its group insurance business, primarily in the Canada Life block, reducing insurance and annuity benefits by $25 pretax, partially offset by $5 pretax of additional amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs.
N
ote
2. S
ignificant Accounting Policies
Stock-Based Compensation
Prior to January 1, 2006, the Company accounted for stock incentive awards in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, 
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
(APB 25), and accordingly, recognized no compensation expense for stock option awards to employees or directors when the option price was not less than the market value of the stock at the date of award. The Company recognized expense utilizing the fair value method in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123,
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
(SFAS 123), for stock options granted to non-employees, specifically agents. Accordingly, no compensation was recognized for our employee and director stock options prior to January 1, 2006. In the first quarter of 2006 and 2005, the Company recorded stock-based compensation expense for agents options in the amount of $1, all of which was capitalized as deferred acquisition costs (DAC).
7
On January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004),
Share Based Payment
(SFAS 123-R) under the modified prospective method. Accordingly, prior period amounts have not been restated. Under this method, the fair value of all employee and director stock options vesting on or after the adoption date is generally included in the determination of net income as the options vest. The fair value of stock options granted has been estimated using an appropriate fair value option-pricing model considering assumptions for dividend yield, expected volatility, risk-free interest rate and expected life of the option. The fair value of the option grants is amortized on a straight-line basis over the implicit service period of the employee, considering retirement eligibility for options granted after January 1, 2006.  For options granted after January 1, 2006, the expense is recognized evenly up through the retirement eligibility date or immediately upon grant for participants already eligible for retirement. Total stock-based compensation expense recognized in the first quarter of 2006 for agents, employees and directors, related to the Companys Long Term Stock Incentive Plans and Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plans (together, stock incentive plans, discussed below) was $10, of which $2 was capitalized as DAC. The compensation cost is included in the general and administrative expenses, net of deferrals, line item on the Company's consolidated statements of income.  The total income tax benefit recognized in the income statement for share-based compensation arrangements was $3.
 
The following table details the effect on net income as if the Company had adopted the fair value expensing provisions of SFAS 123 for its employee and director stock option awards. The reported and pro forma net income for the first quarter of 2006 are the same, as stock-based compensation expense is calculated under the provisions of SFAS 123-R. The amounts for the first quarter of 2006 have been presented for comparative purposes to the first quarter of 2005. Prior to January 1, 2006, for purposes of the pro forma disclosures, the Company amortized the fair value of its grants over the explicit vesting period for participants, with acceleration at retirement.  For grants made starting in 2006, the Company amortizes the fair value of its grants over the shorter of the explicit vesting period or the period from grant date up to the retirement eligibility date.
 
In the first quarter of 2006, the adoption of SFAS 123-R resulted in incremental stock-based compensation expense (representing the cost of stock options issued to employees and directors) of $9, including $7 due to consideration of retirement eligibility when determining the vesting period for 2006 grants. Of this amount, $1 was capitalized as DAC. The incremental stock-based compensation expense due to the adoption of SFAS 123-R caused income before income taxes to decrease by $8 and net income to decrease by $5. In addition, in connection with the adoption of SFAS 123-R, net cash provided by operating activities decreased and net cash provided by financing activities increased in the first quarter of 2006 by $5 related to excess tax benefits from stock-based payment arrangements. The amount of cash received from the exercise of stock options was approximately $31 in the first quarter of 2006.
8
Long Term Stock Incentive Plan
Under the Long Term Stock Incentive Plan, a Committee of independent directors may award nonqualified or incentive stock options and stock appreciation rights, and make grants of the Companys stock, to employees of the Company and to life insurance agents. Stock grants may be either restricted stock or unrestricted stock distributed upon the achievement of performance goals established by the Committee.
A total of 9,474,929 shares are available for issuance pursuant to outstanding or future awards as of March 31, 2006. The option price is never less than the market value of the Companys common stock on the award date. Options are exercisable for periods determined by the Committee, not to exceed ten years from the award date, and vest immediately or over periods as determined by the Committee. Restricted and unrestricted stock grants are limited to 10% of the total shares reserved for the Plan.
Non-Employee Directors Plan
Under the Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plans, 806,373 shares of the Companys common stock are reserved for issuance pursuant to outstanding or future awards as of March 31, 2006. Nonqualified stock options are automatically awarded, at market prices on specified award dates. The options vest over a period of one to three years, and terminate ten years from the date of award, but are subject to earlier vesting or termination under certain circumstances.
 
Vesting of Stock Options
Grants of stock options in February 2006 will continue to vest on a straight-line basis, over the implicit service period of the employees, considering retirement eligibility. All employee and director stock options outstanding as of December 31, 2005, vested upon closing of the merger with LNC on April 3, 2006. All outstanding options were converted to options on LNC stock in accordance with the terms of the merger agreement.
9
Summary Stock Option Activity
Changes in the Companys stock options for the first quarter of 2006 were as follows:
The weighted-average fair value of options granted during the quarter ended March 31, 2006, and March 31, 2005, was $12.19 and $9.40, respectively. The total intrinsic value for stock options outstanding and exercisable was $97 as of March 31, 2006. The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised during the first quarter of 2006 and 2005 was $14 and $2, respectively. The total fair value of shares vesting during the first quarter 2006 and 2005 was $9 and $8, respectively.
Changes in the Companys nonvested shares for the first quarter of 2006 were as follows:
As of March 31, 2006, there was $16 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested share-based compensation arrangements granted under the stock incentive plans. Of this amount, $9 vested upon consummation of the merger on April 3, 2006, and $7 will continue to vest over a three-year period subsequent to the merger, subject to retirement eligibility.
10
The following table summarizes certain stock option information at March 31, 2006:
These tables include 525,531 outstanding and 338,484 exercisable stock options held by life insurance agents. These are five-year options with vesting based on future performance. Forfeitures on agent options have been much higher than on other options.
The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options, which have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. In addition, option valuation models require the input of highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock price volatility.
Fair values were estimated at grant date using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions for the first quarters of 2006 and 2005: risk-free interest rates of 4.6% and 3.9%; volatility factors of the expected market price of the Companys common stock of 0.20 and 0.21; and a weighted-average expected life of the options of 6.8 years and 7.8 years. An expected dividend yield of 2.86% and 3.28% was assumed for grants made in the first quarter of 2006 and 2005. In the first quarter of 2006, the volatility assumptions were determined using historical closing prices. In the first quarter of 2005, the volatility assumptions were determined using a 50/50 mix of historical and implied volatility.
11
 
N
ote
3. I
ncome
T
axes
The effective tax rate on net income is lower than the prevailing corporate Federal income tax rate principally from tax-preferred investment income and other investment credits. The Company earns tax-preferred investment income that does not change proportionately with the overall change in earnings or losses before Federal income taxes. In addition, the Internal Revenue Service recently completed its examination of tax years 2000-2003, and adjustments related to the completion of this audit also impacted the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2006.
 
N
ote
4. C
omprehensive
L
oss
The components of comprehensive loss, net of related effects of DAC/VOBA and income taxes, are as follows:
 
N
ote
5.
Policy Liabilities
In June 2005, a life insurance subsidiary of the Company established a program for an unconsolidated special purpose entity, Jefferson-Pilot Life Funding Trust I (the Trust), to sell medium-term notes through investment banks to commercial investors. The notes are backed by funding agreements issued by this subsidiary. The funding agreements are investment contracts that do not subject the subsidiary to mortality or morbidity risk. The medium-term notes issued by the Trust are exposed to all the risks and rewards of owning the funding agreements that collateralize
them. The funding agreements issued to the Trust are classified as a component of policy liabilities within the consolidated balance sheets. As spread products, funding agreements generate profit to the extent that the rate of return on the investments earned exceeds the interest credited and other expenses.
The subsidiary issued $300 of funding agreements in June 2005. The initial funding agreements were issued at a variable rate and provide for quarterly interest payments, indexed to the 3-month LIBOR plus 7 basis points, with principal due at maturity on June 2, 2008. Concurrent with this issuance, the subsidiary executed an interest rate swap for a notional amount equal to the proceeds of the funding agreements. The swap qualifies for cash flow hedge accounting treatment and converts the variable rate of the funding agreements to a fixed rate of 4.28%.
N
ote
6.
Contingent liabilities
A life insurance subsidiary is a defendant in a proposed class action suit. The suit alleges that a predecessor company, decades ago, unfairly discriminated in the sale of certain small face amount life insurance policies, and unreasonably priced these policies. Management believes that the life companys practices have complied with state insurance laws and intends to vigorously defend the claims asserted.
In the normal course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various lawsuits. Because of the considerable uncertainties that exist, the Company cannot predict the outcome of pending or future litigation. However, management believes that the resolution of pending legal proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial position or liquidity, although it could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations for a specific period.
12
 
N
ote
7. R
etirement Benefit Plans
The following table illustrates the components of net periodic benefit cost for our pension plans:
The Company expects to make contributions of $3 to $7 during 2006 related to our nonqualified plans. Contributions of $0 were made during the three months ended March 31, 2006.
N
ote
8. S
egment
I
nformation
The Company has five reportable segments, which are defined based on the nature of the products and services offered: Individual Products, Annuity and Investment Products (AIP), Benefit Partners, Communications, and Corporate and Other. The segments remain as we described in our Form 10-K for 2005. The following tables summarize financial information of the reportable segments:
13
Default charges paid to the Corporate and Other segment for Individual, AIP and Benefit Partners were $6, $3, $1 for the three months ended March 31, 2006 and 2005.
N
ote
9. S
ubsequent
E
vent
On October 10, 2005, LNC and the Company announced that they had entered into a definitive merger agreement. The transaction was approved by the shareholders of both companies and regulators and was completed on April 3, 2006. At closing, the Companys shareholders received 1.0906 shares of LNC common stock or $55.96 in cash for each share of the Companys common stock, at their election, but subject to proration. The aggregate amount of cash paid to the Companys shareholders equaled $1.8 billion.
 
 

 
On April 3, 2006, LNC and Jefferson-Pilot consummated the merger. The Jefferson-Pilot historical consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 are included in Jefferson-Pilots Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements of LNC give effect to the merger as if it had been completed as of January 1, 2006 with respect to the pro forma results of operations data, and as of March 31, 2006 with respect to the pro forma balance sheet data. The unaudited proforma condensed combined financial information also gives effect to the initial funding of the cash portion of the merger consideration through a bridge financing facility and the issuance of the portion of the capital securities and senior notes that we have issued or that we expect to issue to repay all of the outstanding debt under the bridge financing facility as if they occurred on January 1, 2006. We have adjusted the historical consolidated financial statements to give effect to pro forma events that are (1) directly attributable to the merger, (2) factually supportable, and (3) with respect to the statements of income, expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information below should be read in conjunction with the notes thereto and our unaudited consolidated financial statements for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2006 in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q, and our audited historical consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
The merger will be accounted for under the purchase method of accounting, with LNC treated as the accounting acquirer. Under this method of accounting, the purchase price will be allocated to Jefferson-Pilots net assets based upon the estimated fair values of Jefferson-Pilots assets and liabilities at the date of completion of the merger. The actual purchase price to be so allocated will depend upon, among other things, the number of shares of Jefferson-Pilot common stock issued and outstanding or subject to outstanding options immediately prior to the merger. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements include adjustments, which are based upon preliminary estimates, to reflect the allocation of the purchase price to Jefferson-Pilots net assets as of March 31, 2006. The purchase price allocation reflected herein is preliminary and final allocation of the purchase price will be based upon the actual purchase price and the actual assets and liabilities of Jefferson-Pilot as of the date of the completion of the merger. Accordingly, the actual purchase accounting adjustments may differ materially from the pro forma adjustments reflected herein.
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements are presented for illustrative purposes only and are not necessarily indicative of what our actual financial position or results of operations would have been had the merger been completed on the date indicated above.
In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not purport to project the future financial position or operating results of the resulting company.
These statements do not give effect to (1) 
the impact of possible revenue enhancements, expense efficiencies or synergies
expected to result from the merger or contemplated share repurchases of our common stock, (2) the merger related costs of approximately $180 million to integrate our and Jefferson-Pilots operations or (3) the effects of transactions or developments that may occur subsequent to the merger. The foregoing matters could cause both LNCs pro forma historical financial position and results of operations, and LNCs actual future financial position and results of operations, to differ materially from those presented in the following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements.
 
 
 
Note 1  Reporting Reclassifications
Certain amounts in the historical consolidated financial statements of Jefferson-Pilot have been reclassified to conform to LNCs historical financial statement presentation. While LNC and Jefferson-Pilot have completed a preliminary review of their respective accounting and financial reporting policies as compared to those used by the other company, this review is ongoing and will continue throughout the merger process. As such, additional reclassifications or pro forma adjustments may be identified.
Note 2  Purchase Price and Financing Considerations
LNC funded the $1.8 billion cash portion of the merger consideration through the issuance of debt under a bridge financing facility.
LNC expects to repay all, or substantially all of the outstanding debt under the bridge financing facility through the issuance of long-term debt, including senior notes and
capital securities described below
. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflects the issuance of 112,304,957 shares of LNC common stock with an aggregate value of $5.5 billion (see note 1 to the table below), the conversion of all outstanding Jefferson-Pilot stock options at the date of the merger with an estimated value of approximately $131 million at March 31, 2006, and the cash payment of $1.8 billion and estimated transaction costs of $63 million.
Goodwill of $3.4 billion is a result of the excess of purchase price over the estimated fair value of Jefferson-Pilots net assets at March 31, 2006. The purchase price is assumed to be $7.5 billion, including certain estimated purchase price adjustments related to the merger as shown in the table below. The estimated fair value of Jefferson-Pilots net assets is assumed to be $4.1 billion based on the carrying value of net assets at March 31, 2006 plus estimated fair value pro forma adjustments as shown in the table below. Preliminary values and lives have been assigned to the acquired assets and liabilities assumed for the purposes of these unaudited pro forma combined financial statements. The unaudited pro forma combined financial statements reflect LNCs estimates of the fair value of the net assets of Jefferson-Pilot as of March 31, 2006, and the allocation of the purchase price to the fair value of Jefferson-Pilots net assets, including identified intangible assets. The estimated fair values and lives will be refined during the completion of the merger process and may vary materially from the amounts included herein.
 
The allocation of the purchase price follows:
 
 
1. Fair value was based on the average closing price of LNC common stock for the five trading days ranging from two days before to two days after October 10, 2005, the date the merger was announced, which was $48.98 per share.
The pro forma financial information presented herein assumes that LNC initially funded the cash portion of the merger consideration of $1.8 billion through the issuance of debt under a bridge financing facility and then repaid such amount through the issuance of $500 million of floating rate senior notes due 2009, $500 million 6.15% senior notes due 2036, and $275 million of 6.75% capital securities due 2066, and anticipated issuance of $525 million of 7.00% capital securities due 2066, callable in 10 years. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflects the impact of these financing arrangements using the applicable actual or anticipated borrowing rates for such types of securities
. As discussed below in Note 6, management entered into a repurchase arrangement for $500 million in LNC stock, financed initially through issuance of debt under a bridge facility. No pro forma adjustments have been made to reflect the financing of the repurchase of LNC shares.
T
he interest rates used to calculate the impact of the financing on the pro forma financial information were based on the securities issued or were estimated based on LNC's borrowing rates at April 29, 2006. LNCs borrowing rates are sensitive to changes in risk-free rates and credit spreads. The actual interest rates may differ materially from those estimated by LNC.
Options outstanding to acquire Jefferson-Pilot common stock immediately prior to the effective time of the merger remain subject to the same terms and conditions as were in effect with respect to the options immediately prior to the effective time of the merger, except that each of these stock options is now exercisable for LNC common stock equal to the number of shares of Jefferson-Pilot common stock subject to such option multiplied by 1.0906 (rounded down to the nearest whole share), with the exercise price determined by dividing the exercise price of the Jefferson-Pilot options by 1.0906 (rounded up to the sixth decimal place). Each unvested Jefferson-Pilot stock option held by an employee, officer or director and granted prior to October 9, 2005 (which was the date we signed the merger agreement) and outstanding
 
under any Jefferson-Pilot stock option plan became fully vested and exercisable in connection with the merger. Jefferson-Pilot stock options held by its agents did not become fully vested and exercisable in connection with the merger, but will vest in accordance with the applicable option agreement.
 
The fair value of Jefferson-Pilot options was estimated using a Black-Scholes option pricing model at March 31, 2006.
The actual variables used to calculate the fair value of the
Jefferson-Pilot
options
at the date of the merger
may differ from those estimated
within the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements
.
 
Note 3  Pro Forma Adjustments
 
These pro forma adjustments are based on certain estimates and assumptions as of the date of the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information. The actual adjustments upon the consummation of the merger will depend on a number of factors, including changes in the estimated fair value of net assets and the effective date of the acquisition. Therefore, the actual adjustments may be different from the adjustments made to prepare the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information and such differences may be material.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 4Merger Related Charges
 
In connection with the merger, LNCs preliminary integration plan includes merger related costs of approximately $180 million to integrate LNCs and Jefferson-Pilots operations. Depending on the nature of such costs, they will either be included in the purchase price allocation, or be treated as period costs and charged to the Statement of Income as incurred. The specific details of these plans will continue to be refined.
 
Note 5Earnings per Share
 
The pro forma earnings per share reflect the weighted average number of LNC shares that would have been outstanding had the transaction occurred as at January 1, 2006. Jefferson-Pilot options, which factor into the dilution calculation, were converted at an assumed 1.0906 exchange ratio, as provided in the merger agreement, see Note 2.
 
The effect of certain potentially dilutive securities was excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share as their effect is anti-dilutive.
Note 6 - Accelerated Stock Repurchase Program
On April 3, 2006, LNC entered into an agreement with a third party broker-dealer to purchase shares of our common stock, under an accelerated stock repurchase program, for an aggregate purchase price of $500 million. The number of shares to be repurchased under this arrangement will be at least approximately 8 million but not more than approximately 9 million shares, based on the volume weighted average share price of our common stock over the programs duration. On April 10, 2006, we funded the arrangement by borrowing $500 million under the bridge facility and received approximately 8 million shares of our common stock, which were retired. We expect the program to be completed in the third quarter of 2006. As discussed in Note 2, the pro forma financial statements do not include any effects from this transaction.
 
 


