FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20061201114902.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Triggering Events That Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Triggering Events That Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.04 - Triggering Events that Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation Under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement
 
On December 1, 2006, Lincoln JP Holding, L.P., a wholly owned subsidiary of Lincoln National Corporation and successor to Jefferson-Pilot Corporation, called for redemption on January 15, 2007 of all of its outstanding 8.14% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures, Series A due 2046 (the Junior Subordinated Debentures), which are held by Jefferson-Pilot Capital Trust A. As a result, all of the outstanding 8.14% Capital Securities, Series A and 8.14% Common Securities of Jefferson-Pilot Capital Trust A will be redeemed on January 15, 2007. The redemption price for the Capital Securities, Series A will be $1,040.70 per security, for a total principal amount of $208,140,000, plus any accrued distributions through the redemption date.
The aggregate principal amount of the Junior Subordinated Debentures to be redeemed is $214,577,770.20, plus accrued interest thereon through the redemption date. The Junior Subordinated Debentures were originally issued on January 21, 1997 and, in accordance with their terms, are subject to optional redemption by Lincoln JP Holdings on or after January 15, 2007. Pursuant to the terms of its Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, Jefferson-Pilot Capital Trust A is required to use the proceeds it receives from the redemption of the Junior Subordinated Debentures to redeem its 8.14% Capital Securities, Series A and 8.14% Common Securities on the same day.
 
For additional information, please see the press release announcing the redemption attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
As previously announced, on November 3, 2006, Lincoln National Corporation (LNC or we) entered into an agreement with Lehman Brothers Finance S.A. (Lehman Brothers) to purchase approximately 2.3 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate initial purchase price of $150 million under an accelerated stock buyback program. Under the Confirmation dated November 3, 2006, which contains the principal terms and provisions governing the program between LNC and Lehman Brothers, LNC could receive from, or could be required to pay, Lehman Brothers a price adjustment based on the volume weighted average share price (VWAP) of LNCs common stock during the term of the program. Under the Confirmation, the default method to settle the price adjustment was in shares of common stock.
The program terminated on November 27, 2006. As a result of the aggregate initial purchase price being greater than the VWAP during the term of the program, Lehman Brothers will deliver to us approximately 17,000 shares of our common stock in final settlement of the program. These shares will be retired and recorded as a reduction in shareholders equity on LNCs Consolidated Balance Sheet.
In the ordinary course of their business, Lehman Brothers and its affiliates have engaged, and may in the future engage, in financial advisory and/or investment banking transactions with LNC and its affiliates. They have received and will receive customary fees and commissions for these transactions.
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Exhibit 10.1
 
Confirmation Agreement, dated November 3, 2006, relating to LNCs accelerated stock repurchase program with Lehman Brothers Finance, S.A.*
 
Exhibit 99.1     Press release dated December 1, 2006.
 
*
Portions of the exhibit have been redacted and are subject to a confidential treatment request filed with the Secretary of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 1, 2006
*
Portions of the exhibit have been redacted and are subject to a confidential treatment request filed with the Secretary of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
Ref. Numbers:
 
Risk ID: [] / Effort ID: N[] / Global Deal ID: []
 
 
Dear Sir or Madam:
 
The purpose of this communication (this 
Confirmation
) is to confirm the terms and conditions of the transaction (the 
Transaction
) entered into between Lehman Brothers Finance S.A. (
Party A
) and Lincoln National Corporation (
Party B
) on the Trade Date specified below. This Confirmation constitutes a Confirmation as referred to in the Agreement specified below. This Confirmation is sent on behalf both Party A and Lehman Brothers Inc. (
LBI
).
 
This Confirmation supplements, forms part of, and is subject to, the ISDA Master Agreement dated as of May 12, 2006, as amended and supplemented from time to time, between Party A and Party B (the 
Agreement
). All provisions contained in the Agreement shall govern this Confirmation except as expressly modified below.
 
The definitions and provisions contained in the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the 
Equity Definitions
) and the 2000 ISDA Definitions (the 
Swap Definitions
, and together with the Equity Definitions, the 
Definitions
), in each case as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (
ISDA
) are incorporated into this Confirmation. References herein to Transaction shall be deemed references to Swap Transaction for purposes of the Swap Definitions. In the event of any inconsistency between the Equity Definitions and the Swap Definitions, the Equity Definitions will govern. In the event of any inconsistency between either set of Definitions and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will govern.
 
The terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:
 
 
 
An [*
] represents confidential information that has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission
 
2
An [*
] represents confidential information that has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission
3
 
 
4
 
 
 
An [*
] represents confidential information that has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission
5
 
6
 
 
7
 
An [*
] represents confidential information that has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission
 
8
 
9
 
10
 
11
 
12
 
 
13
 
14
 
 
15
16
17
 
 
18
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by executing this Confirmation and returning such Confirmation, in its entirety, to us at facsimile number 646-885-9546 (United States of America), Attention: Documentation.
 
 
 
Execution time will be furnished upon Counterparty's written request.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Philadelphia, PA, December 1, 2006 -
Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) today announced that its wholly owned subsidiary and successor to Jefferson-Pilot Corporation, Lincoln JP Holdings, L.P., has called for redemption of all the $200 million outstanding 8.14% Capital Securities, Series A (Series A Capital Securities) issued by Jefferson-Pilot Capital Trust A (CUSIP No. 475529AA1) and guaranteed by Lincoln JP Holdings.
 
The Series A Capital Securities will be redeemed at a price of $1,040.70 per security, plus any accrued and unpaid distributions for the period up to but excluding the redemption date. The redemption date is January 15, 2007.
 
The Series A Capital Securities were issued in 1997 and are redeemable at Lincoln JP Holdings option on or after January 15, 2007. Holders of the Series A Capital Securities will receive official notice of the redemption by mail. The paying agent for the redemption of the Series A Capital Securities is The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. Holders of  Series A Capital Securities may call The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. at 800-275-2048 for more information.
 
 
 
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in Philadelphia, the companies of Lincoln Financial Group had assets under management of $220 billion as of September 30, 2006. Through its affiliated companies, Lincoln Financial Group offers: annuities; life, group life and disability insurance; 401(k) and 403(b) plans; savings plans; mutual funds; managed accounts; institutional investments; and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services.  Affiliates also include: Delaware Investments, the marketing name for Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries; Lincoln Financial Media, which owns and operates three television stations, 18 radio stations, and the Lincoln Financial Sports production and syndication business; and Lincoln UK. For more information please visit
www.LFG.com
.
 
 
 


