FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20060814161821.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
As previously announced, on January 12, 2006, Lincoln National Corporations (LNC) Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1.6 billion of our securities. This authority was in addition to the $221.6 million, remaining from the previous securities repurchase authority, for a combined repurchase authority totaling $1.82 billion. Purchases may be made on the various stock exchanges, by block trades, in privately negotiated transactions, or by such other means as LNC deems appropriate. 
After the transaction described below, LNC remains authorized to repurchase from time to time up to $971.6 million of its securities pursuant to the pre-existing authority.
 
Pursuant to that authorization, on August 11, 2006, LNC entered into an agreement with Lehman Brothers Finance S.A. (Lehman Brothers) regarding its previously announced accelerated stock buyback program. Under the agreement, LNC has agreed to purchase approximately 5.5 million shares of its common stock pursuant to a private transaction from Lehman Brothers for an initial aggregate purchase price of $350 million. We are funding the program with internally generated funds, asset sales and commercial paper.
 
Under the Confirmation dated August 11, 2006, which contains the principal terms and provisions governing the program between LNC and Lehman Brothers, LNC may receive from, or be required to pay, Lehman Brothers a price adjustment based on the volume weighted average share price (VWAP) of LNCs common stock during the term of the program. The price adjustment can be settled, at LNCs option, in cash or in shares of its common stock. LNC expects the program to be completed early in the fourth quarter of 2006, although in certain circumstances the completion date may be accelerated by Lehman Brothers. In addition, the Confirmation contains other terms governing the program, including, but not limited to, the mechanism used to determine the final settlement of the transaction, the settlement method (whether in shares or cash at LNCs option), the specific circumstances under which Lehman Brothers is permitted to make adjustments to valuation periods, the specific circumstances under which the program may be terminated early (including mergers, tender offers, and certain other events), definitions of terms used throughout the Confirmation, and various acknowledgements, representations and warranties made by LNC and Lehman Brothers to one another, including representations related to Rule 10b5-1 and intended compliance with the Rule 10b-18 volume and timing guidelines. In certain circumstances, LNC may receive from, or be required to pay, Lehman Brothers a termination payment in the event of an early termination. The early termination payment may be in cash or shares.
Until the transaction is completed or terminated, generally accepted accounting principles require LNC to assume that it will issue shares to settle any obligation it may have at the end of a quarterly reporting period to Lehman Brothers in relation to any increase in the VWAP over the share price at inception of the transaction, along with other net costs with respect to the repurchased shares. The amount of shares LNC must treat as having been issued to settle such obligation would be included in the weighted average number of shares outstanding for purposes of calculating LNCs fully diluted earnings per share for that reporting period.
 
 
In connection with the program, LNC expects that Lehman Brothers will
purchase shares of its common stock in the open-market over time. To the extent that Lehman Brothers enters into hedging transactions, it may also be expected to sell shares in the open-market over time.
In the ordinary course of their business, Lehman Brothers and its affiliates have engaged, and may in the future engage, in financial advisory and/or investment banking transactions with LNC and its affiliates. They have received and will receive customary fees and commissions for these transactions.
 
 
This document may contain information that includes or is based upon forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give expectations or forecasts of future events. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. They use words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, trends in operations and financial results.
               
Any or all forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong. They can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many such factors will be important in determining our actual future results. These statements are based on current expectations and the current economic environment. They involve a number of risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Among factors that could cause actual results to differ materially are:
The risks included here are not exhaustive. We describe additional risks in our recent Forms 10-K and 10-Q and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
               
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, we disclaim any current intention to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this document.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: August 14, 2006
 


