FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20060915113045.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On September 14, 2006, the Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors recommended changes to the compensation for non-employee directors, which were adopted by the Board of Directors. Beginning in 2007, our non-employee directors (except for Mr. Stonecipher, who has declined all compensation for his service as a director) will receive the following compensation:
In addition, meeting fees may be paid in some cases for meetings which exceed the number of annually scheduled meetings ($1,100 per meeting) as determined by the Corporate Governance Committee. All fees will be payable to the directors on a quarterly basis in arrears.
Finally, the Chief Executive Officer is authorized, in his discretion, to reimburse non-employee directors for expenses reasonably incurred in attending Board or Committee meetings, including, but not limited to, expenses related to traveling to and from the meetings.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is being included with this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: September 15, 2006
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
In addition, meeting fees may be paid in some cases for meetings which exceed the number of annually scheduled meetings ($1,100 per meeting) as determined by the Corporate Governance Committee. All fees will be payable to the directors on a quarterly basis in arrears.
Finally, the Chief Executive Officer is authorized, in his discretion, to reimburse non-employee directors for expenses reasonably incurred in attending Board or Committee meetings, including, but not limited to, expenses related to traveling to and from the meetings.
 
 


