FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20060418165950.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
a)
  
On April 12 and 13, 2006, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors took the following actions:
(1)
 
Approved an increase in Jon A. Boscias, our chairman and chief executive officer, salary form $850,000 to $925,000. This was the first increase in Mr. Boscias salary in five years. The Committee did not change the salaries of the other named executive officers for the year ended December 31, 2005. The Committee also approved a salary for Dennis R. Glass, president and chief operating officer, of $900,000.
(2)
 
Approved the performance-based compensation measures pursuant to which annual incentive awards may be paid to executive officers under the Lincoln National Corporation Amended and Restated Incentive Compensation Plan (the ICP), for fiscal 2006. The ICP is filed as Exhibit 8 to our proxy statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The annual incentive awards may be paid in cash or shares of common stock pursuant to the terms of the ICP. The Compensation Committee set corporate performance goals as well as additional goals for particular business units. The 2006 corporate performance goals, which apply to the corporate center executive officers are:
  
growth in our income from operations per share (with a weighting of 50%),
  
sales growth (with a weighting of 30%), and
  
merger-related expense savings (with a weighting of 20%)
The 2005 performance goals for executive officers in our business lines include the corporate goals weighted as follows:
  
growth in income from operations per share (with a weighting of 15%),
  
sales growth (with a weighting of 5%), and
  
merger-related expense savings (with a weighting of 5%).
In addition, executive officers in our business lines have the following weighted as follows
  
line of business income from operations (with a weighting of 35%),
  
line of business sales growth (with a weighting of 25%), and
  
line of business merger-related expense savings (with a weighting of 15%).
(3)
 
Approved the performance goals for the three-year (2006-2008) ICP long-term performance cycle. The goals were as follows:
  
growth in income from operations per share (with a weighting of 33.3%),
  
sales growth (with a weighting of 33.3%), and
  
return on equity (with a weighting of 33.3%).
Income from operations is defined for the purposes of paragraphs (2) and (3) above as net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) excluding, as applicable, the after-tax effects of realized gain or losses on investments and derivatives, merger and integration costs, gains (losses) related to reinsurance embedded derivatives/trading account assets, cumulative effect of accounting changes, reserve changes on business sold through reinsurance net of related deferred gain amortization, gains (losses) on the sale of subsidiaries, and blocks of business and loss on early retirement of debt, including subordinated debt. In addition, income from operations for the purposes of paragraphs (2) and (3) above will exclude the after-tax merger/integration related expenses.
(4)
 
Approved the threshold-target-maximum long term incentive awards for the 2006-2008 performance cycle under the ICP. The amount of such awards for the named executive officers for the year ended December 31, 2005 (excluding John H. Gotta, former President and CEO of The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company, whose work completion date was March 31, 2006), plus the president and chief operating officer are as follows:
 
Participants will have the opportunity to elect to receive their award as either: 100% phantom performance shares (performance shares), or 75% performance shares and 25% cash (permitted only if current share ownership requirements are satisfied) within thirty (30) days of the date the 2006-2008 Cycle was established (by May 12, 2006). Participants entering the cycle after May 12, 2006 shall receive their awards entirely in performance shares. The ultimate payout of performance shares, and, in some cases, cash, will depend on the achievement of the various financial performance measures for the performance cycle, as discussed below. The Compensation Committees overview of 2006 long-term incentives for senior management committee members under the ICP is included in Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
The form of long-term incentive award agreement for senior management committee members (2006-2008 cycle) under the ICP is included in Exhibit 10.2 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
(5)
  
Approved grants of options (along with a new form of stock option agreement) under the ICP to our executive officers on April 13, 2006. The following named executive officers for the year ended December 31, 2005 received option awards:
All of the options expire on April 13, 2016 and vest 1/3 each year beginning on April 13, 2007. The form of option agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.3 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(6)
 
Adopted a policy advising Dennis R. Glass, our president and chief operating officer to use the corporate aircraft for business as well as personal travel, when practical. The policy was adopted due to security concerns and to allow for more efficient travel time so that the chief operating officer can devote more time to our business.
b)
 
The Board and Corporate Governance Committee approved that David A. Stonecipher in his capacity as lead director receive use of an office and secretarial support, and access to company aircraft for business purposes, plus up to 25 hours per year of flight time for personal use, with imputation of taxable income for any such use. Mr. Stonecipher will forego regular board compensation including retainer, meeting fees and stock options while serving in this capacity. The foregoing is subject to change or termination at any time by the Corporate Governance Committee.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The following exhibits are included with this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: April 18, 2006
 

Exhibit 10.1
The 2006 Long Term Incentives for SMC Members consist of:
The intent of the 2006 Long Term Incentives is to:
 
I.
 
Stock Options
SMC Members will receive one-half of their 2006 Long Term Incentives award target in the form of options to purchase share of LNC common stock. The options will have ten (10) year terms, with the exercise price set based on the fair market value of LNC common stock at the date of grant. The options will vesting ratably over three (3) years, with one-third vesting on each anniversary of grant date. The options are time-vested, not performance vestedin other words, they will vest simply on the basis of the passage of time, not on the achievement of performance criteria.
II.
 
2006-2008 Long-Term Incentive Performance Cycle Award
SMC Members will receive the other half of their 2006 Long Term Incentives award target as a 2006-2008 LTIP Performance Cycle award. Participants will have the opportunity to elect to receive their award as either: 100% phantom performance shares (performance shares), or 75% performance shares and 25% cash (permitted only if current share ownership requirements are satisfied) within thirty (30) days of the date the 2006-2008 Cycle was established (by May 12, 2006). Participants entering the cycle after May 12, 2006 shall receive their awards entirely in performance shares. The ultimate payout of LTIP performance shares, and, in some cases, LTIP cash, will depend on the achievement of the various financial performance measures for the performance cycle, as discussed below.
 
a.
 
Payout Philosophy for LTIP Performance Shares
 
Performance shares awarded under the 2006-2008 LTIP Performance Cycle are intended to provide competitive compensation relative to market, consistent with LNCs compensation philosophy. The LTIP shares are performance leveraged, with performance goals established at the beginning of the cycle such that achievement at the target performance level will produce median compensation. All performance measures are absolute. In setting the performance targets, an analysis was performed to ensure the targets were set consistently with the above philosophy.
 
The maximum award, 200% of target, will be paid when performance is superior, and a minimum award, 50% of target, will be paid out when a threshold level of performance is met. For an award of LTIP shares or LTIP cash to ultimately be paid out, the threshold or minimum achievement level for at least one of the three performance measures must be attained.
 
b.
 
LTIP Cycle Duration
 
The 2006-2008 LTIP Performance Cycle is based on performance period beginning on January 12, 2006, and ending on December 31, 2006, for a total cycle duration of 1,083 days (a normal three-year cycle, not including any leap years, will run a total of 1,095 days).
c.
 
Cycle Frequency
 
The 2006-2008 LTIP Performance Cycle will begin on January 12, 2006, upon approval by the Committee at its April 12, 2006 meeting. This cycle will run concurrently with other LTIP cycles. Normally, three cycles will be in effect at the same time.
d.
 
LTIP Performance Measures
 
 
The performance measures, all absolute, are growth in income from operations per diluted share (EPS), growth in return on equity (ROE), and growth in retail sales. Each measure will be equally weighted (33 1/3%) with respect to each participants potential award (Sales Growth).
 
At the beginning of the 2006-2008 LTIP Performance Cycle, at its April 12, 2006 meeting, the Compensation Committee set minimum, target, and maximum performance achievement levels for each measure. Awards where the actual performance falls in between the established minimum, target, and maximum achievement levels will be determined by interpolation.
e.
 
Payout Adjustments
 
The Compensation Committee retains the right to adjust individual targets during the cycle, and to modify payouts at the end of the cycle based on extraordinary circumstances during the cycle.
In deciding whether to adjust an individual target, or to modify a payout, the Committee can consider factors impacting results such as changing economic and market conditions, mergers or acquisitions, sale of a business, restructuring charges, reserve strengthening or release, or extraordinary natural occurrences or man-made events (e.g. acts of war).
In making such changes, the Committee may consider investor reaction, stock price performance, performance of peers and the CEOs recommendation. The guiding principle in making adjustments and modifications should be to encourage and reward management for consistently high financial and shareholder return performance relative to peers, while taking into consideration creation of shareholder value.
f.
 
Form of LTIP Compensation
 
The Compensation Committee shall designate both the award target and range for each LTIP participant. Participants who receive target compensation awards within the thirty (30) day period beginning on the date that the 2006-2008 LTIP Performance Cycle was approved (April 12, 2006 to May 12, 2006) may elect to receive his or her ultimate LTIP award (if any) in one of two forms:
 
 
 
Participants who fail to make an election by May 12, 2006, or who become an LTIP participant any time after April 12, 2006 will receive their LTIP award entirely in performance shares. Performance shares will be paid out in shares of LNC common stock. The number of shares of LNC common stock, if any, ultimately issued to an LTIP participant will be calculated based on the individuals target compensation award at the beginning of the cycle, divided by the Fair Market Value of LNC common stock on April 12, 2006 (as determined under the ICP), and the performance levels achieved with respect to the cycle. Dividends will accumulate with respect to the performance shares during the performance cycle and vest based on LTIP performance.
Changes in stock prices during the performance cycle will be to the participants advantage or disadvantage. No adjustments will be made at the end of the cycle for stock price changes
 
III.
 
Participants
 
All individuals designated by the CEO and approved by the Compensation Committee will participate in the award program.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
This award agreement (Agreement), by and between Lincoln National Corporation (LNC) and
 
 
 
 
(Grantee), evidences the grant by LNC on April 12, 2006, of a long-term incentive award to Grantee and Grantees acceptance of the award in accordance with and subject to the provisions of the Lincoln National Corporation Incentive Compensation Plan (Plan) and this Agreement. LNC and Grantee agree as follows:
1.
Form of Award.
The award shall equal one-half of Grantees long-term incentive target value, and shall be paid in shares of LNC common stock; provided, however, that if Grantee has satisfied the terms of LNCs share ownership requirements, Grantee may elect, by no later than
May 12, 2006
, to receive the award as follows: 100% in the form of shares of LNC common stock or 75% in the form of shares of LNC common stock and 25% in cash (if the election is not timely made, the form shall be 100% shares). If Grantee has not made a valid election by May 12, 2006, the Grantee will receive his or her LTIP award, if any, in 100% performance shares. During the performance cycle, the share component of such award shall consist of LNC stock units but any actual award shall be payable in shares of LNC common stock. Grantees actual award, if any, will be determined based on performance during the performance cycle in accordance with the terms of the Plan and the 2006-2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan (2006-2008 LTIP) approved by the Compensation Committee of the LNC Board of Directors (Committee). The Committee shall determine if and when any award is payable under the Plan and reserves the right to adjust the target award or payout amount of any award under the Plan at any time. The number of shares under this Agreement, if any, shall be adjusted appropriately in the event of a stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, or other similar event.
2.
Dividend Equivalents.
If an award becomes payable in shares of LNC common stock under this Agreement, Grantee shall also receive an amount equal to the dividends that would have been paid on such shares of LNC common stock had Grantee held such shares from the above date of grant through the date the award becomes payable. Such dividend equivalent amount shall be paid in shares of LNC common stock based on the Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan) of LNC common stock on the date the award becomes payable (with fractional shares paid in cash).
3.
Full or Pro-Rata Awards Upon Certain Events.
 
Except as provided in this section and section 5, if during the performance cycle Grantees employment (with LNC and all subsidiaries of LNC) terminates for any reason, Grantee shall not be entitled to any award under this Agreement. In the case of a Grantee's removal from the 2006-2008 LTIP because of a change in responsibilities (including, but not limited to, transfer from employee status to agent or planner status), death, Total Disability, Retirement, or involuntary termination of employment with LNC and all affiliates without Cause, Grantee (or Grantee's beneficiary, if applicable) shall receive a pro-rated award based on the ratio of: (a) days of employment during the performance cycle (January 12, 2006 though December 31, 2008) to (b) the number of total days in the performance cycle (1,083). Any such award shall be paid at the same time long-term incentive awards are normally paid to employees who are employed at the end of the performance cycle. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of such involuntary termination, any award shall be contingent on Grantee's release of claims against LNC and its affiliates (in form and substance satisfactory to LNC) and shall not be paid unless such release shall have become effective; except that such a release shall not be required when such termination is by reason of the sale or disposition of the business in which Grantee is employed.
 
 
 
4.
Tax Withholding.
In reference to a share award, Grantee must remit to LNC an amount equal to the required tax withholding on the value of the shares payable under this Agreement at such time as they are taxable to Grantee; and Grantee may elect to surrender shares of LNC stock (including shares that are a part of this award) to satisfy all or part of the required tax withholding. In reference to a cash award, LNC will withhold any required taxes from the award (federal, state, and local income, employment, and any other taxes).
5.
Change in Control.
 
Upon a Change in Control of LNC (as defined in the Plan), the Committee (as it shall have existed on the day immediately preceding such Change in Control) shall determine what, if any, award under this Agreement shall be provided to Grantee. In making such determination, the Committee shall consider the nature of such Change in Control, whether continuation of the Plan and payment of awards for this performance cycle are feasible, and whether the resulting corporate entity offers or commits to offer awards of comparable economic value; provided, however, that the Committees determination shall be consistent with existing LNC plans such as the LNC Incentive Compensation Plan and the LNC Executives Severance Benefit Plan.
 
6.
Transferability.
This award may not be transferred, sold, pledged, or otherwise encumbered, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
7.
Consequences of Competitive and Other Activity.
Any award under this Agreement is subject to the following requirements:
(a)
Noncompetition.
 
Grantee may not render services for any organization or engage directly or indirectly in any business that, in the sole judgment of the Chief Executive Officer of LNC or other senior officer designated by the Committee, is or becomes competitive with LNC. If Grantee has terminated employment, Grantee shall be free, however, to purchase, as an investment or otherwise, stock or other securities of such organization or business so long as they are listed upon a recognized securities exchange or traded over-the-counter and such investment does not represent a greater than five percent equity interest in the organization or business.
(b)
Nondisclosure.
Grantee shall not, without prior written authorization from LNC, disclose to anyone outside of LNC, or use in other than LNCs business, any confidential information or material relating to the business of LNC that is acquired by Grantee either during or after employment with LNC.
(c)
Inventions or Ideas.
Grantee shall disclose promptly and assign to LNC all right, title, and interest in any invention or idea, patentable or not, made or conceived by Grantee during employment by LNC, relating in any manner to the actual or anticipated business, research or development work of LNC and shall do anything reasonably necessary to enable LNC to secure a patent where appropriate in the United States and in foreign countries.
Grantee must provide LNC with a certification of compliance with these provisions prior to the payment of any cash or share award. Failure to comply with these provisions at any time prior to, or during the six months after, any such payment shall cause such payment to be rescinded. LNC must notify Grantee in writing of any such rescission. LNC, in its discretion, may waive compliance in whole or part in any individual case. Within ten days after receiving a rescission notice from LNC, Grantee must pay LNC the amount of any payment received (net of any withholding or other taxes paid by Grantee) as a result of the rescinded payment. Such payment by Grantee must be made either in cash or by returning the shares Grantee received in connection with the rescinded payment. However, if Grantees employment is terminated by LNC and its subsidiaries other than for fraud or other fidelity crimes, a failure of Grantee to comply with the noncompetition provisions after such termination shall not in itself cause rescission if the payment was made before the termination.
 
 
 
8.
Definitions.
As used in this Agreement:
 
Total Disability means (as determined by the Committee) a disability that results in Grantee being unable to engage in any occupation or employment for wage or profit for which Grantee is, or becomes, reasonably qualified by training, education or experience. In addition, the disability must be a disability that has lasted six months, is expected to continue for an additional six months or longer or to result in death, and must meet the definition of disabled under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A (as amended from time to time), and any applicable federal taxation rules.
Retirement
means, for purposes of this Agreement, Grantees retirement from LNC or a subsidiary at age 65 or older with at least five years of service (with LNC or a subsidiary) or, with the approval of Grantees employer, at age 55 or older with at least five years of such service.
Cause means (as determined by the Committee): (1) a conviction of a felony, or other fraudulent or willful misconduct by Grantee that is materially and demonstrably injurious to the business or reputation of LNC, or (2) the willful and continued failure of Grantee to substantially perform Grantees duties with LNC or a subsidiary (other than such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness), after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to Grantee by Grantees manager which specifically identifies the manner in which the manager believes that Grantee has not substantially performed Grantees duties.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, LNC, by its duly authorized officer has signed this Agreement as of the first date set forth above.
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
This Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement (the Agreement) evidences the terms of the grant by Lincoln National Corporation (LNC) of a Nonqualified Stock Option (the Option) to _______________________ (Grantee) on April 12, 2006 (the Date of Grant), and Grantees acceptance of the Option in accordance with and subject to the provisions of the Lincoln National Corporation Incentive Compensation Plan (the Plan) and this Agreement. LNC and Grantee agree as follows:
1.
 
Shares Optioned and Option Price
Grantee shall have an Option to purchase _________ shares of LNC common stock (the Shares) for $_____________ (United States dollars) for each Share.
2.
 
Vesting Dates
The Option for unvested Shares shall be forfeited upon Grantees termination of employment except as provided below. During Grantees employment, Shares shall vest as follows:
In addition, unvested Shares shall be deemed vested as of:
(a) 
the date of Grantees death;
(b) 
the date of Grantees termination of employment as a result of Total Disability
(as defined below);
(c)
 
the date of Grantees Retirement (as defined below);
 
(d)
 
the date of Grantees involuntary termination of employment with LNC and all subsidiaries, other than for Cause (as defined below), including the sale or disposition of the business that includes Grantees employment; provided, however, that Grantee executes an Agreement, Waiver and General Release, in form and substance satisfactory to LNC, in connection with such termination of employment (other than a termination due to the sale or disposition of the business that includes Grantees employment), in which case the Shares shall vest on the later of the date of such involuntary termination of employment and the date such agreement shall have become effective; or
 
(e) 
the date of a Change of Control of LNC as defined in the Plan (Change of Control).
Total Disability means (as determined by the Secretary of LNC) a disability that results in Grantee being unable to engage in any occupation or employment for wage or profit for which Grantee is, or becomes, reasonably qualified by training, education or experience. In addition, the disability must have lasted six months and be expected to continue for at least six more months or be expected to continue unto death.
 
 
 
Retirement
means, for purposes of this Agreement, Grantees retirement from LNC or a subsidiary at age 65 or older with at least five years of service (with LNC or a subsidiary) or, with the approval of Grantees employer, at age 55 or older with at least five years of such service.
Cause means (as determined by LNC in its sole discretion): (1) a conviction of a felony, or other fraudulent or willful misconduct by Grantee that is materially and demonstrably injurious to the business or reputation of LNC, or (2) the willful and continued failure of Grantee to substantially perform Grantees duties with LNC or a subsidiary (other than such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness), after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to Grantee by Grantees manager which specifically identifies the manner in which the manager believes that Grantee has not substantially performed Grantees duties.
3.
 
Exercise Period
Grantee may exercise all or part of the Option for vested Shares on any LNC business day at LNCs executive offices until the first to occur of:
 
 
 
LNC shall determine what constitutes termination of employment but for purposes of this Agreement (i) such termination shall not occur if Grantee has a full-time agents contract with LNC or a subsidiary and (ii) subsidiary shall include any corporation in which LNC has ownership of at least twenty-five percent.
4.
 
Manner of Exercise
To exercise an option, Grantee must, on an LNC business day, (1) deliver, mail or fax written notice of the exercise (in the form specified by LNC) to the LNC stock option administrative group and (2) submit full payment of the exercise price and the certification of compliance described below. Payment may be made in any combination of cash, personal check, or Shares. Such Shares must be owned for at least six months and will constitute payment to the extent of their Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan).
5.
 
Transfer of Shares Upon Exercise
As soon as practicable after the exercise date, LNC shall cause the appropriate number of Shares to be issued to Grantee. LNC shall not issue Shares until any required tax withholding payments are remitted to LNC by Grantee; and LNC may permit Grantee to surrender Shares or withhold Shares (from those that would otherwise be issued on exercise of the Option) to satisfy tax withholding obligations.
6.
 
Transferability
No rights under this Agreement may be transferred except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. The rights under this Agreement may be exercised during the lifetime of Grantee only by Grantee. After Grantees death, the Option may be exercised by the person or persons to whom the Option was transferred by will or the laws of descent or distribution.
7.
 
Consequences of Competitive and Other Activity
The grant and exercise of this Option are subject to the following requirements:
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Lincoln National Corporation has signed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.


