FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20071114150337.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 1.01.  Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
The description of the Stock Purchase Agreement (the Television Purchase Agreement) between Lincoln Financial Media Company (LFMC), a wholly owned subsidiary of Lincoln National Corporation (LNC), and Raycom Holdings, LLC (Raycom Holdings) in Item 8.01 is incorporated herein by reference in answer to this Item 1.01.
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
 
On November 12, 2007, LFMC entered into the Television Purchase Agreement with Raycom Holdings.  Pursuant to the Television Purchase Agreement, LFMC has agreed to sell to Raycom Holdings all of the outstanding capital stock of three of LFMCs wholly owned subsidiaries:  (i) WBTV, Inc., the owner and operator of television station WBTV, Charlotte, North Carolina, (ii) WCSC, Inc., the owner and operator of television station WCSC, Charleston, South Carolina, and (iii) WWBT, Inc., the owner and operator of television station WWBT, Richmond, Virginia.
 
Upon the completion of the transaction contemplated by the Television Purchase Agreement, LFMC expects to receive proceeds of $548 million, subject to certain adjustments.  LFMC and Raycom Holdings have each made customary representations, warranties and covenants in the Television Purchase Agreement.  The completion of the transaction contemplated by the Television Purchase Agreement is subject to regulatory approvals, including the expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (the HSR Act) and approval of the Federal Communications Commission (the FCC), and the satisfaction of other customary conditions, many of which are beyond LFMCs control, and no assurance can be given that such completion will occur.
 
LNC and Raycom Media, Inc., Raycom Holdings parent (Raycom), agreed to guaranty all of the obligations of LFMC and Raycom Holdings, respectively, under the Television Purchase Agreement.
 
On November 12, 2007, LFMC also entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (the Sports Purchase Agreement) with Raycom Holdings.  Pursuant to the Sports Purchase Agreement, LFMC has agreed to sell to Raycom Holdings all of the outstanding capital stock of Lincoln Financial Sports, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of LFMC.  Upon the completion of the transaction contemplated by the Sports Purchase Agreement, LFMC expects to receive proceeds of $35 million, subject to certain adjustments.  LFMC and Raycom Holdings have made customary representations, warranties and covenants in the Sports Purchase Agreement.  The completion of the transaction contemplated by the Sports Purchase Agreement is subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions, many of which are beyond LFMCs control, and no assurance can be given that such completion will occur.
 
LNC and Raycom agreed to guaranty all of the obligations of LFMC and Raycom Holdings, respectively, under the Sports Purchase Agreement.
 
Finally, on November 12, 2007, LFMC entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (the Radio Purchase Agreement) with Greater Media, Inc. (Greater Media).  Pursuant to the
 
Radio Purchase Agreement, LFMC has agreed to sell to Greater Media all of the outstanding capital stock of Lincoln Financial Media Company of North Carolina, the owner and operator of radio stations WBT(AM), Charlotte, North Carolina, WBT-FM, Chester, South Carolina and WLNK(FM), Charlotte, North Carolina.
 
Upon the completion of the transaction contemplated by the Radio Purchase Agreement, LFMC expects to receive proceeds of $100 million, subject to certain adjustments.  LFMC and Greater Media have each made customary representations, warranties and covenants in the Radio Purchase Agreement.  The completion of the transaction contemplated by the Radio Purchase Agreement is subject to regulatory approvals, including the expiration of the waiting period under the HSR Act and approval of the FCC, and the satisfaction of other customary conditions, many of which are beyond LFMCs control, and no assurance can be given that such completion will occur.
 
LNC agreed to guaranty all of the obligations of LFMC under the Radio Purchase Agreement.
 
On November 12 2007, LNC issued a press release regarding the foregoing transactions, which is filed as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  November 14, 2007

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
Philadelphia, November 12, 2007  Lincoln Financial Group (NYSE: LNC) today announced that it has reached definitive agreements to sell its three television stations in Charlotte, Richmond, and Charleston, as well as its sports syndication business, to Raycom Media for $583 million in cash. Lincoln Financial also announced that it has reached a separate definitive agreement with Greater Media to sell its Charlotte radio stations for $100 million in cash. The company will continue to operate and invest in its remaining radio properties to improve value and will explore options to divest those assets as market conditions dictate.
We are pleased to have reached these agreements with Raycom Media and Greater Media, said Lincoln Financial Group President and CEO Dennis R. Glass. Raycom has been a valuable partner in the sports syndication business and, given Raycoms presence in the southeastern U.S., is a logical partner for our television assets. Greater Media is a well-established company with significant radio holdings in Boston, Detroit, and Philadelphia, as well as throughout New Jersey. It is known for its belief in local management and community service. Both are high-quality media companies with a commitment to building these businesses.
Net proceeds from the transactions are expected to be used primarily for debt reduction and share repurchases. The sports syndication transaction is expected to close by early December. The transactions for the television and radio properties, which are expected to close by the second quarter of 2008, are subject to regulatory approval and other customary closing conditions. Management expects to provide additional information regarding the transactions at the companys 2007 Conference for Investors and Bankers on November 13, 2007.
 
Merrill Lynch & Co. served as exclusive financial advisor to Lincoln Financial Group.
About Lincoln Financial Group
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in Philadelphia, the companies of Lincoln Financial Group had assets under management of $251 billion as of September 30, 2007. Through its affiliated companies, Lincoln Financial Group offers: annuities; life, group life and disability insurance; 401(k) and 403(b) plans; savings plans; mutual funds; managed accounts; institutional investments; and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services. Affiliates also include: Delaware Investments, the marketing name for Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries; Lincoln Financial Media, which owns and operates three television stations, 18 radio stations, and the Lincoln Financial Sports production and syndication business; and Lincoln UK. For more information, including a copy of our most recent SEC reports containing our balance sheets, please visit .
www.LincolnFinancial.com
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking StatementsCautionary Language
Certain statements made in this release and in other written or oral statements made by Lincoln or on Lincolns behalf are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA).  A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will, shall and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance.  In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in our businesses, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results, and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings.  Lincoln claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements.  Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Lincolns annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact Lincolns business and financial performance.  Moreover, Lincoln operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on Lincolns business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.  Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.  In addition, Lincoln disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report.


