FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20071128171307.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
 
 
Item 5.04. Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrants Benefit Plans.
On November 21, 2007, we received a notice (the Notice) required by Section 101(i)(2)(E) of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, related to the spin-off of accounts of employees of our wholly owned subsidiary, Delaware Management Holdings, Inc., from the Lincoln National Corporation Employees Savings and Profit Sharing 401(k) Plan (the Lincoln Plan) into a new plan, the Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. Employees Savings and 401(k) Plan (the Delaware Plan) effective January 1, 2008.  These participants constitute less than ten percent of the Lincoln Plan participants.  The Notice describes a blackout period which will occur under the Lincoln Plan for participants in the Delaware Plan in connection with the separation of the Delaware Plan.  The Notice is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.  Shares of our common stock held in LNC common stock fund, a unitized fund investing exclusively in shares of LNC common stock, of the Lincoln Plan and, following the separation of the Delaware Plan, by participants in the Delaware Plan will be subject to the blackout period described in the Notice.  The blackout period described in the Notice will not prohibit our directors and executive officers from engaging in transactions regarding shares of our common stock outside of the Lincoln and Delaware Plans. The blackout will impact one executive officer who will participate in the Delaware Plan. During the blackout period, this officer will not be able to direct any transactions with respect to the LNC common stock fund.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The Exhibit Index set forth on page E-1 is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:  November 28, 2007
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
                                
 
 
In a separate mailing, you will receive additional information regarding your plan conversion, including the services that will be available to you through Wells Fargo.


