FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20070607163817.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 8.01. Other Events
On June 7, 2007, Lincoln National Corporation, or LNC, issued a press release announcing that it is exploring various potential strategic options for its media operations, including, but not limited to, divestiture strategies. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference.
In addition, to celebrate reaching an internal sales goal for variable annuities, LNC expects to inform employees that it has exceeded $1 billion in variable annuity deposits for the month of May. Monthly deposits may not be indicative of future results; however, LNC expects continued solid variable annuity flows during 2007.
 
The statements referenced in this report and in other written or oral statements made by LNC or on LNCs behalf are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will, shall and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, operations, trends or financial results. LNC claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
 
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. LNCs annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact LNCs business and financial performance. Moreover, LNC operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
 
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on LNCs business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undo reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, LNC disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The Exhibit Index set forth on page E-1 is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: June 7, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
PHILADELPHIA, June 7, 2007
- Lincoln Financial Group (NYSE: LNC) today announced plans to explore strategic options for Lincoln Financial Media, which owns and operates television and radio stations across seven major markets, as well as the Lincoln Financial Sports syndication and production business.  The company has engaged Merrill Lynch & Co. to advise on a range of options including, but not limited to, divestiture strategies for the media business.
 
Lincoln Financial Media is a well run business unit and widely respected within the broadcast industry.  As we begin our evaluation of strategic options for this business we look forward to determining a favorable course of action to benefit our key stakeholders, said Jon A. Boscia, Chairman and CEO of Lincoln Financial Group.
 
At this time there should be no assumption that this strategic review will result in any type of transaction. The company does not intend to provide updates to the strategic review process or disclose developments or potential outcomes until and unless a definitive course of action is reached.
 
Lincoln makes note of its long-standing policy against commenting on rumors, inquiries or speculation regarding corporate transactions, except by public disclosure.
 
 
 
 
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in Philadelphia, the companies of Lincoln Financial Group had assets under management of $237 billion as of March 31, 2007. Through its affiliated companies, Lincoln Financial Group offers: annuities; life, group life and disability insurance; 401(k) and 403(b) plans; savings plans; mutual funds; managed accounts; institutional investments; and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services. Affiliates also include: Delaware Investments, the marketing name for Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries; Lincoln Financial Media, which owns and operates three television stations, 18 radio stations, and the Lincoln Financial Sports production and syndication business; and Lincoln UK. For more information please visit
www.LFG.com.
 
 
Forward-Looking StatementsCautionary Language
 
Certain statements made in this release and in other written or oral statements made by Lincoln or on Lincolns behalf are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will, shall and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, operations, trends or financial results. Lincoln claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others: Legislative, regulatory or tax changes, both domestic and foreign, that affect the cost of, or demand for, Lincolns products, the required amount of reserves and/or surplus, or otherwise affect our ability to conduct business, including changes to statutory reserves and/or risk-based capital requirements related to secondary guarantees under universal life and variable annuity products such as Actuarial Guideline VACARVM; restrictions on revenue sharing and 12b-1 payments; and the potential for U.S. Federal tax reform; the initiation of legal or regulatory proceedings against Lincoln or its subsidiaries and the outcome of any legal or regulatory proceedings; Changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States that may result in unanticipated changes to Lincolns net income; Significant credit, accounting, fraud or corporate governance issues that may adversely affect the value of certain investments in the portfolios of Lincolns companies requiring that Lincoln realize losses on such investments; The impact of acquisitions and divestitures, restructurings, product withdrawals and other unusual items, including Lincolns ability to integrate acquisitions and to obtain the anticipated results and synergies from acquisitions; Acts of terrorism, war, or other man-made and natural catastrophes that may adversely affect Lincolns businesses and the cost and availability of reinsurance; Loss of key management and other employees; Changes in general economic or business conditions, both domestic and foreign, that may be less favorable than expected and may affect foreign exchange rates, premium levels, claims experience, the level of pension benefit costs and funding, and investment results.
 
 
 
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Lincolns annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact Lincolns business and financial performance. Moreover, Lincoln operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on Lincolns business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, Lincoln disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this release.


