FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20070731172514.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 31, 2007, the registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.  The registrants statistical supplement for the quarter ended June 30, 2007 is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference, and a supplemental schedule regarding the registrant's sub-prime residential mortgage-related investments as of June 30, 2007 is attached as Exhibit 99.3 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information, including exhibits attached hereto, furnished under this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are being furnished with this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  July 31, 2007

NEWS RELEASE
- Lincoln Financial Group (NYSE:LNC) today reported net income of $376.0 million, or $1.37 per diluted share, for the second quarter of 2007. By comparison, net income for the second quarter of 2006 was $349.0 million, or $1.23 per diluted share.
Philadelphia, PA, July 31, 2007
 
Income from operations for the second quarter of 2007 was $386.7 million, or $1.41 per diluted share, compared to second quarter 2006 income from operations of $351.4 million, or $1.25 per diluted share. The year-ago quarter reflects combined results from the Jefferson-Pilot merger that closed on April 3, 2006. Return on equity (ROE), based on income from operations, was 13.4%. The attached table defines and reconciles income from operations and ROE, non-GAAP measures, to net income and ROE calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
Consolidated Domestic Deposits and Net Flows
 
Consolidated retail deposits, which include individual annuities, mutual funds, life insurance and other personal wealth accumulation products together with retirement products sold into the employer-sponsored marketplace, were $8.0 billion, driven by a second consecutive quarter of double-digit increases in retail mutual funds, individual variable annuities, defined contribution mutual fund sales, and individual life insurance sales as compared to the second quarter of 2006. Investment management institutional deposits were $2.9 billion, up $113 million versus the prior-year period. Consolidated domestic net flows were $1.7 billion. At June 30, 2007, consolidated assets under management reached $245 billion, up 15% from the end of the second quarter of 2006.
 
Lincoln has delivered four quarters of strong results since the merger, demonstrating our ability to execute on key strategies and positioning the company for future growth, said Dennis R. Glass, president and chief executive officer of Lincoln Financial Group.
 
Individual Markets
 
Individual Annuities
 
 
1
 
Income from operations for the Individual Annuities segment was $130.1 million in the second quarter of 2007 versus $89.0 million in the year ago period. The current quarter included approximately $8 million, after tax, of net positive items, primarily related to better than expected investment income and the impact of fair value accounting on liabilities required under FAS 133 related to indexed annuity products.
 
In the quarter, gross deposits of $3.3 billion boosted net flows for the segment to $1.1 billion, up 63% versus the year-ago period. Deposits into variable annuity products reached a record $3.0 billion, with May and June each having sales in excess of $1 billion. Elections of Lincolns Advantage, a patented retirement income management tool, reached a record of $592 million, up 51% over the prior year period and surpassed the $1 billion dollar mark in the first half of the year.
i4LIFE
 
 
 and American Legacy had record deposits in the quarter, as sales were strong across all channels and included a year-over-year increase of 33% in the independent planner channel, which benefited from targeted wholesaler expansion, said Glass.
Lincoln ChoicePlus
SM
 
Individual Life Insurance
 
Individual Life Insurance income from operations was $176.4 million, compared to $147.1 million in the second quarter of 2006. The current quarter included approximately $16 million, after tax, of net positive items, which included better than expected investment income and favorable DAC unlocking partially offset by other negative items impacting universal life results.
 
Individual life insurance sales, reported as paid annualized premium, were $180.0 million in the second quarter, up 36% versus last year, driven by strong universal life sales, including a 32% increase in sales, a linked-benefit universal life insurance policy with a long term care rider.
MoneyGuard
 
In the quarter, we completed the launch of our unified universal life product portfolio, which positions us well from both a competitive and profitability standpoint, said Glass.
 
Employer Markets
 
Retirement Products
 
Defined Contribution
 
Second quarter income from operations for Defined Contribution was $47.3 million, versus $54.3 million for the same period a year ago. The current quarter included approximately $2 million, after tax, of net negative expense items primarily related to investments into distribution and other strategic initiatives.
 
 
 
2
In the quarter, gross deposits reached $1.3 billion and net flows were $74 million. The Program, a medium to large case employer-sponsored retirement plan solution, posted another strong quarter as deposits nearly doubled and account balances grew 43% versus second quarter of 2006.
Lincoln Alliance
 
Distribution expansion is progressing on schedule, contributing to the success of the Program this quarter. Recent successes in hiring new wholesalers and increasing shelf space are expected to drive future growth in the and products, said Glass.
Lincoln Alliance
Lincoln Director
SM
Lincoln American Legacy Retirement
SM
 
Executive Benefits
 
In the quarter, income from operations for Executive Benefits was $13.9 million, compared to $16.2 million in the second quarter of 2006. The prior-year quarter benefited from favorable mortality results.
 
Group Protection
 
For the second quarter, Group Protections income from operations was $29.0 million, versus $37.0 million in the prior-year period. Favorable non-medical loss ratios of 70.8% contributed approximately $3 million, after tax, to the current quarters results when comparing to the midpoint of the expected range of 71-74%.
 
In the quarter, annualized premiums for new business were $62.0 million, up 37% versus a challenging 2006 quarter.
 
Investment Management
 
The Investment Management segment reported income from operations of $11.3 million in the second quarter of 2007, which compares to $12.0 million in the prior-year period. The quarters results included net negative items of approximately $7 million, after tax, primarily attributable to the expenses for the closed-end fund announced at the end of June and an increase in litigation expenses.
 
Total deposits for the quarter were $6.2 billion, driven by continued strength in retail mutual fund sales of $1.9 billion, a 38% increase as compared to the second quarter of 2006. Both retail and institutional deposits were solid in the quarter while net flows were pressured by retail managed accounts and institutional product lines.
 
In the quarter, Delaware launched its first closed-end fund in over a decade, raising $235 million in assets. The income orientation of this fund aligns well with our retirement income focus as a company, said Glass.
 
 
 
3
Lincoln UK
 
For the second quarter, the UK segments income from operations was $11.7 million, versus $9.9 million in the same year-ago period. The foreign currency exchange rate continued to favorably impact the current quarters results.
 
Lincoln Financial Media
 
Lincoln Financial Media income from operations was $13.6 million in the second quarter of 2007, compared to $11.9 million in the prior-year period. The 2006 results were impacted by the amortization of intangible assets related to purchase accounting.
 
Other Operations
 
The operating loss in Other Operations was $46.6 million in the quarter. Results included merger-related expenses of $30 million, pre tax, and a $9 million, pre tax, curtailment gain related to the companys decision to freeze its traditional pension plans, consistent with last quarters announcement. In addition, the quarter included approximately $2 million, after tax, of unfavorable expense items.
 
Capital and Share Repurchase
 
As of June 30, 2007, the book value per share of Lincoln National Corporation common stock, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income, was $43.02, compared with $40.60 a year ago.  Book value per share, including accumulated other comprehensive income, was $43.57, compared with $40.48 a year ago. Lincoln did not repurchase shares in the second quarter, but retired an additional 182,000 on July 10, 2007, upon the close of the previously announced accelerated stock repurchase program.
 
2007 Outlook
 
Lincoln does not expect material changes to its guidance provided in the first quarter of 2007 earnings materials except for those items noted below.
 
Earnings Estimates
 
For the UK segment, the company anticipates earnings for the full year in the lower $40 million range, the expected increase driven primarily by the favorable exchange rate environment experienced in the first six months of the year.
 
Merger Integration
 
Merger-related expenses are expected to be in the range of $35-40 million, pre tax, in the third quarter and expected to reach the high end of the $90-110 million, pre tax, estimate for the full year of 2007.
 
Investment Spreads
 
 
4
 
For Individual Annuities, investment spreads are expected to stabilize in the 210 basis points range. The company anticipates spreads in the Individual Life business to be in the 180 basis points range for the remainder of the year. For Employer Markets, spreads are expected to stabilize in the 230 basis points range.
 
Stock Repurchase
 
Lincoln currently expects to repurchase approximately $100 million of stock during the third quarter of 2007. The actual amount of stock repurchase could be less than or exceed this amount depending on market conditions and alternative uses of capital. The company has $2.1 billion of security buyback authorization remaining.
 
This outlook contains estimates that are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially.  Lincolns actual experience in 2007 will almost certainly differ from many of the assumptions utilized in the outlook and the companys expectations for these and a large number of other factors will probably change, leading us to revise our estimates over time, such as changes that may result from our annual comprehensive review of the assumptions underlying DAC, VOBA, and DFEL that will occur during the third quarter. Please see the Forward-Looking Statements  Cautionary Language that follow for additional factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
 
Lincoln National Corporation will discuss the companys second quarter results and outlook for 2007 with investors in a conference call beginning at 11:00 a.m. (ET) on Wednesday, August 1, 2007.  Interested persons may also listen to the call by dialing the following numbers and asking for the Lincoln National conference call:
 
 
The company will post its second quarter 2007 statistical supplement and supplemental information detailing its sub-prime mortgage related investments on its Web site, .
www.LFG.com
 
 
 
5
 
 Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in Philadelphia, the companies of Lincoln Financial Group had assets under management of $245 billion as of June 30, 2007. Through its affiliated companies, Lincoln Financial Group offers: annuities; life, group life and disability insurance; 401(k) and 403(b) plans; savings plans; mutual funds; managed accounts; institutional investments; and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services.  Affiliates also include: Delaware Investments, the marketing name for Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries; Lincoln Financial Media, which owns and operates three television stations, 18 radio stations, and the Lincoln Financial Sports production and syndication business; and Lincoln UK. For more information please visit .
www.LFG.com
 
6
 
Definition of Income (Loss) from Operations and ROE
Income (loss) from operations and ROE, as used in the earnings release, are non-GAAP financial measures and are not substitutes for net income (loss) and ROE, calculated using GAAP measures.  Income (loss) from operations represents after tax results excluding, as applicable, realized gains or losses on investments and derivatives, cumulative effect of accounting changes, reserve changes on business sold through reinsurance, gain on sale of subsidiaries and book of business and loss on early retirement of debt.  The earnings used to calculate ROE, as used in the earnings release, are income (loss) from operations.  Income (loss) from operations is an internal measure used by the company in the management of its operations.  Management believes that this performance measure explains the results of the company's ongoing operations in a manner that allows for a better understanding of the underlying trends in the company's current business because the excluded items are either unpredictable and/or not related to decisions regarding the underlying businesses.
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
8
 
Certain statements made in this release and in other written or oral statements made by Lincoln or on Lincolns behalf are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA).  A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will, shall and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance.  In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, operations, trends or financial results.  Lincoln claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements.  Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Lincolns annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact Lincolns business and financial performance.  Moreover, Lincoln operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on Lincolns business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.  Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.  In addition, Lincoln disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report.
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

The companys exposure to sub-prime mortgage lending is limited to investments in banks and other financial institutions that may be impacted by sub-prime lending and direct investments in asset-backed securities collateralized debt obligations (ABS CDOs), residential mortgage asset-backed securities (ABS) and residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS).  RMBS are backed by residential mortgages and mortgage-related ABS are backed by home equity loans.  These securities are backed by loans that are characterized by borrowers of differing levels of creditworthiness: Prime, Alt-A and Subprime.  Alt-A Loan is the origination of residential mortgage loans to customers who have Prime credit profiles but lack documentation to substantiate income. Subprime lending is the origination of loans to customers with weak or impaired credit profiles.
The slowing U.S. housing market, increased interest rates and relaxed underwriting standards for some originators of residential mortgage loans and home equity loans have recently led to higher delinquency rates, especially for loans originated in 2006.  The company expects delinquency rates and loss rates on residential mortgages and home equity loans to increase in the future; however, the company expects to continue to receive payments in accordance with contractual terms of the securities, largely due to the seniority of the claim on the collateral. The tranches of the securities will experience losses according to their seniority level with the least senior (or most junior), typically the unrated residual tranche, taking the first loss. The credit ratings of the securities reflect the seniority of the securities  that we own.  The companys residential mortgage backed securities had an amortized cost of $8.7 billion and an unrealized loss of $135 million, or 1.5%, which is primarily due to the impact of changes in interest rates.
 The tables below summarize the nature of the companys investments in securities backed by pools of residential mortgages or home equity loans, the credit quality of the underlying loans backing the securities and the year in which the loans backing our securities were originated. Investments backed by sub-prime loans were $861 million and represented 1.2% of the companys total investment portfolio as of June 30, 2007. The amortized cost and fair value of the sub-prime investments were $861 million and $832 million, respectively.  93% of sub-prime investments were rated A or above and $431 million of the companys sub-prime investments were backed by loans originating in 2005 and forward.
None of these investments include any direct investments in sub-prime lenders or mortgages. The company has exposure related to investments made by the hedge funds and limited partnerships that we own, but is not aware of material exposure to sub-prime in those asset-classes.
 
 
 
 
Certain statements made in this document and in other written or oral statements made by Lincoln or on Lincolns behalf are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA).  A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will, shall and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance.  In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, operations, trends or financial results.  Lincoln claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements.  Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Lincolns annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact Lincolns business and financial performance.  Moreover, Lincoln operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on Lincolns business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.  Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.  In addition, Lincoln disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report.
 
 


