FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20070910141843.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
Currently, we own 8,155,785 shares of Bank of America common stock (B of A common stock).  On September 7, 2007, we entered into a variable forward contract with Wachovia Bank, National Association with respect to four million shares of our B of A common stock and received approximately $144.5 million in proceeds.  We are retaining the ordinary dividends in connection with the four million shares, which currently amount to $10.24 million annually.  We intend to use the proceeds to repurchase shares of our common stock over the remainder of 2007, which is in addition to our guidance of $100 million of share repurchase in third quarter.
In addition to retaining the ordinary dividends, the variable forward contract allows us to monetize a portion of our B of A common stock while maintaining voting rights, as well as providing for downside protection and the ability to participate in future stock price appreciation up to a cap price of $61.25 per share, during the term of the contract.  The variable forward contract is scheduled to settle in September 2010, at which time we would deliver shares or cash.  If we settle in shares, the actual number of shares to be delivered will be determined based on the volume-weighted average price of the B of A common stock over a period of ten trading days prior to the settlement date.  We can also elect to settle that amount in cash.  We have pledged four million shares of B of A common stock as collateral to support our future delivery obligations under the contract, which will result in establishing an initial liability on our balance sheet of approximately $170 million.  In addition, we will accrue an interest expense of approximately $8.5 million, pre-tax, on an annual basis, beginning on the effective date of the contract.
In the ordinary course of their business, Wachovia and its affiliates have engaged, and may in the future engage, in financial advisory and/or investment banking transactions, bank service relationships, and distribution arrangements with us and our affiliates, including participating as a lender under our bank lines and as an underwriter in our recent offering of $300,000,000 5.65% Senior Notes due 2012.  They have received and will receive customary fees and commissions for these transactions.
 
Except for historical information contained or incorporated by reference in this report, statements made in this report are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will, shall and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance.  In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, operations, trends or financial results.  We claim the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
 
 
 
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements.  Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive.  Our annual reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include additional factors which could impact our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undo reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, we disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this prospectus.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  September 10, 2007


