FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20071030173955.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 30, 2007, the registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, and the registrants statistical supplement for the quarter ended September 30, 2007 is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information, including exhibits attached hereto, furnished under this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are being furnished with this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  October 30, 2007

 
NEWS RELEASE
- Lincoln Financial Group (NYSE:LNC) today reported net income of $329.6 million, or $1.21 per diluted share, for the third quarter of 2007. By comparison, net income for the third quarter of 2006 was $364.1 million, or $1.29 per diluted share.
Philadelphia, PA, October 30, 2007
 
Income from operations for the third quarter of 2007 was $352.9 million, or $1.29 per diluted share, compared to third quarter 2006 income from operations of $371.1 million, or $1.31 per diluted share. Return on equity (ROE), based on income from operations, was 12.0%. The attached table defines and reconciles income from operations, ROE, and book value per share excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI), non-GAAP measures, to net income, ROE, and book value per share including AOCI calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
Third quarter earnings include the results of Lincoln Financials annual comprehensive review of prospective assumptions underlying certain assets and liabilities, primarily Deferred Acquisition Costs (DAC), Value of Business Acquired (VOBA), and Deferred Front End Loads (DFEL).
 
Consolidated Domestic Deposits and Net Flows
 
Consolidated domestic deposits, which include wealth accumulation and retirement planning products such as individual annuities, mutual funds, life insurance and employer-sponsored solutions together with institutional investment products, were $10.9 billion, up 28% over the third quarter of 2006. Strong deposits in the major retail segments, including record individual variable annuity and defined contribution mutual fund deposits, drove retail net flows to $1.8 billion, a threefold increase compared to the year-ago period. At September 30, 2007, consolidated assets under management reached $251 billion, up 14% from the end of the third quarter of 2006.
 
This quarters results reflect Lincoln Financials strong underlying operating fundamentals. In the face of volatile markets, production was strong across the company,
 
1
while our risk management programs held up under significant pressure, said Dennis R. Glass, president and chief executive officer of Lincoln Financial Group.
 
Individual Markets
 
Individual Annuities
 
Income from operations for the Individual Annuities segment was $106.9 million in the third quarter of 2007 versus $129.4 million in the year-ago period. The current quarter included approximately $16 million, after tax, of net negative items primarily related to hedge program performance and the impact of fair value accounting on liabilities required under FAS 133 related to indexed annuity products. These unfavorable adjustments were partially offset by net positive DAC unlocking. The 2006 quarter included approximately $29 million, after tax, of net positive items primarily related to favorable tax adjustments.
 
In the quarter, record gross deposits of $3.5 billion increased by 28% versus the year-ago period, and net flows for the segment quadrupled to $1.3 billion as strong variable annuity deposits combined with declining fixed annuity withdrawals. Deposits into variable annuity products reached $3.0 billion for the second consecutive quarter and net flows increased by 49% to $1.5 billion.
 
Quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year, we continue to exceed industry growth rates and our previous variable annuity milestones, due to product and wholesaling depth and breadth as well as the increasing demand for these products in retirement planning. These results have helped boost variable annuity account values by 30% since the end of the 2006 quarter, said Glass.
 
Individual Life Insurance
 
Individual Life Insurance income from operations was $173.6 million, compared to $122.8 million in the third quarter of 2006. The current quarter included approximately $16 million, after tax, of net positive items, primarily related to DAC unlocking and a favorable tax adjustment. The 2006 quarters results were negatively impacted by approximately $17 million, after tax, primarily related to DAC unlocking adjustments.
 
Individual life insurance sales, reported as paid annualized premium, were $179.9 million in the third quarter, up 18% versus last year, driven by continued strength in universal life sales, including , a linked-benefit universal life insurance policy with a long term care rider, and a 36% increase in variable universal sales.
MoneyGuard
 
Our comprehensive suite of life insurance products and expanded distribution efforts drove double-digit sales growth in multiple channels and top distribution partners,
 
2
while inforce and account values continued to grow in the mid-to-high single digit range, said Glass.
 
Employer Markets
 
Retirement Products
 
Defined Contribution
 
Third quarter income from operations for Defined Contribution was $41.2 million, versus $52.5 million for the same period a year ago. The current quarter included approximately $3 million, after tax, of net negative items primarily related to prospective and retrospective DAC unlocking. The 2006 quarter included approximately $4 million, after tax, of net positive items primarily related to the favorable tax adjustments.
 
In the quarter, gross deposits reached $1.5 billion, up 40% over the third quarter of 2006, and net flows were $133 million. Record deposits of $861 million into the Program, a medium to large case employer-sponsored retirement plan solution, represented the third consecutive quarter of year-over-year increases exceeding 50%.
Lincoln Alliance
 
We expect our ongoing investments in distribution, technology and product development to fuel production and long-term earnings growth while putting pressure on near-term earnings, said Glass.
 
Executive Benefits
 
In the quarter, income from operations for Executive Benefits was $11.0 million, compared to $12.8 million in the third quarter of 2006. The current quarter included approximately $2 million, after tax, of net negative items primarily related to DAC unlocking.
 
Group Protection
 
For the third quarter, Group Protections income from operations was $33.2 million, versus $28.8 million in the prior-year period. Favorable non-medical loss ratios of 68.6% contributed approximately $8 million, after tax, to the current quarters results when comparing to the midpoint of the expected range of 71-74%.
 
In the quarter, annualized premiums for new business were $60.8 million, up 21% versus the 2006 quarter.
 
Investment Management
 
The Investment Management segment reported record income from operations of $21.8 million in the third quarter of 2007, which compares to $13.4 million in the prior-year period. The 2007 quarter included approximately $1 million, after tax, of favorable
 
3
expense items. The growth in income was primarily attributable to an 11% increase in investment advisory fees, which drove the pre-tax operating margin to 22.7%.
 
Total deposits for the quarter were $5.7 billion, driven by $1.5 billion of retail mutual fund sales, a 34% increase versus the year-ago period.
 
Other Segments Results
 
For the third quarter, the UK segments income from operations was $10.3 million, versus $8.3 million in the same year-ago period. The current quarter included approximately $2 million, after tax, of net negative items primarily related to reserve adjustments. The third quarter of 2006 included a net negative impact of approximately $3 million, after tax, primarily related to an unfavorable prospective DAC unlocking adjustment.
 
Lincoln Financial Media income from operations was $13.6 million in the third quarter of 2007, compared to $14.6 million in the prior-year period.
 
The operating loss in Other Operations was $58.9 million in the quarter versus a loss of $11.5 million in the third quarter of 2006. The third quarter of 2007 included approximately $8 million, after tax, of unfavorable expense items, including executive retirement benefits. Merger-related expenses in the current quarter were $29.3 million, pre tax. The year-ago quarter included net positive items of approximately $13 million, after tax, primarily related to an insurance recovery related to past mis-selling claims in the UK operation.
 
Capital and Share Repurchase
 
As of September 30, 2007, the book value per share of Lincoln National Corporation common stock, including AOCI, was $44.41, compared with $43.39 a year ago. Book value per share, excluding AOCI, was $43.68, compared with $41.20 a year ago. Lincoln repurchased 3.1 million shares in the third quarter at a total cost of $174.6 million.
 
Realized Gains and Losses
 
The company reported net realized losses of $23.7 million in the quarter, including gross realized losses and write downs of approximately $11 million, pre DAC and pre tax, on securities backed by subprime-related loans.
 
2007 Outlook
 
Lincoln Financial does not expect material changes to its previous guidance except for those items noted below.
 
Merger Integration
 
4
Merger-related expenses are expected to be in the $30 million range, pre tax, in the fourth quarter of 2007.
 
Share Repurchase
 
The company currently expects to repurchase approximately $200 million of stock during the fourth quarter of 2007. The actual amount of stock repurchase could be less than or exceed this amount depending on market conditions and alternative uses of capital. The company has approximately $2 billion of security buyback authorization remaining.
 
This outlook contains estimates that are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially.  Lincoln Financials actual experience in 2007 will almost certainly differ from many of the assumptions utilized in the outlook and the companys expectations for these and a large number of other factors will probably change, leading us to revise our estimates over time. Please see the Forward-Looking Statements  Cautionary Language that follow for additional factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
 
Lincoln Financial Group will discuss the companys third quarter results and outlook for 2007 with investors in a conference call beginning at 11:00 a.m. (ET) on Wednesday, October 31, 2007. Interested persons may also listen to the call by dialing the following numbers and asking for the Lincoln National conference call:
 
 
The company will post its third quarter 2007 statistical supplement on its Web site, .
www.lincolnfinancial.com/investor
 
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in Philadelphia, the companies of Lincoln Financial Group had assets under management of $251 billion as of September 30, 2007. Through its affiliated companies, Lincoln Financial Group offers: annuities; life, group life and disability insurance; 401(k) and 403(b) plans; savings plans; mutual funds; managed accounts; institutional investments; and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services.  Affiliates also include: Delaware Investments, the marketing name for Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries; Lincoln Financial Media, which owns and operates three television stations, 18 radio stations, and the Lincoln Financial Sports production and syndication business; and Lincoln UK. For more information, including a copy of our most recent SEC reports containing our balance sheets, please visit .
www.lincolnfinancial.com
5
6
 
Definition of Income (Loss) from Operations and ROE
Income (loss) from operations and ROE, as used in the earnings release, are non-GAAP financial measures and are not substitutes for net income (loss) and ROE, calculated using GAAP measures.  Income (loss) from operations represents after tax results excluding, as applicable, realized gains or losses on investments and derivatives, cumulative effect of accounting changes, reserve changes on business sold through reinsurance, gain on sale of subsidiaries and book of business and loss on early retirement of debt.  The earnings used to calculate ROE, as used in the earnings release, are income (loss) from operations.  Income (loss) from operations is an internal measure used by the company in the management of its operations.  Management believes that this performance measure explains the results of the company's ongoing operations in a manner that allows for a better understanding of the underlying trends in the company's current business because the excluded items are either unpredictable and/or not related to decisions regarding the underlying businesses.
 
Definition of Book Value per share excluding AOCI
Book value per share excluding accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI") is calculated based upon a non-GAAP financial measure. It is calculated by dividing (a) stockholders' equity excluding AOCI by (b) common shares outstanding. We provide book value per share excluding AOCI to enable investors to analyze the amount of our net worth that is primarily attributable to our business operations. We believe book value per share excluding AOCI is useful to investors because it eliminates the effect of items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period, primarily based on changes in interest rates. Book value per share is the most directly comparable GAAP measure. A reconciliation of book value per share to book value per share excluding AOCI as of September 30, 2007 and 2006 is set forth below.
7
 
 
8
 
Certain statements made in this release and in other written or oral statements made by Lincoln or on Lincolns behalf are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA).  A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will, shall and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance.  In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in our businesses, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results, and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings.  Lincoln claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements.  Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Lincolns annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact Lincolns business and financial performance.  Moreover, Lincoln operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
.
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on Lincolns business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.  Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.  In addition, Lincoln disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report
 
 
9

 


