FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20070404110338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
As part of our continuing merger integration, on April 2, 2007, we completed the merger of one of our wholly owned insurance subsidiaries, Jefferson-Pilot Life Insurance Company, a North Carolina domiciled insurer, with and into The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company (LNL), an Indiana domiciled insurer. LNL remains an Indiana domiciled insurer. We also completed the merger of Jefferson Pilot LifeAmerica Insurance Company (JPLA), a New Jersey domiciled insurer, and Lincoln Life & Annuity Company of New York, a New York domiciled insurer. JPLA has been redomiciled to New York and renamed Lincoln Life & Annuity Company of New York (LLANY), effective as of April 2, 2007.
The insurer financial strength ratings are expected to remain:
The insurance entity merger was an important step in our merger integration process enabling the launch of our unified product portfolio in the next few months and driving greater efficiencies in our overall operations.
Forward-Looking StatementsCautionary Language
 
Certain statements made in this report and in other written or oral statements made by Lincoln National Corporation (Lincoln) or on Lincolns behalf are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA). A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will, shall and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective services or products, future performance or results of current and anticipated services or products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, operations, trends or financial results. Lincoln claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Lincolns quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, annual reports on Form 10-K and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact Lincolns business and financial performance. Moreover, Lincoln operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
 
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on Lincolns business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, Lincoln disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this release.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: April 4, 2007


