FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20081010111336.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 10, 2008, we issued a press release announcing preliminary financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, a copy of which is
attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information, including exhibits attached hereto, furnished under this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
As indicated in the news release announcing preliminary financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1, we are suspending share repurchases for the remainder of the year and have reduced our quarterly dividend on common stock from $ 0.415 to  $ 0.21 per share.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The Exhibit Index set forth on page E-1 is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date:  October 10, 2008

 
                         NEWS RELEASE
 Lincoln Financial Group (NYSE:LNC) today announced preliminary third quarter results, including an update on the companys capital and liquidity positions. Net income is expected to be in the range of $120 million to $180 million, or $0.50 to $0.70 per diluted share, for the third quarter of 2008. Income from operations for the third quarter of 2008, is expected to be in the range of $280 million to $320 million, or $1.10 to $1.25 per diluted share, including deferred acquisition cost (DAC) unlocking as a result of the companys annual assumption and DAC model review.
Philadelphia, PA, October 10, 2008
The table at the end of this release defines and reconciles income from operations per share, a  non-GAAP measure, to net income per share calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Retail Retirement and Insurance Deposits and Flows
The company estimates consolidated retail deposits into retirement and insurance products, which include individual annuities, defined contribution plans, individual life insurance, and other wealth accumulation and protection products to be $5.4 billion for the third quarter of 2008, compared to $6.0 billion a year ago. Consolidated retail net flows in retirement and insurance products are expected to be $1.7 billion versus $2.1 billion in the 2007 quarter.
Dennis R. Glass, president and CEO, said, Even in difficult economic conditions, our core retirement and insurance businesses performed well and we remain well-positioned to execute on our business strategy. While external conditions have pressured our earnings and stock price and have led to higher asset impairments, our liquidity position is strong both at the holding company and within our insurance operations.
 
1
 
Glass added, We believe our third quarter excess capital position and the action we are taking to reduce the dividend serve to defend our strong capital base and improve our overall financial flexibility while maintaining a solid dividend for our shareholders.
Realized and Unrealized Gains and Losses/Impairment Charge
The company expects to report net realized losses on investments and derivatives, including the results of the variable annuity hedge program, in the range of $140 million to $160 million, after tax and DAC, or approximately $0.55 to $0.60 per diluted share, for the third quarter. Gross realized investment losses and impairments were approximately $400 million, pre DAC and tax, the majority of which were concentrated in financial institutions, with the remaining write downs largely attributable to Alt-A residential mortgage backed securities.
The company estimates the net unrealized loss position for available-for-sale securities, including unrealized gains, to be in the range of $1.8 to $2.0 billion, after DAC and tax, at the end of the third quarter. In the third quarter, the gross unrealized loss position increased by approximately $1.9 billion to $4.9 billion, pre DAC and tax, primarily attributable to spread widening as a result of overall illiquidity in the credit markets.
Capital and Dividend Action
Lincoln Financial estimates its excess capital position to be $500 million at the end of the third quarter, which the company believes would support a risk based capital (RBC) position of approximately 385% for its principal insurance subsidiary, The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company.
The Board of Directors has declared a quarterly dividend on common stock of $0.21 per share to be paid on February 1, 2009 to shareholders of record on January 9, 2009. Assuming the current number of issued and outstanding shares, the reduction from the $0.415 dividend per share paid in recent quarters would add approximately $50 million to capital each quarter. The company believes the combination of strong capital ratios at the end of the third quarter and the action taken to reduce the common dividend are consistent with its commitment to maintain AA ratings, and the company has no current plans to raise equity capital.
 
2
Liquidity
Both the holding company and insurance companies have ample liquidity to satisfy their respective obligations. In addition to cash and cash equivalents of approximately $3 billion, the company has diverse sources of liquidity including revolving credit facilities of over $1 billion, securities lending capacity, and borrowing capacity from the Federal Home Loan Bank.  Steady earnings and cash flow from insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries also support holding company liquidity needs. Lincoln has $120 million of commercial paper outstanding at the end of the third quarter and has adequate liquidity on hand to retire these maturities if necessary. The company has approximately $430 million outstanding under its securities lending program, which is invested in high-quality, short-term money market investments.
As of September 30, 2008, the company estimates book value per share to be in the range of $44 to $45, excluding AOCI, and $36 to $38, including AOCI. The company repurchased approximately 1 million shares in the third quarter at a total cost of $50 million and is suspending repurchase activity for the remainder of 2008 while monitoring overall capital conditions.
Lincoln Financial will update its 2008 guidance in its third quarter earnings release and conference call.
The data presented and the statements made in this release represent estimates and are based on information available at this time. As the company is still refining its estimates, including those related to prospective DAC unlocking in the Life Insurance segment, the companys actual financial results for the quarter may differ materially from its preliminary estimates. Management will continue to monitor conditions, given the turbulent capital markets and developing economic environment. Please see the Forward-Looking Statements  Cautionary Language that follow for factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
The company will report its third quarter earnings after market close on Tuesday, October 28, 2008. A conference call is scheduled for Wednesday, October 29, 2008, at 11:00 a.m. ET to discuss the third quarter earnings and related matters for the company and its business segments. Earnings material, including the third quarter 2008 Earnings Release and Statistical Supplement,
 
3
 
will be made available through www.LincolnFinancial.com/investor after market close on Tuesday, October 28, 2008.
Interested persons are invited to listen through the internet. Please visit www.LincolnFinancial.com/webcast at least fifteen minutes prior to the event to register, download and install any necessary streaming media software.
Interested persons may also listen to the call by dialing the following numbers:
 
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in Philadelphia region, the companies of Lincoln Financial Group had assets under management of $221 billion as of June 30, 2008. Through its affiliated companies, Lincoln Financial Group offers: annuities; life, group life and disability insurance; 401(k) and 403(b) plans; savings plans; mutual funds; managed accounts; institutional investments; and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services. Affiliates also include: Delaware Investments, the marketing name for Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries; and Lincoln UK. For more information, including a copy of our most recent SEC reports containing our balance sheets, please visit .
www.LincolnFinancial.com
 
4
 
Definition of Income (Loss) from Operations
Income (loss) from operations, as used in the earnings release, is a non-GAAP financial measures and is not a substitute for net income (loss), calculated using GAAP measures.  Income (loss) from operations represents after-tax results excluding, as applicable, income (loss) from the initial adoption of changes in accounting principles, income (loss) from reserve changes (net of related amortization) on business sold through reinsurance, losses on early retirement of debt, including subordinated debt, income (loss) from discontinued operations, and losses from the impairment of intangible assets and realized gains and losses associated with the following: sale or disposal of securities; impairments of securities; change in the fair value of embedded derivatives within certain reinsurance arrangements and the change in the fair value of related trading securities; change in the fair value of the embedded derivatives of our guaranteed living benefits within our variable annuities net of the change in the fair value of the derivatives we own to hedge the changes in the embedded derivative; net difference between the benefit ratio unlocking of SOP 03-1 reserves on our guaranteed death benefit riders within our variable annuities and the change in the fair value of the derivatives excluding our expected cost of the hedging instruments; and changes in the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities related to index call options we may purchase in the future to hedge contract holder index allocations applicable to future reset periods for our indexed annuity products as required under SFAS 133/157.
5
 
Certain statements made in this release and in other written or oral statements made by Lincoln or on Lincoln's behalf are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("PSLRA"). A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: "believe", "anticipate", "expect", "estimate", "project", "will", "shall" and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in our businesses, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results, and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings. Lincoln claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Lincoln's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact Lincoln's business and financial performance. Moreover, Lincoln operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on Lincoln's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, Lincoln disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of the release.
6


