FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20080716161104.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
 
 
 
This amendment is being filed solely to include a new page 18 of the statistical supplement attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.  We have made no other changes to the Form 8-K or to the exhibits attached hereto.
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
We are changing our definition of income from operations for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2008.  Our new definition of income from operations is GAAP net income excluding:
*    Realized gains and losses associated with the following:
*    Sale or disposal of securities;
*    Impairments of securities;
*    Change in the fair value of embedded derivatives within certain reinsurance arrangements and the change in the fair value of related trading securities;
*    Change in the fair value of the embedded derivatives of our guaranteed living benefits within our variable annuities net of the change in the fair value of the derivatives we own to hedge the changes in the embedded derivative;
*    Net difference between the benefit ratio unlocking of SOP 03-1 reserves on our guaranteed death benefit riders within our variable annuities and the change in the fair value of the derivatives excluding our expected cost of the hedging instruments; and
*    Changes in the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities related to index call options we may purchase in the future to hedge contract holder index allocations applicable to future reset periods for our indexed annuity products as required under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) Nos. 133 and 157;
*    Income (loss) from the initial adoption of changes in accounting principles;
*    Income (loss) from reserve changes (net of related amortization) on business sold through reinsurance;
*    Losses on early retirement of debt, including subordinated debt; and
*    Income (loss) from discontinued operations.
We are changing our definition of income from operations to better reflect the underlying economics of our variable and indexed annuities that employ derivative instruments to hedge policy benefits and the manner in which management evaluate that business.  Our change in the definition of income from operations is primarily the result of our adoption of SFAS No. 157 during the first quarter of 2008.  Under SFAS No. 157s fair value calculation, we are required to fair value these annuities from an exit value perspective, i.e., what a market participant or willing buyer would charge to assume the liability.  We, therefore, must include margins that a market participant buyer would require as well as a factor for non-performance risk related to our credit quality.  We do not believe that these factors relate to the economics of the underlying business and do not reflect the manner in which management evaluates the business.
 
 
To aid investors in their understanding of our new definition of income from operations prior to issuing our results for the quarter ended June 30, 2008, we are providing our previously issued statistical supplement for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, revised to reflect the new definition of income from operations.  A copy of the statistical supplement for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 revised for the new definition of income from operations is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
We are also attaching as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporating herewith a copy of the slides in connection with our investor presentation to be held on July 16, 2008 at 11:00 a.m. (E.D.T), during which members of management will discuss the new definition of income from operations and related matters.
We are currently in our quiet period regarding second quarter results, which means that we are currently analyzing our results for the second quarter 2008.  Therefore, we will not be discussing our second quarter results, which we will release on July 29, 2008.  You should not rely on the information in the presentation or in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 as being indicative of actual second quarter results, and we do not hereby undertake any obligation to provide such information during the presentation or to update such information except through our public earnings release.
Interested persons may listen to a webcast of the presentation and obtain a copy of the reissued statistical supplement and the slide presentation by going to our website--www.lincolnfinancial.com by clicking Investor Relations and then Webcasts.
 
The information, including exhibits attached hereto, furnished under this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except page 1 of Exhibit 99.1 shall be incorporated by reference in our registration statements filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, which by their terms incorporate documents by reference.
 
Forward Looking Statements  Cautionary Language
 
Certain statements made in this report and in other written or oral statements made by Lincoln or on Lincoln's behalf are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("PSLRA"). A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: "believe", "anticipate", "expect", "estimate", "project", "will", "shall" and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in our businesses, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results, and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings. Lincoln claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
 
 
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Lincoln's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact Lincoln's business and financial performance. Moreover, Lincoln operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
 
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on Lincoln's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, Lincoln disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report.
 
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are being furnished with this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  July 16, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
Investor inquiries may be directed to:
Jim Sjoreen, Vice President, Investor Relations
Voice: (484) 583-1420
Fax: (484) 583-3962
Note: This list is provided for informational purposes only.  LFG does not endorse the analyses, conclusions, or recommendations contained in any report issued by these or any other analysts.
** Statistical data will be available immediately after the release of earnings for each quarter through LNCs Investor Relations website: .
http://www.LincolnFinancial.com/investor
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


