FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20081119080403.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 19, 2008, we posted slides to be used in connection with our 2008 Conference for Investors and Bankers, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Conference for Investors and Bankers is being held on Wednesday, November 19, 2008, beginning at approximately 8:40 a.m. (ET).  Interested persons are invited to listen through the internet, either live or through on-demand replay. The replay will be available for approximately one year beginning November 20, 2008. Please visit www.lincolnfinancial.com/webcast at least fifteen minutes prior to the event to register, download and install any necessary streaming media software.
The definitions of the non-GAAP measures used in the slides along with our reasons for using them are set forth below.  Reconciliations are at the end of the slides.
Income (loss) from operations and ROE, as used in the earnings release, are non-GAAP financial measures and are not substitutes for net income (loss) and ROE, calculated using GAAP measures.  Income (loss) from operations represents after-tax results excluding, as applicable, realized gains and losses associated with the following: sale or disposal of securities; impairments of securities; change in the fair value of embedded derivatives within certain reinsurance arrangements and the change in the fair value of related trading securities; change in the fair value of the embedded derivatives of our guaranteed living benefits within our variable annuities net of the change in the fair value of the derivatives we own to hedge the changes in the embedded derivative; net difference between the benefit ratio unlocking of SOP 03-1 reserves on our guaranteed death benefit riders within our variable annuities and the change in the fair value of the derivatives excluding our expected cost of the hedging instruments; and changes in the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities related to index call options we may purchase in the future to hedge contract holder index allocations applicable to future reset periods for our indexed annuity products as required under SFAS 133 and SFAS 157, income (loss) from the initial adoption of changes in accounting principles, income (loss) from reserve changes (net of related amortization) on business sold through reinsurance, losses on early retirement of debt, including subordinated debt, losses from the impairment of intangible assets and income (loss) from discontinued operations.
The earnings used to calculate ROE, as used in the earnings release, are income (loss) from operations.  Income (loss) from operations is an internal measure used by the company in the management of its operations.  Management believes that this performance measure explains the results of the company's ongoing businesses in a manner that allows for a better understanding of the underlying trends in the company's current business because the excluded items are unpredictable and not necessarily indicative of current operating fundamentals or future performance of the business segments, and, in most instances, decisions regarding these items do not necessarily relate to the operations of the individual segments.
Book value per share excluding AOCI is calculated based upon a non-GAAP financial measure. It is calculated by dividing (a) stockholders' equity excluding AOCI, by (b) common shares outstanding. Management provides book value per share excluding AOCI to enable investors to analyze the amount of our net worth that is primarily attributable to our business operations. Management believes book value per share excluding AOCI is useful to investors because it eliminates the effect of items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period, primarily based on changes in interest rates. Book value per share is the most directly
 
comparable GAAP measure. A reconciliation of book value per share to book value per share excluding AOCI as of September 30, 2008 and 2007 is set forth below.
Item 7.01.   Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The response to Item 2.02 is hereby incorporated by reference in answer to this Item 7.01.
 
 
Certain statements made in this Form 8-K and during the presentation are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA).  A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will, shall and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance.  In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in our business, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings.  We claim the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements.  Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements, include, among others:
 
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive.  Risk Factors below as well as our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include additional factors that could impact LNCs business and financial performance, which are incorporated herein by reference.  Moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing and competitive environment.  New risk factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.  Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.  In addition, we
 
disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  November 19, 2008
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


