FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20080818134519.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.04. Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrants Employee Benefit Plans.
On August 18, 2008, we received the notice (the Notice) required by Section 101(i)(2)(E) of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, of a change in recordkeepers, administrative and trustee services, and investment fund options for the Lincoln National Corporation Employees Savings and Retirement Plan, the Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. Employees Savings and 401(k) Plan, The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company Agents Savings and Profit-Sharing Plan and The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company Agents Money Purchase Pension Plan (collectively, the Plans), effective October 1, 2008.  As a result, the Notice states that participants in the Plans will be temporarily unable to direct or diversify the investment of assets (including those invested in the LNC common stock fund) in their Plan accounts, obtain a loan from the Plans or obtain a distribution from the Plans beginning on September 25, 2008 at 4:00 p.m. (E.T.) and ending during the week of October 12, 2008 (the Blackout Period).
On August 18, 2008, we transmitted a notice (BTR Notice) to our directors and executive officers informing them of the Blackout Period regarding the Plans.  The BTR notice also informed our directors and executive officers that during the Blackout Period, our directors and executive officers will be prohibited generally from directly or indirectly purchasing, selling or otherwise acquiring or transferring any of our equity securities or certain derivative securities previously acquired in connection with their service as a director or executive officer, unless exempt under Regulation BTR of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.   During the Blackout Period and for a period of two years thereafter, security holders and other interested persons may obtain, without charge, information regarding the Blackout Period, including the actual ending date of the Blackout Period, by contacting Lincoln Alliance Program Customer Service at 800-234-3500 or c/o Lincoln Financial Group, P.O. Box 7888, Fort Wayne IN 46801-7888. 
The Notice is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.  The BTR Notice is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The Exhibit Index set forth on page E-1 is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  August 18, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
You should be aware that there is a risk to holding substantial portions of your assets in the securities of any one company, as individual securities tend to have wider price swings, up and down, in short periods of time, than investments in diversified funds.  Stocks that have wide price swings might have a large loss during the blackout period, and you would not be able to direct the sale of such stocks from your account during the blackout period.
 
 

Reason for the Blackout Period and This Notice
The Company has decided to transfer the duties for recordkeeping, trustee, and administrative services for the plans listed below to the Companys program effective October 1, 2008, and to change the available investment options under the plans.  The plans affected by the changes are:
Lincoln Alliance
During and a result of these changes, the account activity in the Plans will be restricted.  Participants in the Plans will not be able to make changes to their investments in the Plans, or obtain loans or take distributions from the Plans during the period of time described below (the Blackout Period).  During the Blackout Period, you will be subject to certain restrictions with respect to trading of equity securities of the Company.  The Blackout Period is imposed on executive officers and directors of the Company by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation BTR (Blackout Trading Restriction) and is in addition to the Companys trading windows related to its earnings releases.
Blackout Period
The Blackout Period under the Plans is necessary so that the recordkeepers of the Plans may properly audit and reconcile plan and participant account records.  The Blackout Period for the Plans is expected to begin on September 25, 2008 at 4:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) and is expected to end during the week of October 12, 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trading Restrictions
During the Blackout Period, you will be prohibited from directly or indirectly purchasing, selling or otherwise acquiring or transferring the Companys common stock, any other equity security or certain derivative securities of the Company, including stock options, if you acquire or previously acquired such equity security in connection with your service as a director of the Company or employment as an executive officer of the Company.
Please note the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Certain exemptions from these rules apply, but the exemptions are narrow and you should consult with me before any action is taken concerning Companys equity securities during the Blackout Period.  Also, please feel free to contact me if you have any other questions regarding this notice.
 
 
      You may obtain information, without charge, about the blackout period, including information as to whether the blackout period has begun or ended, by contacting Program Customer Service at 800-234-3500 or c/o Lincoln Financial Group, P.O. Box 7888, Fort Wayne, IN  46801-7888.
Lincoln Alliance
 
 


