FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20081117095359.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On November 17, 2008, Lincoln National Corporation (LNC) issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On November 14, 2008, LNC applied with the Office of Thrift Supervision to become a savings and loan holding company concurrently with reaching an agreement to acquire Newton County Loan & Savings, FSB, a federally regulated savings bank, located in Indiana. Subject to customary terms and conditions, the acquisition of Newton County Loan & Savings, FSB, is expected to close following receipt of approval from the Office of Thrift Supervision. LNC also filed an application with the U.S. Treasury to participate in the TARP Capital Purchase Program (TARP CPP).
LNC's applications to become a savings and loan holding company and to participate in the TARP CPP are subject to approvals from the Office of Thrift Supervision and the U.S. Treasury.  Accordingly, there can be no assurance that it will become a savings and loan holding company or participate in the TARP CPP.
 
Certain statements made in this Form 8-K are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA).  A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will, shall and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance.  In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in our business, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings.  We claim the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements.  Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements, include, among others:
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive.  Risk Factors below as well as our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include additional factors that could impact LNCs business and financial performance, which are incorporated herein by reference.  Moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing and competitive environment.  New risk factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.  Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.  In addition, we disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The Exhibit Index set forth on page E-1 is incorporated herein by reference.
 
3
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  November 17, 2008
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E-1
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 Lincoln Financial Group (NYSE: LNC) today announced that it has applied with the Office of Thrift Supervision to become a savings and loan holding company concurrent with reaching an agreement to acquire Newton County Loan & Savings, FSB, a federally regulated savings bank. Subject to customary terms and conditions, the acquisition of Newton County Loan & Savings, FSB, is expected to close following receipt of approval from the Office of Thrift Supervision. The company also filed an application with the U.S. Treasury to participate in the TARP Capital Purchase Program (TARP CPP).
Philadelphia, PA, November 17, 2008 
Lincoln Financials applications to become a savings and loan holding company and to participate in the TARP CPP are subject to approvals from the Office of Thrift Supervision and the U.S. Treasury.
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in the Philadelphia region, the companies of Lincoln Financial Group had assets under management of $200 billion as of September 30, 2008. Through its affiliated companies, Lincoln Financial Group offers: annuities; life, group life and disability insurance; 401(k) and 403(b) plans; savings plans; mutual funds; managed accounts; institutional investments; and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services. Affiliates also include: Delaware Investments, the marketing name for Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries; and Lincoln UK. For more information, including a copy of our most recent SEC reports containing our balance sheets, please visit www.LincolnFinancial.com.
 
 
 
 
 
Certain statements made in this release and in other written or oral statements made by Lincoln or on Lincoln's behalf are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("PSLRA"). A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: "believe", "anticipate", "expect", "estimate", "project", "will", "shall" and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in our businesses, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results, and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings. Lincoln claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
 
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Lincoln's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact Lincoln's business and financial performance. Moreover, Lincoln operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on Lincoln's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, Lincoln disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of the release.


