FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20090819164835.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
Item 1.01.  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
 
As of August 18, 2009, Lincoln National Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiary, Lincoln National Investment Companies, or we, us, our or the Sellers, entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement with Macquarie Bank Limited, Inc., or MBL, pursuant to which we agreed to sell to MBL all of the outstanding capital stock of Delaware Management Holdings, Inc., our subsidiary, or Delaware, which provides investment products and services to individuals and institutions.  MBL is a subsidiary of Macquarie Group Limited, which is a global provider of banking, financial, advisory, investment and funds management services.  This transaction is expected to close on or around December 31, 2009.  At closing, we will receive $320 million in addition to the value of net assets (excluding goodwill and as otherwise defined as set forth in the Purchase and Sale Agreement) of Delaware and its subsidiaries as estimated at closing.  In addition, a revenue run-rate adjustment mechanism will be applied in the event that the closing revenue run-rate of Delaware is less than 90% of its revenue run-rate on April 30, 2009 (the Base Revenue Run-Rate), provided that the resulting percentage shall not exceed 15%.  In the event that the closing revenue run-rate of Delaware is less than 75% of the Base Revenue Run-Rate, the buyer may exercise the option to terminate the transaction.  Based on the foregoing, we currently expect to receive cash consideration at closing of approximately $428 million; however, this number may differ based on the adjustments set forth above.
The revenue run-rates will be calculated in a manner that excludes the impact of any distributions of interest, dividends, income or capital gains from any client account and any increase or decrease in assets under management due to changes in the markets and/or currency fluctuations. 
 
     The closing purchase price is also subject to post-closing adjustments based on a final closing balance sheet and actual client retention.  In addition, certain of our subsidiaries, including The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company, our primary insurance subsidiary, will enter into investment advisory agreements with Delaware, pursuant to which Delaware will continue to manage the majority of the general account insurance assets of the subsidiaries.  The investment advisory agreements will have ten-year terms, and we may terminate them without cause by paying an aggregate termination fee of up to $84 million that will decline on pro rata basis over the ten-year term of the advisory agreements.
   
 
MBL and we have each made customary representations, warranties and covenants, as applicable, in the Purchase and Sale Agreement.  The Purchase and Sale Agreement also contains customary indemnifications, including our indemnifying MBL with respect to pending litigation.  The completion of the transaction contemplated by the Purchase and Sale Agreement is subject to regulatory approvals and the satisfaction of other customary conditions, some of which are beyond our control, and no assurance can be given that such completion will occur.
 
The transaction is expected to be neutral to earnings per share assuming reinvestment of net proceeds back into core insurance businesses.  We currently expect the gain/loss on sale recorded in the third quarter to be break-even under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; however, the actual gain or loss may differ from our expected result depending upon, among other things, the actual purchase price after closing adjustments.
 
On August 19, 2009, we issued a press release announcing the foregoing transaction.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Certain statements made in this Form 8-K and in other written or oral statements made by us or on our behalf are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA).  A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will, shall and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance.  In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in our business, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings.  We claim the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
 
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements.  Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive.  Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include additional factors that could impact our business and financial performance.  Moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing and competitive environment.  New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
 
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.  Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.  In addition, we disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this Form 8-K.
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
                 In a Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 10, 2009, we reported that we had entered into an agreement with the U.S. Department of the Treasury (Treasury) to sell preferred stock and warrants to the Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program ("CPP").  In accordance with the terms of the agreement, we are subject to certain regulations which place limitations on bonus and incentive compensation for certain officers and employees.
     Consistent with these limitations, we approved compensation changes for Patrick P. Coyne, President of Delaware, in conjunction with the sale of Delaware pursuant to the Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of August 18, 2009, as described above in Item such that he will receive approximately $2.208 million in salary during that time, which shall be paid ratably each pay period.  This modification is consistent with past practice of targeting overall compensation near median as compared with market data, provided by a third party compensation consultant, for executives in equivalent positions who work in similarly sized investment entities.
   
1.01, to eliminate prohibited incentive compensation.
  Mr. Coynes
compensation was modified
for the remainder of the year
 
     Our Compensation Committee is currently in the process of evaluating modifications to the overall compensation for its other named executives and employees who are subject to the limitations under the CPP but who are not affected by the sale of Delaware.
   
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION
 
By           
/s/ Frederick J. Crawford
Name:     Frederick J. Crawford
Title:       Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
Date:  August 19, 2009
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
PHILADELPHIA, August 19, 2009  Lincoln Financial Group (NYSE: LNC) today announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to sell Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Delaware Investments), its asset management unit, to Macquarie Group, a Sydney, Australia-headquartered global provider of banking, financial, advisory, investment and funds management services. Lincoln Financial expects to receive cash consideration of approximately $428 million, subject to certain closing adjustments. The transaction is expected to close on or around December 31, 2009, subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.
We believe the greatest opportunities for growth and differentiation for Lincoln Financial going forward are centered on our principal insurance and retirement businesses, said Dennis R. Glass, President and CEO, Lincoln Financial Group. This transaction will allow us to focus both management and capital resources on these core businesses.
Delaware Investments will continue managing Lincoln Financial general account insurance assets under a long-term contract, and will provide additional sub-advisory services. Lincoln Financial remains committed to providing access to high-quality asset management services by selecting best-in-class sub-advisors, including Delaware Investments, for its retirement and insurance products.
Glass added, We look forward to continuing our strategic relationship with the Delaware Investments team as it becomes a key part of Macquaries global asset management platform.
By close, Lincoln Financial expects that its distribution team for Delaware Investments funds and separately managed accounts will move from its wholesale distribution arm, Lincoln Financial Distributors, Inc., to Delaware Investments.
The proceeds of the sale will be used for general corporate purposes, including potentially contributing to retiring a portion of the CPP preferred shares outstanding when it is appropriate to do so.
Goldman, Sachs & Co. acted as financial advisor to Lincoln Financial Group.
About Lincoln Financial Group
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in the Philadelphia region, the companies of Lincoln Financial Group had assets under management of $181 billion as of June 30, 2009. Through its affiliated companies, Lincoln Financial Group offers: annuities; life, group life and disability insurance; 401(k) and 403(b) plans; savings plans; mutual funds; managed accounts; institutional investments; and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services. Affiliates also include: Delaware Investments, the marketing name for Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries; and Lincoln UK. For more information, including a copy of our most recent SEC reports containing our balance sheets, please visit www.LincolnFinancial.com.
Contacts:       Jim Sjoreen                                                                   Lauren Sammerson
484 583-1420                                                                 336 691-3125
Investor Relations                                                       Media Relations
investorrelations@LFG.com                                      mediarelations@LFG.com
Forward Looking Statements  Cautionary Language
Certain statements made in this press release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("PSLRA").  A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: "believe", "anticipate", "expect", "estimate", "project", "will", "shall" and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance.  In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in our businesses, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results, and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings.  Lincoln claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements.  Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Lincoln's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact Lincoln's business and financial performance. Moreover, Lincoln operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on Lincoln's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, Lincoln disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this release.


