FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20090319164009.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of  Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On March 16, 2009, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the Committee) established the 2009 Severance Plan for Officers of Lincoln National Corporation (the Severance Plan) to clarify prior severance practices.  The Severance Plan is effective for the one-year period beginning on January 1, 2009 and ending on December 31, 2009.  The Severance Plan provides severance benefits to our officers, and specifically, provides for 52 weeks of  severance benefits to our executive officers, including our named-executive officers, as well as a lump-sum severance payment of $200/week for each week of the severance period. Executive officers are paid in a lump sum no earlier than the first day of the month which is six months after the date the officers job was eliminated.
In order to qualify for benefits under the Severance Plan, each affected officer must sign our standard form of agreement, waiver and release of claims which will include a non-compete provision, among other conditions.
The foregoing is a summary of the terms of the Severance Plan and is qualified in its entirety by the Severance Plan document, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
On March 16, 2009, Lincoln National Corporation, or LNC, issued a press release announcing the several leadership appointments among its executive officers.  Mark E. Konen, previously President of Insurance Solutions and interim head of Retirement Solutions, has been formally named President of Retirement Solutions, in addition to Insurance Solutions.  Charles C. Cornelio has been appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer.  Additionally, Heather Dzielak has been named Chief Marketing Officer.
LNC also announced company-wide restructuring efforts, in addition to those initiated at the end of 2008, which together are expected to produce estimated run-rate cost savings of approximately $250 million, pre-DAC and pre-tax, by year-end 2009.  The recent reduction of the quarterly common dividend to $0.01 per share along with the after-tax impact of the expense reductions is expected to reduce LNCs annual cash requirements by approximately $550 million.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
The statements referenced in this report and in other written or oral statements made by LNC or on LNC's behalf are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("PSLRA").  A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: "believe", "anticipate", "expect", "estimate", "project", "will", "shall" and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance.  In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in our
 
businesses, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results, and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings.  Lincoln claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements.  Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. LNC's annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact LNC's business and financial performance. Moreover, LNC operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on LNC's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, LNC disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of the release.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
The following Exhibits are being furnished with this Form 8-K.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  March 19, 2009
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
Purpose and Interpretation.
The 2009 Severance Plan For Officers of Lincoln National Corporation (the Plan) is established by the Corporation to provide enhanced severance benefits to Officers of the Corporation during the one-year period beginning on January 1, 2009 and ending on December 31, 2009.
The Plan is intended to comply with section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (the Code) enacted by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and the official guidance issued thereunder (the 409A Rules).  Specifically, this Plan is intended to represent a separation pay plan as defined by the 409A Rules.  It is intended that benefits under this Plan shall be paid only in cases of Job Elimination as defined below.  The term Job Elimination as used in this Plan is an actual involuntary separation from service as defined in the 409A Rules.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, this Plan shall be interpreted, operated and administered in a manner consistent with these intentions.
Article I: Definitions
means the of (i) two times the sum of the Officers annual rate of pay determined as of December 31 of the calendar year prior to the year in which the Officer is Job Eliminated, or (ii) two times the maximum amount that may be taken into account under a qualified plan pursuant to Code section 401(a)(17) in effect for the calendar year in which the Job Elimination occurs.   In calculating the Applicable Cap, all amounts that are defined as payments under a separation pay plan sponsored by the Corporation for an individual Officer are aggregated.
Applicable Cap
lesser
 
st
 shall have the same meaning as used and/or defined in the ERISA Severance Plan.
Cause
 shall have the same meaning as used and/or defined in the Change of Control Plan.
Change of Control
 means the Lincoln National Corporation Executive Severance Benefit Plan.
Change of Control Plan
 means Lincoln National Corporation and its affiliates and subsidiaries.
Corporation
 means March 16, 2009.
Effective Date
 means the Lincoln National Corporation Severance Pay Plan, Effective December 19, 2008, as amended from time to time.
ERISA Severance Plan
 means the Officers rate of pay as determined under the guidelines used by his or her respective business unit and is consistent with the rate of pay used for other company benefits (e.g., for annual enrollment, disability coverage, life insurance coverage).
Established Compensation
 shall have the same meaning as used and/or defined in Section 1.05 of the ERISA Severance Plan; except that if the Officer is involuntary terminated by the Corporation for any reason (other than for Cause) within two years of a Change of Control, the Officer shall be deemed Job Eliminated.
Job Elimination
 shall mean any Officer treated as a specified employee under Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i), i.e., a key employee (as defined in Code section 416(i) without regard to paragraph (5) thereof) as of the date of his or her Job Elimination from the Corporation.  Key Employees shall be determined in accordance with Code section 409A using December 31 as the determination date.  A listing of Key Employees as of any determination date shall be effective for the 12-month period beginning on the April 1 following the determination date.
Key Employee
st
st
 shall mean those officers listed in the Corporate Directory for each Participating Employer.  
Officers
 
 means any affiliate or subsidiary of Lincoln National Corporation that is listed in Appendix A to this Plan.
Participating Employer
Article II: Eligibility for Benefits
The benefits provided under this Plan are the Severance Pay benefit described in Article III below, and the Severance Stipend benefit described in Article IV below.  All Officers who are Job Eliminated by the Corporation on or after January 1, 2009 and before December 31, 2009, and who meet the conditions set forth below, shall be eligible for Plan benefits.  Plan benefits will be
 
-2-
retroactive for those eligible Officers Job Eliminated during 2009 but prior to the Effective Date, and any payments calculated for this retroactive period will be paid to the Officer in a cash lump sum as soon as practical after the Effective Date.
In order to qualify for the Severance Pay and Severance Stipend benefits, the Officer must be Job Eliminated by the Corporation, as defined above, and must satisfy of the three (3) conditions set forth below:
each
Benefits under this Plan will not be paid unless each of the above requirements of this Article II have been met.
Article III: Amount of
Severance Pay
Severance Pay is based on the Officers annual base salary or Established Compensation, whichever is higher, in effect at the time of Job Elimination.  Severance Pay is paid for each week of the applicable Severance Period, as provided below:
See below for more information regarding the coordination of the Severance Pay benefit payable under this Plan, and similar benefits under the ERISA Severance Plan, the Change of Control Plan, or any other plans, programs and arrangements sponsored by the Corporation that pay severance benefits.
-3-
IV.  Amount of Severance Stipend
All Officers shall be entitled to receive a cash payment in the amount of $200/week for each week of the Severance Period, as determined pursuant to Article III above.
See below for more information regarding the coordination the Severance Stipend benefit payable under this Plan, and similar benefits under the ERISA Severance Plan, the Change of Control Plan, or any other plans, programs and arrangements sponsored by the Corporation that pay severance benefits.
V.  Timing of Payments
In general, payments under the Plan will be paid, or begin to be paid, as soon as practical after the date the Officer becomes eligible for benefits as described in Article II above, but in no event later than 90 days after the date of Job Elimination.  However, for amounts the Applicable Cap (as defined in Article I above) that are payable to a Key Employee, or amount of Plan benefits payable to an Officer covered under the Change of Control Plan who is also a Key Employee, benefits under this Plan will begin to be paid no earlier than the first day of the month that is a full six months after the date of the Officers Job Elimination.  No interest or other compensation will be paid to the Officer in consideration of such delay.
in excess of
any
VI.  Form of Payment
.  Except as provided below, Severance Pay is paid bi-weekly.  In no event shall Severance Pay be paid later than December 31 of the second calendar year following the calendar year in which the Job Elimination occurs.
Severance Pay
st
.  The Severance Stipend is paid in a cash lump sum.
Severance Stipend
.  Not withstanding the foregoing, any Severance Pay or the Severance Stipend payable under this Plan to any Officer who is covered under the Change of Control Plan and who is also a Key Employee will always be paid in the same time and manner (distribution form) as the benefit described in Section 5(b) of the Change of Control Plan.
Rule for Key Employees Covered under the Change of Control Plan
 
-4-
VII.  Coordination With Other Plans, Programs & Arrangements
Any Severance Pay or Severance Stipend payable pursuant to this Plan is not eligible to be contributed to any of the Corporations qualified savings or 401(k) plans, nor eligible to be deferred under a non-qualified savings or deferred compensation arrangement.  No Severance Pay or Severance Stipend is considered in the calculation of any qualified or non-qualified defined benefit plan benefits.
Any amounts of Severance Pay and Severance Stipend payable under this Plan shall be reduced by, or offset by, on a dollar-for-dollar basis, any benefits that may also be payable to the Officer under the ERISA Severance Plan.  In addition, if the Officer is also eligible, for benefits pursuant to the terms of the Change of Control Plan, then any amount of Severance Pay and Severance Stipend payable to the Officer under this Plan shall offset or reduce the amount payable to the Officer under the Change of Control Plan.  The purpose of this paragraph is to prevent double-dipping, or the payment of duplicative severance benefits under one or more plans sponsored by the Corporation.
Except as expressly provided in this paragraph, this Plan does not amend or otherwise modify the provisions of any of the plans, programs, arrangements or agreements established, maintained or entered into by the Corporation for the purpose of providing benefits to employees.
-5-
Delaware Management Holdings, Inc.
California Fringe Benefit & Insurance and Marketing Corp.
First Penn-Pacific Life Insurance Company
LFA Limited Liability Co.
LFA Management Corporation
Lincoln Financial Advisors Corporation
Lincoln Financial and Insurance Services Corporation
Lincoln Life & Annuity Company of New York
Lincoln National Corporation
Lincoln National Management Corporation
The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company
 
 
-6-

EXHIBIT 99.2
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 Lincoln Financial Group (NYSE:LNC) today announced that it is taking additional steps to streamline the organization and reduce expenses during this period of prolonged economic stress. The company has also made several key leadership appointments designed to support the companys growth and operational effectiveness: has been named President of Retirement Solutions as well as Insurance Solutions; has been appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer; and has been named Chief Marketing Officer.
Philadelphia, PA, March 16, 2009
Mark E. Konen
Charles C. Cornelio
Heather Dzielak
Given the continuing difficulty in market conditions, Lincoln Financial initiated a company-wide restructuring effort at the end of last year. This effort has already identified estimated run-rate cost saves of $150 million, pre-DAC and pre-tax, by year-end 2009, as previously disclosed. Additional actions currently underway will increase expense-save targets to approximately $250 million, pre-DAC and pre-tax, by year-end 2009.
Dennis R. Glass, president and CEO of Lincoln Financial, said, These initiatives represent our ongoing commitment to appropriately align our structure to the external environment while continuing to execute on our business strategies. The recent dividend actions, which will reduce our holding company cash requirements by $400 million annually, combined with the after-tax impact of our expense reductions, improves our annualized cash run rate by approximately $550 million.
The leadership moves reinforce the companys strategic alignment around insurance and retirement solutions while preserving its focus on responsive product development. Konen, who previously served as interim head of Retirement Solutions, will continue to focus on the divisions strategy of following customers through their cycle of investing, from asset accumulation to income distribution. He will also maintain his current responsibilities as president of Insurance Solutions, which is focused on a customers wealth protection and wealth transfer needs throughout life, and work to leverage potential strategies between the two divisions.
Cornelio leads the newly formed Enterprise Services Group, comprised of Law, Compliance, Marketing, Information Technology (IT) and Shared Services, which includes the organizations
 
 
 
 
customer service centers. As head of the Enterprise Services Group, Cornelio will continue to spearhead many enterprise-wide programs, including leading the current restructuring effort.
Dzielak, reporting to Cornelio, will lead the research, marketing, advertising and strategic communications functions, and support business unit priorities while exploring further ways to drive growth and innovation.
Our leaders are drawing on their extensive industry experience to navigate through this difficult period while driving initiatives that are designed to serve our customers and fuel our growth. Marks deep expertise in product development and risk management will keep us focused on providing financial solutions designed to address customers needs throughout their lives. Chucks specific experience in designing operational structures that maximize efficiency and effectiveness will be instrumental to our overall success. Heathers leadership will foster close and effective collaboration across the organization, along with greater integration of marketing programs, added Glass.
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in the Philadelphia region, the companies of Lincoln Financial Group had assets under management of $178 billion as of December 31, 2008. Through its affiliated companies, Lincoln Financial Group offers: annuities; life, group life and disability insurance; 401(k) and 403(b) plans; savings plans; mutual funds; managed accounts; institutional investments; and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services. Affiliates also include: Delaware Investments, the marketing name for Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries; and Lincoln UK. For more information, including a copy of our most recent SEC reports containing our balance sheets, please visit www.LincolnFinancial.com.
 
Investor Contacts:
Jim Sjoreen
484 583-1420
E-mail: Investorrelations@LFG.com
Media Contact:
Laurel OBrien
484 583-1735
E-mail:  MediaRelations@LFG.com
Certain statements made in this release and in other written or oral statements made by Lincoln or on Lincoln's behalf are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("PSLRA").  A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: "believe", "anticipate", "expect", "estimate", "project", "will", "shall" and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance.  In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in our businesses, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results, and the
 
 
 
 
outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings.  Lincoln claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements.  Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
 
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Lincoln's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact Lincoln's business and financial performance. Moreover, Lincoln operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on Lincoln's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, Lincoln disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of the release.


