FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20090330102824.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company (the Company), our wholly owned subsidiary, and Commonwealth Annuity and Life Insurance Company (Commonwealth), a wholly owned subsidiary of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. entered into a Coinsurance and Modified Coinsurance Agreement (the Agreement).  Pursuant to the Agreement, effective as of March 31, 2009, the Company will cede approximately $1.5 billion of estimated reserves, benefits and obligations related to a closed block of business consisting of certain of its universal life and variable universal life policies.  The covered reserves and assets will be adjusted after the effective date to reflect actual amounts as of March 31, 2009.
On March 27, 2009,
Under a coinsurance program, the reinsurer receives its agreed upon share of all of the risks and cash flows of the covered business.  The reinsurer receives its share of the premiums and benefits, and assets to support its share of the reserves transferred to the reinsurer. A modified coinsurance, or Modco, program, differs from coinsurance only in that it is carried out on a funds withheld basis, i.e., assets supporting the reserves are not transferred to the reinsurer, and the ceding company is required to pay interest to replace that which would have been earned by the reinsurer if it had held the assets corresponding to the reserves in its own investment portfolio. 
Including the release of capital required to support the block of business, we estimate the transaction will provide approximately $240 million in statutory capital relief, resulting in a risk-based capital (RBC) ratio benefit of approximately 20 percentage points for the Company.  We also expect the transaction to reduce annual consolidated net income by approximately $20 million. 
On March 30, 2009, we issued a press release describing the transaction, which is filed as exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
Certain statements made in this Form 8-K are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA).  A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will, shall and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance.  In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in our business, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings.  We claim the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements.  Risks and
 
1
uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive.  Risk Factors below as well as our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include additional factors that could impact LNCs business and financial performance, which are incorporated herein by reference.  Moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing and competitive environment.  New risk factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
3
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.  Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.  In addition, we disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
The following Exhibits are being furnished with this Form 8-K.
4
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  March 30, 2009
5
 
 
 
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Philadelphia, March 30, 2009  Lincoln Financial Group (NYSE: LNC) today announced that it has entered into a reinsurance agreement with Commonwealth Annuity and Life Insurance Company on an in-force block of universal life (UL) and variable universal life (VUL) insurance policies written by The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company and its predecessors. Commonwealth Annuity is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. The transaction will be effective as of March 31, 2009.
Under the terms of the agreement, Commonwealth Annuity will provide 55% quota share coinsurance and Lincoln will reinsure approximately $1.5 billion in estimated reserves to Commonwealth Annuity. Including the release of capital required to support the block of business, Lincoln estimates the transaction will provide approximately $240 million in statutory capital relief, resulting in a risk-based capital (RBC) ratio benefit of approximately 20 percentage points for The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company. The company expects the transaction to reduce annual consolidated net income by approximately $20 million. 
The agreement with Commonwealth Annuity represents the transfer of a closed block of life policies and does not include distribution or future new business value. The reinsurance transaction combined with other moves taken recently by the company, such as reducing the common stock dividend and restructuring the company to reduce expenses, demonstrates the companys ongoing commitment to managing capital effectively, particularly during this difficult market.
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in the Philadelphia region, the companies of Lincoln Financial Group
 
 
had assets under management of $178 billion as of December 31, 2008. Through its affiliated companies, Lincoln Financial Group offers: annuities; life, group life and disability insurance; 401(k) and 403(b) plans; savings plans; mutual funds; managed accounts; institutional investments; and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services. Affiliates also include: Delaware Investments, the marketing name for Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries; and Lincoln UK. For more information, including a copy of our most recent SEC reports containing our balance sheets, please visit .
www.LincolnFinancial.com
Certain statements made in this release and in other written or oral statements made by Lincoln or on Lincoln's behalf are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("PSLRA").  A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: "believe", "anticipate", "expect", "estimate", "project", "will", "shall" and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance.  In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in our businesses, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results, and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings.  Lincoln claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements.  Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Lincoln's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact Lincoln's business and financial performance. Moreover, Lincoln operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on Lincoln's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, Lincoln disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of the release.
 


