FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20090209172320.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 9, 2009, the registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2008, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The registrant's statistical supplement for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference, and a general account supplement as of December 31, 2008, is attached as Exhibit 99.3 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information, including exhibits attached hereto, furnished under this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
 
 
The following exhibits are being furnished with this Form 8-K.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 9, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 Lincoln Financial Group (NYSE:LNC) today reported a net loss of $506 million, or $1.98 per share, for the fourth quarter of 2008 and net income of $57 million, or $0.22 per diluted share, for the full year of 2008. The fourth quarter loss from operations was $122 million, or $0.48 per share, and full-year income from operations was $858 million, or $3.31 per diluted share.
Philadelphia, PA, February 9, 2009
($ in millions except per share data)
 
 
:
Significant Items Impacting Fourth Quarter 2008 Net Loss
 
 
 
intangibles primarily related to the company's media assets.
 
:
Significant Items Impacting Fourth Quarter 2008 Loss from Operations
 
 
Dennis R. Glass, President and CEO, said, "This quarter's disappointing results reflect the volatile financial markets and deteriorating economy. We have made prudent decisions regarding capital, liquidity and core earnings to maintain financial flexibility. In recognition of the market environment, we took steps during the fourth quarter and first quarter to reduce run-rate expenses by approximately $75 million and expect to achieve total annualized savings of $125-150 million by the end of 2009."
Glass added, "Our product solutions and distribution expertise provided a strong defense against the challenging external climate, and our retirement and insurance net flows were positive in the quarter and full year. Actions have been taken to reduce the risk profile of our variable annuity products, and as we look forward to 2009, we remain confident in our competitive position and our ability to adapt to an evolving landscape."
Capital and Liquidity
Lincoln Financial estimates a year-end risk based capital (RBC) position in the range of 380-390% for its principal insurance subsidiary, The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company.
Lincoln Financial maintains liquidity in its principal insurance subsidiaries in the form of cash and cash equivalents of approximately $3 billion. In addition, the insurance company maintains borrowing capacity from the Federal Home Loan Bank and has less than $400 million in securities out on loan with collateral invested in short-term, liquid investments. Lincoln Financial has a $500 million senior debt maturity in April 2009 and currently has sufficient internal resources to retire the debt. The company has diverse sources of liquidity, including unused revolving credit facilities of over $1 billion and an active commercial paper program. Earnings
 
and cash flow from insurance and non-insurance subsidiaries also support holding company liquidity needs.
As of December 31, 2008, the book value per share of Lincoln National Corporation common stock, including accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI), was $31.15, compared with $44.32 a year ago. Book value per share, excluding AOCI, was $42.09, compared with $43.47 a year ago.
Expense Initiatives
Lincoln initiated actions in the fourth quarter to reduce expenses across the company, focusing on workforce reductions and corporate-wide capital and discretionary spending. The company estimates these actions resulted in annualized pre-DAC and tax savings of approximately $75 million at an estimated cost of $15 million in severance and related expenses. Recognizing market conditions have continued to deteriorate in the first quarter, the company is reviewing its expense base and targeting an additional $50-75 million, pre DAC and tax, in annualized savings by the end of 2009.
Consolidated Retail Retirement and Insurance Deposits and Flows
Consolidated retail deposits into retirement and insurance products, which include individual annuities, defined contribution plans, individual life insurance, and other wealth accumulation and protection products, were $4.8 billion in the fourth quarter of 2008, compared to $6.3 billion a year ago and $5.4 billion in the third quarter of 2008. Consolidated retail net flows in retirement and insurance products were $1.4 billion versus $2.5 billion in the 2007 quarter and $1.7 billion in the sequential quarter. Retirement and insurance account balances were $118 billion as of December 31, 2008.
For the full year, consolidated retail retirement and insurance deposits were $21.8 billion, down 7% versus 2007, while net flows of $7.7 billion were down 4%.
 
Fourth Quarter 2008 Segment Results
Notable Items by Segment Affecting 4Q 2008 Income (Loss) from Operations**
($ in millions except per share data)
 
 
Retirement Solutions
Individual Annuities
The Individual Annuities segment reported a loss from operations of $172 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 versus income from operations of $119 million in the year-ago period. The current quarter's results included a net negative impact of approximately $247 million, after tax, primarily attributable to DAC unlocking related to equity market depreciation. Favorable tax-related items in the 2008 quarter were partially offset by an increase in guaranteed minimum death benefit reserves. Losses in the alternative investment portfolio impacted the segment's earnings by approximately $8 million, after DAC and tax, in the current quarter.
In the quarter, gross deposits were $2.3 billion, down 40% from the year-ago period. Net flows for the segment were a positive $376 million, down from $1.8 billion in the 2007 quarter, driven by the decline in deposits. Variable annuity product deposits were $1.9 billion, reflecting overall weakness in the industry, and net flows of $590 million remained positive, with outflows in line with the prior three quarters. Average variable annuity account balances were down $14.0 billion sequentially in the 2008 quarter.
For the full year, gross deposits of $11.7 billion were down 13% and net flows of $4.1 billion were down 18% with an improvement in outflows versus 2007.
Defined Contribution
Defined Contribution reported a loss from operations of $1 million, versus income from operations of $43 million for the same period a year ago. The fourth quarter of 2008 included a net negative impact of approximately $26 million, after tax, primarily attributable to DAC
 
unlocking related to equity market depreciation. Favorable tax-related items in the 2008 quarter were partially offset by an increase in guaranteed minimum death benefit reserves. Losses in the alternative investment portfolio impacted the segment's earnings by approximately $3 million, after DAC and tax, in the current quarter.
In the quarter, overall deposits of $1.2 billion were down 2% versus the 2007 quarter. Total net flows were $171 million, reflecting an improvement in persistency versus prior-year and sequential periods. In the mid-to-large market, deposits of $729 million and net flows of $538 million were up 20% and 36%, respectively, compared to the 2007 quarter. In the micro-to-small market, deposits of $255 million were down from $365 million in 2007 and net outflows of $56 million improved versus the year-ago period. In the current quarter, average variable account balances were down sequentially $5.7 billion.
For the full year, overall defined contribution deposits were flat with the prior year, while net flows more than doubled to almost $800 million.
Insurance Solutions
Life Insurance
Life Insurance income from operations was $83 million in the fourth quarter of 2008, compared to $171 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. The current quarter's results were negatively impacted by approximately $51 million, after tax, primarily attributable to prospective DAC unlocking related to variable universal life insurance, unfavorable mortality and retrospective DAC unlocking related to negative returns in the alternative investment portfolio. Losses in the alternative investment portfolio impacted the segment's earnings by approximately $21 million, after DAC and tax, in the 2008 quarter.
Life insurance sales, reported as paid annualized premiums, were $211 million in the fourth quarter, down 5% from the year-ago quarter, but up 11% over the third quarter of 2008.
For the full year, life insurance sales were $741 million, compared to $837 million last year. Life insurance in force of $545 billion, grew 2% in 2008, driven by a 4% increase in the interest-sensitive in force.
 
Group Protection
For the fourth quarter, Group Protection's income from operations was $18 million, versus $28 million in the prior-year period. The 2008 quarter's results included unfavorable expenses of approximately $3 million, after tax. The non-medical loss ratio in the current period was 72.8% versus 70.7% in the 2007 quarter, and remained within the expected range of 71-74%. Losses in the alternative investment portfolio impacted the segment's earnings by approximately $3 million, after DAC and tax, in the current quarter.
Net earned premiums were $383 million in the fourth quarter, up 10% over the year-ago period, driven by continued strong persistency. Annualized sales were $129 million, down 10% from a record 2007 quarter.
Full-year net earned premiums were up 10% to $1.5 billion. Group Protection finished the year strong with record annualized sales in December and reported full-year results of $316 million, down 3% compared to a record 2007.
Investment Management
The Investment Management segment reported a loss from operations of $4 million in the fourth quarter of 2008, compared to income from operations of $27 million in the prior-year period. Fourth quarter 2008 earnings continued to be impacted by deteriorating equity markets and economic conditions. The current quarter included negative returns on seed capital which were partially offset by favorable expense items.
Total deposits for the quarter were $3.8 billion, compared to $5.8 billion a year ago and $4.0 billion in the third quarter of 2008. Negative net flows of $3.3 billion compared to a negative $1.0 billion in the prior-year period, but were flat with the third quarter of 2008. In the current quarter, assets under management declined sequentially $12.1 billion, primarily due to equity markets and negative net flows.
Retail mutual fund performance in the fourth quarter improved for all time periods and 68% of the funds beat their Lipper peer group average in the 1-year, 5-year, and 10-year time horizons as of December 31, 2008.
 
Lincoln UK
For the fourth quarter, the UK segment's income from operations was $9 million, compared to $13 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. The current period benefited from a reserve release and reflected the impact of an unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate.
Other Operations
The operating loss in Other Operations was $55 million in the quarter, versus $59 million in the prior-year quarter. The 2008 quarter included net negative items of approximately $14 million, after tax, primarily related to unfavorable expenses. The 2007 quarter included approximately $18 million, after tax, of unfavorable expense items primarily related to non-qualified benefit plan changes. Merger-related expenses were $5 million, after tax, in the current quarter versus $18 million in the prior-year period.
Realized and Unrealized Gains and Losses on Investments
Total gross realized losses on general account investments were $568 million, pre DAC and tax, including losses of $223 million related to residential mortgage backed securities and $105 million related to financial institutions. In addition, the company realized a non-cash impairment of $131 million, pre tax, related to Bank of America common stock, which does not affect statutory capital. The company reported a net unrealized loss position for available-for-sale securities, including unrealized gains, of $2.7 billion, after DAC and tax, at the end of the fourth quarter.
This press release may contain statements that are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially, especially given the current economic and credit conditions. Please see the Forward-Looking Statements  Cautionary Language that follow for additional factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations.
The table attached to this release defines and reconciles income from operations, ROE, and book value per share excluding AOCI, non-GAAP measures, to net income, ROE, and book value per share including AOCI calculated in accordance with GAAP.
 
Lincoln Financial Group will discuss the company's fourth quarter results with investors in a conference call beginning at 11:00 a.m. (ET) on Tuesday, February 10, 2009. Interested persons are invited to listen through the internet. Please go to at least fifteen minutes prior to the event to register, download and install any necessary streaming media software. Interested persons may also listen to the call by dialing the following numbers:
www.LincolnFinancial.com/webcast
 
The company will also post its fourth quarter 2008 statistical supplement and a general account supplement on its Web site, .
www.LincolnFinancial.com/investor
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in the Philadelphia region, the companies of Lincoln Financial Group had assets under management of $178 billion as of December 31, 2008. Through its affiliated companies, Lincoln Financial Group offers: annuities; life, group life and disability insurance; 401(k) and 403(b) plans; savings plans; mutual funds; managed accounts; institutional investments; and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services. Affiliates also include: Delaware Investments, the marketing name for Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries; and Lincoln UK. For more information, including a copy of our most recent SEC reports containing our balance sheets, please visit .
www.LincolnFinancial.com
 
Definition of Income (Loss) from Operations and ROE
Income (loss) from operations and ROE, as used in the earnings release, are non-GAAP financial measures and are not substitutes for net income (loss) and ROE, calculated using GAAP measures. Income (loss) from operations represents after-tax results excluding, as applicable, realized gains and losses associated with the following: sale or disposal of securities; impairments of securities; change in the fair value of embedded derivatives within certain reinsurance arrangements and the change in the fair value of related trading securities; change in the fair value of the embedded derivatives of our guaranteed living benefits within our variable annuities net of the change in the fair value of the derivatives we own to hedge the changes in the embedded derivative; net difference between the benefit ratio unlocking
 
of SOP 03-1 reserves on our guaranteed death benefit riders within our variable annuities and the change in the fair value of the derivatives excluding our expected cost of the hedging instruments; changes in the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities related to index call options we may purchase in the future to hedge contract holder index allocations applicable to future reset periods for our indexed annuity products as required under SFAS 133 and SFAS 157, income (loss) from the initial adoption of changes in accounting principles; income (loss) from reserve changes (net of related amortization) on business sold through reinsurance; losses on early retirement of debt, including subordinated debt; losses from the impairment of intangible assets and income (loss) from discontinued operations.
The earnings used to calculate ROE, as used in the earnings release, are income (loss) from operations. Income (loss) from operations is an internal measure used by the company in the management of its operations. Management believes that this performance measure explains the results of the company's ongoing businesses in a manner that allows for a better understanding of the underlying trends in the company's current business because the excluded items are unpredictable and not necessarily indicative of current operating fundamentals or future performance of the business segments, and, in most instances, decisions regarding these items do not necessarily relate to the operations of the individual segments.
($ in millions, except per share data)
 
Definition of Book Value Per Share Excluding AOCI
Book value per share excluding AOCI is calculated based upon a non-GAAP financial measure. It is calculated by dividing (a) stockholders' equity excluding AOCI, by (b) common shares outstanding. Management provides book value per share excluding AOCI to enable investors to analyze the amount of our net worth that is primarily attributable to our business operations. Management believes book value per share excluding AOCI is useful to investors because it eliminates the effect of items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period, primarily due to the affect of capital market conditions on our available-for-sale securities. Book value per share is the most directly comparable GAAP
 
measure. A reconciliation of book value per share to book value per share excluding AOCI as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 is set forth below.
 
($ in millions, except per share data)
 
Certain statements made in this release and in other written or oral statements made by Lincoln or on Lincoln's behalf are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("PSLRA"). A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: "believe", "anticipate", "expect", "estimate", "project", "will", "shall" and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating
 
to future actions, trends in our businesses, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results, and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings. Lincoln claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Lincoln's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact Lincoln's business and financial performance. Moreover, Lincoln operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on Lincoln's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, Lincoln disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of the release.
 

The financial data in this document is dated February 9, 2009 and has not been updated since that date. LNC does not intend to update this document.
 
 
 
Investor inquiries may be directed to:
Jim Sjoreen, Vice President, Investor Relations
Email: Jim.Sjoreen@lfg.com
Voice: (484) 583-1420
Fax: (484) 593-3962
Note: This list is provided for informational purposes only. LFG does not endorse the analyses, conclusions, or recommendations contained in any report issued by these or any other analysts.
**Statistical data will be available immediately after the release of earnings for each quarter through LNC's Investor Relations website:        
http://www.LincolnFinancial.com/investor
 
Definitions and Presentation
"Income (loss) from operations," "operating revenues" and "return on capital" are non-GAAP financial measures and do not replace GAAP revenues, net income (loss) and return on stockholders' equity. Detailed reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure are included in this statistical supplement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Income (loss) from operations, operating revenues and return on capital are financial measures we use to evaluate and assess our results. Our management and Board of Directors believe that these performance measures explain the results of our ongoing businesses in a manner that allows for a better understanding of the underlying trends in our current business because the excluded items are unpredictable and not necessarily indicative of current operating fundamentals or future performance of the business segments, and, in most instances, decisions regarding these items do not necessarily relate to the operations of the individual segments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our roll forwards of deferred acquisition costs ("DAC") and value of business acquired ("VOBA"), deferred sales inducements ("DSI") and deferred front-end loads ("DFEL") disclose the net impact of prospective and retrospective unlocking on amortization for these accounts. This information helps explain a source of volatility in amortization.
 
 
In the fourth quarter of 2008, we updated our RTM process for equity market performance, which resulted in an unfavorable $223 million, after-tax, impact to income (loss) from continuing operations. Details underlying the decrease were as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
Book value per share excluding accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI") is calculated based upon a non-GAAP financial measure. It is calculated by dividing (a) stockholders' equity excluding AOCI, by (b) common shares outstanding. We provide book value per share excluding AOCI to enable investors to analyze the amount of our net worth that is primarily attributable to our business operations. We believe book value per share excluding AOCI is useful to investors because it eliminates the effect of items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period, primarily based on changes in interest rates. Book value per share is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.
Pre-tax operating margin is calculated as income (loss) from operations before federal income taxes divided by operating revenues.
After-tax operating margin is calculated as income (loss) from operations divided by operating revenues.
During the fourth quarter of 2007, we entered into definitive agreements to sell our television broadcasting, Charlotte radio and sports programming businesses. The divestiture of the sports programming business closed on November 30, 2007, the Charlotte radio station business closed on January 31, 2008 and the television broadcasting closed on March 31, 2008. Accordingly, in the periods prior to the closings, the assets and liabilities of these businesses not sold have been reclassified as held-for-sale for all periods presented, and are reported within other assets and other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The results of operations of these businesses have been reclassified into income (loss) from discontinued operations for all periods presented on the Financial Highlights, Results Summary and Consolidated Statements of Income pages.
Inter-segment transfer refers to a transfer from Retirement Solutions - Annuities to Retirement Solutions - Defined Contribution.
Reclassifications
Subsequent to the second quarter of 2008, we announced the realignment of our segments under our former Individual Markets and Employer Markets operating businesses into two new operating businesses - Retirement Solutions and Insurance Solutions. In addition to the realignment, the results of our Executive Benefits business are no longer reported separately, but are included in our Life Insurance segment. We have restated all periods presented to conform to the new alignment of our businesses and segments. We view the changes to the existing segments as immaterial.
 
 
 
 
 
Operational Data by Segment
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
This document is dated February 9, 2009. The data contained in this document may not be accurate after such date and LNC does not undertake to update or keep it accurate after such date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


