FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20091028165732.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 28, 2009, the registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2009, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The registrants statistical supplement for the quarter ended September 30, 2009, is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference, and a general account supplement as of September 30, 2009, is attached as Exhibit 99.3 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information, including exhibits attached hereto, furnished under this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are being furnished with this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION
 
By           
/s/ Douglas N. Miller
Name:  Douglas N. Miller
Title:    Vice President and
            
Chief Accounting Officer
 
Date:  October 28, 2009
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

                         NEWS RELEASE
 Lincoln Financial Group (NYSE:LNC) today reported net income of $153 million, or $0.44 per diluted share available to common stockholders, for the third quarter of 2009, versus $148 million, or $0.58 per diluted share in the prior-year quarter. The 2009 quarter included a positive adjustment of $55 million, after tax, or $0.18 per diluted share, related to the previously announced sale of Lincoln National (UK) plc; realized investment losses of $42 million, after tax, or $0.14 per diluted share; and a loss of $151 million, after tax, or $0.49 per diluted share, primarily attributable to the non-performance risk factor on the variable annuity hedge program.
Philadelphia, PA, October 28, 2009
Income from operations for the third quarter of 2009 was $276 million, or $0.84 per diluted share available to common stockholders, compared to $298 million, or $1.16 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2008. The current period reflects lower average variable account values compared to a year ago and a modest loss on alternative investments. The companys annual comprehensive review of actuarial assumptions had little impact on income from operations in the 2009 quarter.
Income from operations and production results in the third quarter of 2009 exclude Lincoln UK and Delaware Investments, which are now included in discontinued operations for the current period and all periods presented. The current quarters earnings available to common stockholders per share reflect the accrued dividend and accretion of discount on the series B preferred stock, as well as an increase in average common shares outstanding primarily related to the companys recent equity issuance.
:
Third Quarter 2009 Highlights
Dennis R. Glass, president and CEO, said, Lincoln Financial delivered another quarter of solid fundamentals with sequential growth in income from operations, book value per share, deposits and net flows. The strategic actions taken over the last ten months have reaffirmed Lincolns position as a strong competitor. We have strengthened our capital position, sharpened our focus on the core insurance and retirement businesses, reinforced our distribution relationships, and updated our product portfolios to better align consumer value, risk management and profitability in todays environment. As the economy and consumer confidence begin to recover, we are well-positioned to drive profitable growth and long-term value for our stakeholders.
Third Quarter 2009  Segment Results
Retirement Solutions
Individual Annuities
The Individual Annuities segment reported income from operations of $95 million in the third quarter of 2009 versus $131 million in the year-ago period, reflecting, in part, lower average variable account balances compared to the prior year. The 2009 quarter included a net positive impact of approximately $15 million, after tax, primarily attributable to positive retrospective DAC unlocking from equity market appreciation. The prior-year period included net positive items of approximately $13 million, after tax, primarily attributable to tax-related items.
Gross annuity deposits were $3.1 billion, up 5% from the prior year and 18% sequentially. Net flows were $1.6 billion, up 70% versus the 2008 quarter and 53% versus the second quarter.
 
Broad distribution relationships, wholesaler productivity improvements and a diversified fixed and variable product portfolio positively impacted results. Fixed and indexed annuity product deposits of $1.3 billion more than doubled year-over-year and were up 40% sequentially, driving continued improvement in net flows for both periods. Variable annuity product deposits of $1.8 billion and net flows of $747 million were up sequentially 6% and 15%, respectively, but down year-over-year due to market conditions.
Defined Contribution
Defined Contribution reported income from operations of $43 million, versus $42 million for the same period a year ago. The 2009 quarter included a net positive impact of approximately $5 million, after tax, primarily attributable to positive prospective DAC unlocking.
Gross deposits of $1.1 billion were down 17% versus prior year. Total net flows were $144 million, up 55% compared to the year-ago quarter, reflecting continued strong persistency.
Insurance Solutions
Life Insurance
Life Insurance income from operations was $137 million, equal to the third quarter of 2008. The life insurance segments results in 2009 reflect capital-related reinsurance transactions and included a net negative impact of approximately $6 million, after tax, primarily attributable to negative prospective DAC unlocking which was partially offset by tax-related items. The 2009 quarter also included a loss on alternative investments of $5 million, after tax, versus alternative investment income of $10 million, after tax, in 2008. The prior periods results included a net negative impact of approximately $30 million, after tax, primarily related to DAC unlocking.
Life insurance sales were $146 million compared to $190 million in the 2008 period and $124 million in the second quarter of 2009. , a linked-benefit universal life insurance policy with a long term care rider, and term life insurance sales increased over 60% year-over-year, demonstrating the strength of the diversified product portfolio.
MoneyGuard
Group Protection
For the third quarter, Group Protections income from operations was $35 million, compared to $27 million in the prior-year period. The non-medical loss ratio in the current period was 68%, driven by favorable experience in group disability and life.
Net earned premiums were $380 million in the third quarter, up 2% over the year-ago period, reflecting lower premium persistency due to workforce and wage reductions within small businesses. Annualized sales of $80 million increased 17% year-over-year with voluntary sales representing 37% in the quarter.
Other Operations
The operating loss in Other Operations was $33 million in the quarter, versus $40 million in the prior-year quarter.
Alternative Investment Income
Income from operations in the third quarter of 2009 included a loss on alternative investments of $1 million, after tax, compared to income of $12 million, after tax, in the 2008 period. In the current quarter, the Life Insurance segment reported a loss on alternative investments of $5 million, which was partially offset by alternative investment income of $1 million in the Defined Contribution segment, $2 million in the Individual Annuities segment, and $1 million in the Other Operations segment.
Realized Gains and Losses
Total gross realized losses on general account investments were $174 million, pre DAC and tax, primarily related to residential mortgage backed securities and financial institutions. The variable annuity hedge program performed as expected in the quarter. The after-DAC and tax loss of $151 million was primarily driven by the non-performance risk factor which accounted for $138 million of the loss.
Book Value
As of September 30, 2009, the book value per share of common stock, including accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI), was $38.56 compared to $37.11 a year ago. Book value per share, excluding AOCI, was $39.29, compared to $44.18 a year ago.
 
This press release may contain statements that are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially, especially given the current economic and credit conditions. Please see the Forward-Looking Statements  Cautionary Language that follow for additional factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. 
The tables attached to this release define and reconcile income from operations, ROE, and book value per share excluding AOCI, non-GAAP measures, to net income, ROE, and book value per share including AOCI calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Lincoln Financial Group will discuss the companys third quarter results with investors in a conference call beginning at 11:00 a.m. (ET) on Thursday, October 29, 2009. Interested persons are invited to listen through the internet. Please go to at least fifteen minutes prior to the event to register, download and install any necessary streaming media software. Interested persons may also listen to the call by dialing the following numbers:
www.LincolnFinancial.com/webcast
- Dial:      (888) 715-1391 (Domestic)
(913) 312-6694  (International)
- Ask for the Lincoln National Conference Call.
The company will also post its third quarter 2009 statistical supplement and a general account supplement on its Web site, .
www.LincolnFinancial.com/investor
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in the Philadelphia region, the operating companies of Lincoln Financial Group had assets under management of $137 billion as of September 30, 2009. Through its affiliated companies, Lincoln Financial Group offers: annuities; life, group life and disability insurance; 401(k) and 403(b) plans; savings plans; mutual funds; managed accounts; institutional investments; and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services. Affiliates also include: Delaware Investments, the marketing name for Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries. For more information, including a copy of our most recent SEC reports containing our balance sheets, please visit .
www.LincolnFinancial.com
Contacts:        Jim Sjoreen                                                                   Laurel OBrien
484 583-1420                                                                   484 583-1735
Investor Relations                                                        Media Relations
Investorrelations@LFG.com                                       mediarelations@LFG.com
Definition of Income (Loss) from Operations and ROE
Income (loss) from operations and ROE, as used in the earnings release, are non-GAAP financial measures and are not substitutes for net income (loss) and ROE, calculated using GAAP measures.  Income (loss) from operations represents after-tax results excluding, as applicable, realized gains and losses associated with the following: sale or disposal of securities; impairments of securities; change in the fair value of embedded derivatives within certain reinsurance arrangements and the change in the fair value of related trading securities; change in the guaranteed living benefits embedded derivative reserves within our variable annuities net of the change in the fair value of the derivatives we own to hedge the changes in the embedded derivative reserves, the net of which is referred to as GLB net derivatives results; net difference between the benefit ratio reserves on our guaranteed death benefit riders within our variable annuities and the change in the fair value of the derivatives excluding our expected cost of the hedging instruments; and changes in the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities related to index call options we may purchase in the future to hedge contract holder index allocations applicable to future reset periods for our indexed annuity products, income (loss) from the initial adoption of changes in accounting standards, income (loss) from reserve changes (net of related amortization) on business sold through reinsurance, losses on early retirement of debt, including subordinated debt, losses from the impairment of intangible assets and income (loss) from discontinued operations.
The earnings used to calculate ROE, as used in the earnings release, are income (loss) from operations.  Income (loss) from operations is an internal measure used by the company in the management of its operations.  Management believes that this performance measure explains the results of the company's ongoing businesses in a manner that allows for a better understanding of the underlying trends in the company's current business because the excluded items are unpredictable and not necessarily indicative of current operating fundamentals or future performance of the business segments, and, in most instances, decisions regarding these items do not necessarily relate to the operations of the individual segments.
Definition of Book Value Per Share Excluding AOCI
Book value per share excluding AOCI is calculated based upon a non-GAAP financial measure. It is calculated by dividing (a) stockholders' equity excluding AOCI, by (b) common shares outstanding. Management provides book value per share excluding AOCI to enable investors to analyze the amount of our net worth that is primarily attributable to our business operations. Management believes book value per share excluding AOCI is useful to investors because it eliminates the effect of items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period, primarily based on changes in interest rates.  Book value per share is the most directly comparable GAAP measure. A reconciliation of book value per share to book value per share excluding AOCI as of September 30, 2009 and 2008 is set forth below.
Certain statements made in this press release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("PSLRA").  A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: "believe", "anticipate", "expect", "estimate", "project", "will", "shall" and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance.  In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in our businesses, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results, and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings.  Lincoln claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements.  Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Lincoln's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact Lincoln's business and financial performance. Moreover, Lincoln operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on Lincoln's business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, Lincoln disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this release.


