FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20090615185809.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This amendment is being filed solely to correct the amount of the expected loss to be recorded in connection with this transaction as provided for in Item 8.01. Except for correcting this information, no other information in our Form 8-K dated June 15, 2009 has been amended or updated.
 
On June 15, 2009, we entered into a Share Purchase Agreement with SLF of Canada UK Limited, or "SLF," and Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada, or "Sun Life," as the guarantor, pursuant to which we agreed to sell to SLF all of the outstanding capital stock of Lincoln National (UK) plc, our subsidiary, or "Lincoln UK," which is primarily focused on providing life and retirement income products in the United Kingdom. Upon completion of the foregoing transaction, we expect to receive estimated proceeds in the range of $280-$300 million, net of tax, subject to certain adjustments, and foreign currency fluctuations and to record a loss under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles in the range of approximately $170 million to $190 million.
SLF and we have each made customary representations, warranties and covenants, as applicable, in the Share Purchase Agreement. The completion of the transaction contemplated by the Share Purchase Agreement is subject to regulatory approvals, including the approval of the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions of Canada and Financial Services Authority of the United Kingdom, and the satisfaction of other customary conditions, some of which are beyond our control, and no assurance can be given that such completion will occur. The transaction contemplates that we have the opportunity until December 2009 to retain Lincoln UK's pension plan assets and liabilities. If we do not retain the pension plan assets and liabilities, a purchase price adjustment will result. Sun Life has agreed to guarantee all of the obligations of SLF under the Share Purchase Agreement and related documents.
On June 15, 2009, we issued a press release announcing the foregoing transaction. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Certain statements made in this Form 8-K and in other written or oral statements made by us or on our behalf are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("PSLRA"). A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "estimate," "project," "will," "shall" and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in our business, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings. We claim the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include additional factors that could impact our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, we disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 15, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
PHILADELPHIA, June 15, 2009  Lincoln Financial Group (NYSE: LNC) today announced that it has signed a definitive stock purchase agreement to sell Lincoln National (UK) plc in order to shift capital to core U.S. businesses. SLF of Canada UK Limited will acquire Lincoln UK for an estimated 195 million (GBP) in cash. The transaction is expected to close on or around September 30, 2009, subject to customary closing conditions.
Lincoln UK is a wholly owned subsidiary of Lincoln Financial, primarily focused on providing life and retirement income products in the UK.
Estimated proceeds of $280-$300 million (USD), net of tax, and subject to foreign currency fluctuations, from the transaction are expected to be used primarily for general corporate purposes. Final proceeds will be subject to potential purchase price adjustments related to market and business performance between signing and closing, as well as a potential adjustment related to the Lincoln UK pension plan. For more information about this sale, please see Lincoln's Form 8-K filed with Securities and Exchange Commission today.
Morgan Stanley acted as financial advisor to Lincoln Financial Group.
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in the Philadelphia region, the companies of Lincoln Financial Group had assets under management of $171 billion as of March 31, 2009. Through its affiliated companies, Lincoln Financial Group offers: annuities; life, group life and disability insurance; 401(k) and 403(b) plans; savings plans; mutual funds; managed accounts; institutional investments; and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services. Affiliates also include: Delaware Investments, the marketing name for Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries; and Lincoln UK. For more information, including a copy of our most recent SEC reports containing our balance sheets, please visit www.LincolnFinancial.com.
 
Certain statements made in this release and in other written or oral statements made by us or on our behalf are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("PSLRA"). A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: "believe," "anticipate," "expect," "estimate," "project," "will," "shall" and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in our business, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings. We claim the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include additional factors that could impact our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, we disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of the release.


