FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20100728161340.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
July 28, 2010
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 28, 2010, the registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2010, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The registrants statistical supplement for the quarter ended June 30, 2010, is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference, and a general account supplement as of June 30, 2010, is attached as Exhibit 99.3 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information, including exhibits attached hereto, furnished under this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are being furnished with this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION
 
By           
/s/ Douglas N. Miller
Name:     Douglas N. Miller
Title:       Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer
 
 
Date:  July 28, 2010
 
 
 

                         NEWS RELEASE
 Lincoln Financial Group (NYSE:LNC) today reported net income for the second quarter of 2010 of $255 million, or $0.33 of net income per diluted share available to common stockholders, compared to a net loss in the second quarter of 2009 of $161 million, or $0.62 per diluted share.  Net income available to common stockholders in the quarter of $104 million included the write-off of unamortized discount on preferred stock of $131 million associated with the repurchase of all of the preferred shares issued to the U.S. Treasury under its Capital Purchase Program (CPP) along with the accrued dividend and accretion of discount on the preferred stock of $18.3 million in the quarter.
Philadelphia, PA, July 28, 2010
Earnings per share available to common shareholders is net of preferred dividends and the accretion of discount related to preferred shares.   (See the reconciliation of net income to net income available to common stockholders in the Digest of Earnings attached to this release.)
1
The per share calculation for the loss per share uses basic shares.
2
The second quarter income from operations was $290 million, or $0.86 per diluted share available to common stockholders, compared to $207 million, or $0.79 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2009.  The quarter-over-quarter increase in income from operations was driven by higher asset-based revenues and net investment income.
 
1
 
Income from Operations in the quarter included offsetting notable items including favorable DAC amortization in individual annuities and unfavorable loss ratios in group protection.
Dennis R. Glass, president and CEO, said, Continued strength in our business fundamentals delivered another quarter of solid top and bottom line results.  Strong sales across all segments combined with good persistency drove growth in net flows, the result of distribution-related productivity gains and shelf space expansion and comprehensive product offerings.
Given the resilience of our operating model and the success of our capital actions, we are moving into the second half of the year with the financial strength and flexibility to support our growth strategies. I am confident that Lincoln today is well-positioned to deliver on the strong demand for insurance and retirement solutions.
 
:
Second Quarter 2010 Operating Highlights
Second Quarter 2010  Segment Results
Retirement Solutions
Individual Annuities
The Individual Annuities segment reported income from operations of $116 million in the second quarter of 2010 versus income from operations of $65 million in the year-ago period, reflecting a 24% increase in the average annuity account values.
 
2
 
Gross annuity deposits of $2.8 billion and net flows of $1.2 billion, were up 8% and 11%, respectively, versus the prior year.  Variable annuity deposits of $2.2 billion and net flows of almost $0.9 billion were up 27% and 34%, respectively, over the prior-year quarter reflecting improved wholesaler productivity and shelf space expansion.
Defined Contribution
Defined Contribution reported income from operations of $36 million, versus income from operations of $28 million for the same period a year ago, reflecting a 19% increase in the average account values.
Gross deposits of $1.4 billion were up 22% versus the prior-year quarter.  Total net flows in the current quarter were $182 million as compared to $256 million in the 2009 quarter.
Insurance Solutions
Life Insurance
Life Insurance income from operations was $151 million, compared to $133 million in the second quarter of 2009.  The prior year quarters results included a loss on alternative investments.
Life insurance sales of $140 million increased 13% over the prior-year quarter reflecting strong double-digit sales increases of and term life insurance.   sales reflect our market leading position and expansion of wholesaling support.  Universal life sales of $78 million were down 8% from the prior-year quarter reflecting the change in consumer preferences and economic conditions.
MoneyGuard
MoneyGuard
Group Protection
For the second quarter, Group Protections income from operations was $23 million, compared to $34 million in the prior-year period.  The non-medical loss ratio was 76% in the current quarter, compared to 68% in the second quarter of 2009 with the change primarily attributable to an increase in the disability product line.
Non-medical net earned premiums were $383 million in the second quarter, up 8% over the year-ago period.  Annualized sales of $65 million increased 10% year-over-year.
 
3
 
Other Operations
The operating loss in Other Operations was $36 million in the quarter, versus a loss of $52 million in the prior-year quarter.  A charge of approximately $19 million, after tax, related to expense-save initiatives was included in the 2009 quarters results.
Alternative Investment Income
Income from operations in the second quarter of 2010 included alternative investment income of $11 million, after DAC, after tax, compared to a loss of $29 million in the year-ago quarter.  The company's alternative investment portfolio, of approximately $700 million of book value, performed consistent with our long-term return expectations.
Realized Gains and Losses
Total gross realized losses from the sale and impairment of general account investments in the quarter were $37 million, pre tax, as compared to $236 million in the prior-year quarter and $109 million in the first quarter of 2010.
Realized gains and losses also includes the change in value of certain securities subject to mark-to-market accounting including credit linked notes, credit default swaps, trading securities and other derivatives.  The net change in the value of these securities in the quarter was a loss of $46 million, pre tax, versus a loss of $13 million in the year-ago quarter.  2010 results reflect the companys recent adoption of Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2009-17, Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities (ASU 2009-17) effective January 1, 2010.
Unrealized Gains and Losses
The company reported a net unrealized gain of approximately $3 billion, pre tax, on its available-for-sale securities at June 30, 2010.  This compares to a net unrealized loss of $3.7 billion at June 30, 2009.
Capital
During the quarter, the company completed a series of capital-related transactions:
 
4
 
 
 
Book Value
As of June 30, 2010, the book value per share of common stock, including accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI), was $39.89 compared to $30.02 a year ago. Book value per share, excluding AOCI, was $36.93, compared to $35.67 a year ago.
This press release may contain statements that are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially, especially given the current economic and credit conditions. Please see the Forward-Looking Statements  Cautionary Language that follow for additional factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. 
The tables attached to this release define and reconcile income from operations, return on equity (ROE), and book value per share excluding AOCI, non-GAAP measures, to net income, ROE, and book value per share including AOCI calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Lincoln Financial Group will discuss the companys second quarter results with investors in a conference call beginning at 11:00 a.m. (ET) on Thursday, July 29, 2010. Interested persons are invited to listen through the internet. Please go to at least fifteen minutes prior to the event to register, download and install any necessary streaming media software. Interested persons may also listen to the call by dialing the following numbers:
www.LincolnFinancial.com/webcast
Dial:        (877) 776-4049 (Domestic)
(914) 495-8602 (International)
- Ask for the Lincoln National Conference Call.
 
5
 
The company will also post its second quarter 2010 statistical supplement and a general account supplement on its Web site, .
www.LincolnFinancial.com/earnings
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in the Philadelphia region, the companies of Lincoln Financial Group had assets under management of $140 billion as of June 30, 2010. Through its affiliated companies, Lincoln Financial Group offers: annuities; life, group life and disability insurance; 401(k) and 403(b) plans; savings plans; and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services. For more information, including a copy of our most recent SEC reports containing our balance sheets, please visit .
www.LincolnFinancial.com
Contacts:       Jim Sjoreen                                                                            Laurel OBrien
484 583-1420                                                                          484 583-1735
Investor Relations                                                               Media Relations
Investorrelations@LFG.com                                              mediarelations@LFG.com
 
6
 
 
Definition of Income (Loss) from Operations and ROE
Income (loss) from operations and ROE, as used in the earnings release, are non-GAAP financial measures and are not substitutes for net income (loss) and ROE, calculated using GAAP measures.  We exclude the after-tax effects of the following items from GAAP net income (loss) to arrive at income (loss) from operations: realized gains and losses associated with the following ("excluded realized gain (loss)"): sale or disposal of securities; impairments of securities; change in the fair value of derivative investments; embedded derivatives within certain reinsurance arrangements;  trading securities; change in the fair value of the derivatives we own to hedge our guaranteed death benefit ("GDB") riders within our variable annuities, which is referred to as "GDB derivatives results"; change in the fair value of the embedded derivatives of our guaranteed living benefit (GLB) riders with in our variable annuities accounted for under the Derivatives and Hedging and the Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topics of the FASB ASC (embedded derivative reserves), net of the change in the fair value of the derivatives we own to hedge the changes in the embedded derivative reserves, the net of which is referred to as GLB net derivative results; and changes in the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities related to index call options we may purchase in the future to hedge contract holder index allocations applicable to future reset periods for our indexed annuity products accounted for under the Derivatives and Hedging and the Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topics of the FASB ASC (indexed annuity forward-starting option); change in reserves accounted for under the Financial Services - Insurance - Claim Costs and Liabilities for Future Policy Benefits Subtopic of the FASB ASC resulting from benefit ratio unlocking on our GDB and GLB rider s ("benefit ratio unlocking"); income (loss) from the initial adoption of new accounting standards; income (loss) from reserve changes (net of related amortization) on business sold through reinsurance; gain (loss) on early extinguishment of debt; losses from the impairment of intangible assets; and income (loss) from discontinued operations.
The earnings used to calculate ROE, as used in the earnings release, are income (loss) from operations.  Income (loss) from operations is an internal measure used by the company in the management of its operations.  Management believes that this performance measure explains the results of the company's ongoing businesses in a manner that allows for a better understanding of the underlying trends in the company's current business because the excluded items are unpredictable and not necessarily indicative of current operating fundamentals or future performance of the business segments, and, in most instances, decisions regarding these items do not necessarily relate to the operations of the individual segments.
The company uses its prevailing corporate federal income tax rate of 35% while taking into account any permanent differences for events recognized differently in its financial statements and federal income tax returns when reconciling non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measure.
 
7
 
Lincoln National Corporation
 
 
8
 
Definition of Book Value Per Share Excluding AOCI
Book value per share excluding AOCI is calculated based upon a non-GAAP financial measure. It is calculated by dividing (a) stockholders' equity excluding AOCI by (b) common shares outstanding, assuming conversion of Series A preferred shares. We provide book value per share excluding AOCI to enable investors to analyze the amount of our net worth that is primarily attributable to our business operations. Management believes book value per share excluding AOCI is useful to investors because it eliminates the effect of items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period, primarily based on changes in interest rates.  Book value per share is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  A reconciliation of book value per share to book value per share excluding AOCI as of June 30, 2010 and 2009 is set forth be low.
 
9
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
Forward Looking Statements  Cautionary Language
 
 
Certain statements made in this press release and in other written or oral statements made by Lincoln, or we, us, or our,  or on Lincoln's behalf are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("PSLRA"). A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: "believe", "anticipate", "expect", "estimate", "project", "will", "shall" and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in Lincoln's busin esses, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results, and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings. Lincoln claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
 
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
 
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, Lincoln disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this release.
 
11
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


