FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20101217143713.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
       (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
      (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Director; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On December 16, 2010, Lincoln National Corporation (the Company or we) announced that Randal J. Freitag was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company effective January 1, 2011.  As previously announced, upon effectiveness of Mr. Freitags appointment, the companys current Chief Financial Officer, Frederick J. Crawford, will assume the role of Executive Vice President, Corporate Development and Investments.  A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Freitags appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Mr. Freitag, 48, has been with the Company since 1995, and most recently served as Senior Vice President and Chief Risk Officer from 2007.  Mr. Freitag also served as the Companys Treasurer from 2007 to 2010.  Prior to serving in that role, Mr. Freitag was the Senior Vice President of product risk and profitability for the individual life and annuities businesses and actuary from 2004 to 2007.  Earlier in his career with the Company he was Vice President and Associate Actuary.
Effective January 1, 2011, Mr. Freitag will receive an annual cash base salary of $425,000.  In addition, for the 2011 fiscal year, Mr. Freitag will be eligible for target awards of: (i) 100% of his base salary under the Companys annual incentive program (AIP); and (ii) 200% of his base salary under the Companys long-term incentive program (LTIP).  The AIP and LTIP were both established under our shareholder-approved 2009 Lincoln National Corporation Incentive Compensation Plan.  The Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors will establish the performance measures and target performance goals for the 2011 AIP and LTIP at its regular meeting in February 2011.  Any awards under the 2011 AIP and LTIP will be paid out after t he end of the applicable performance period only upon the Committees determination that threshold performance has been achieved for the performance measures.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 By        
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
/s/ Frederick J. Crawford
 Name:  Frederick J. Crawford
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 Title:    Executive Vice President and
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 Chief Financial Officer
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
Date:  December 17, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
                         NEWS RELEASE
 Lincoln Financial Group (NYSE: LNC) today announced that it has promoted Randal J. Freitag to Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective January 1, 2011. As CFO, Freitag will replace Frederick J. Crawford, who as previously announced will now assume the newly created position of Executive Vice President and Head of Corporate Development and Investments. Freitag and Crawford will both serve on the companys Senior Management Committee and report to Dennis R. Glass, President and Chief Executive Officer of Lincoln Financial.
Philadelphia, PA, December 16, 2010
We conducted a thorough internal and external search which confirmed that Randy is the best candidate based on his deep experience in all aspects of the CFO role as well as his broad perspective on the industry's dynamics and ongoing evolution, said Glass. Randy's background in the industry and with Lincoln's businesses, his strategic insights, demonstrated business judgment, and strong internal and external relationships will support the long-term success of the enterprise.
As Chief Financial Officer, Freitag will lead Lincolns financial team, which includes corporate finance, risk management, treasury, corporate tax, corporate actuarial, audit and investor relations. In addition, he will work closely with senior leaders throughout the company to develop strategies to position Lincoln Financial for the future.
Freitag developed his well-honed analytical and technical skills by serving in a number of  increasingly responsible roles at Lincoln Financial since joining the company in 1995. He was named Chief Risk Officer in 2007 with overall responsibility for enterprise risk management, capital and liquidity management, equity risk management and treasury. Prior to serving as Chief Risk Officer, Freitag was senior vice president of product risk & profitability management for the individual life and annuities businesses. His areas of responsibility included financial management, asset liability and equity risk (variable annuity hedging) management. Freitag has also served in the corporate actuarial area where his role included mergers & acquisitions, rating agency relations and capital allocation. Prior to joining Lincoln Financia l, Freitag held various actuarial roles. He earned a B.A. degree in Mathematics from the University of Minnesota and is a fellow of the Society of Actuaries.
About Lincoln Financial Group
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE: LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in the Philadelphia region, the companies of Lincoln Financial Group had assets under management of $150 billion as of September 30, 2010. Through its affiliated companies, Lincoln Financial Group offers: annuities; life, group life and disability insurance; 401(k) and 403(b) plans; savings plans; and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services. For more information, including a copy of our most recent SEC reports containing our balance sheets, please visit .
www.LincolnFinancial.com
 
 
 


