FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20100602103015.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act 
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act 
(17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
On May 27, 2010, the shareholders approved an amendment to Lincoln National Corporations (LNC) Restated Articles of Incorporation to provide for the election of directors by a majority of the votes cast in uncontested director elections.  This provision does not apply in a contested director election  an election where the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected  in which case, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast in the director election.  The amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation becomes effective upon filing with the Secretary of State of Indiana.
On May 27, 2010, subsequent to the shareholder approval of the amendment to LNCs Restated Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors approved a related amendment to Article II of LNCs Amended and Restated Bylaws requiring an incumbent director who receives less than a majority of the votes cast for his or her election in an uncontested director election to offer to resign within five business days of the vote being certified.  The amendment to the Amended and Restated Bylaws also provides that once a director tenders his or her resignation, the Board of Directors will act on the tendered resignation within ninety days from the date of the certification of the election results.  If an incumbent directors resignation is not accepted by the Board of Directors, such director shall cont inue to serve until the next annual meeting of shareholders and until his or her successor is duly elected, or his or her earlier resignation or removal.  If a directors resignation is accepted by the Board of Directors, or if a nominee fails to receive the required vote and the nominee is not an incumbent director, then the Board of Directors may fill the resulting vacancy or decrease the size of the Board of Directors.
A copy of the Articles of Amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1, and a copy of the amendment to the Amended and Restated Bylaws is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2.
Item 5.07.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
The annual meeting of shareholders of LNC was held on May 27, 2010 for the purpose of considering and acting upon the following matters:
As of March 22, 2010, the record date for the annual meeting, there were 302,453,768 shares of common stock, and 11,365 shares of $3.00 cumulative convertible preferred stock, series A, outstanding and entitled to vote at the annual meeting.  255,067,466 votes counted toward a quorum at the meeting.
 
 
 
The final voting results for each proposal, including the votes for and against, and any withhold votes, abstentions or broker non-votes, are described below.  For those holding LNC shares at a bank or brokerage institution, a broker non-vote occurred if the beneficial owner failed to give voting instructions and the bank or broker was otherwise restricted under New York Stock Exchange regulations from voting on the owners behalf.
Item 1  Election of Directors
The LNC shareholders elected each of the four nominees for director.  For each nominee, the votes cast for, withhold votes and broker non-votes were as follows:
Item 2  Ratification of Auditors
The LNC shareholders approved the ratification of the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as LNCs independent registered public accounting firm for 2010.  The votes cast for and against this proposal, as well as the abstentions were as follows:
There were no broker non-votes for this item.
Item 3  Approval of Amendment for Majority Vote
The LNC shareholders approved an amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation of LNC to provide for the election of directors by a majority of the votes cast in uncontested director elections.  The votes cast for and against this proposal, as well as the abstentions were as follows:
There were no broker non-votes for this item.
 
 
 
Item 4  Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation
The LNC shareholders approved the advisory vote on the compensation of the LNC executive officers named in the proxy statement for the 2010 annual meeting of shareholders.  The votes cast for and against this proposal, as well as the abstentions, were as follows:
There were no broker non-votes for this item.
 
 
Item 8.01.                            Other Events.
 
 
On May 27, 2010, Moodys Investors Service affirmed the ratings of LNCs senior debt at Baa2 and the financial strength ratings of its insurance operating subsidiaries at A2.  Moodys also announced that it has changed LNCs ratings outlook to stable from negative.
 
 
 
Item 9.01.                            Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION
 
By        
/s/ Frederick J. Crawford
Name:  Frederick J. Crawford
Title:    Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
 
Date:  June 2, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
 
The undersigned officer of Lincoln National Corporation (the Corporation), a corporation existing pursuant to the Indiana Business Corporation Law, as amended (the Act), desiring to give notice of corporate action effectuating the amendment of its Articles of Incorporation, hereby sets forth the following facts:
 
 The name of the Corporation is Lincoln National Corporation.  The date of incorporation of the Corporation is January 5, 1968.
   
 
 Article III, of the Restated Articles of Incorporation is hereby amended to change the standard of election in uncontested elections of directors to a majority of votes cast by adding new section 6 as follows:
   
  The Directors to be elected at each annual meeting of shareholders shall be chosen by the majority of votes cast by the holders of shares entitled to vote in the election at the meeting, provided a quorum is present; provided however, that if the election is a contested election, then the Director shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of shares entitled to vote, provided a quorum is present.  The election is contested if there are more nominees than vacancies on the Board of Directors, which shall be the case if: (i) a shareholder has pr operly nominated a person for election to the Board of Directors in compliance with the Corporations bylaws or applicable law and (ii) such nomination has not been withdrawn by such shareholder on or prior to ten (10) days in advance of the date that the Corporation files its definitive proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to such election (regardless of whether such proxy statement is thereafter revised or supplemented).
Section 6.  
Election of Directors
.
If the holders of Preferred Stock are entitled to elect any Directors voting separately as a class or series, those Directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of shares of Preferred Stock entitled to vote in the election at the meeting, provided a quorum of the holders of shares of Preferred Stock is present.
 
 
 
Section 1.                      This amendment was adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation on November 4, 2009, for approval by the shareholders at the Annual Meeting on May 27, 2010, on which date the shareholders approved adoption of this amendment.
The manner of adoption of the foregoing amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation and the vote by which it was adopted constitute full legal compliance with the provisions of the Act, the Articles of Incorporation and the Bylaws of the Corporation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereby verify subject to the penalties of perjury, that the statements contained herein are true, this 27th day of May, 2010.
Lincoln National Corporation
By:
/s/ Dennis R. Glass
Name: Dennis R. Glass
Title:   President and Chief Executive Officer
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
.
 
 
 
 
 
Section 10. Election of Directors
.  Directors shall be elected as set forth in the articles of incorporation of the corporation.  If a nominee fails to receive the required vote and is an incumbent director, the director shall within five (5) business days of such vote being certified by the inspector of elections promptly tender his or her resignation to the board of directors, subject to acceptance by the board of directors. The board of directors shall act on the tendered resignation within ninety days from the date of the certification of the election results. The director who tenders his or her resignation will not participate in the decision of the board of directors with r espect to his or her resignation. If an incumbent director's resignation is not accepted by the board of directors, such director shall continue to serve until the next annual meeting of shareholders and until his or her successor is duly elected, or his or her earlier resignation or removal.  If a director's resignation is accepted by the board of directors, or if a nominee fails to receive the required vote and the nominee is not an incumbent director, then the board of directors may fill the resulting vacancy pursuant to the provisions of Section 7 of this Article or may decrease the size of the board of directors pursuant to the provisions of Section 1 of this Article.


