FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20100817163358.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
       (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
      (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On August 11, 2010, the Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors (the Board) of Lincoln National Corporation (we or the Company) took the actions described below with respect to compensation for Dennis R. Glass, President and Chief Executive Officer, Frederick J. Crawford, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Wilford H. Fuller, President, Lincoln Financial Distributors, and Mark Konen, President, Insurance and Retirement Solutions.  The compensation of these executives is being restructured to be more reflective of our pay for performance principles and overall market practices following the Companys redemption of its Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B (the Series B Preferred Stock 1;) issued to the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the Treasury) as a participant in the Capital Purchase Program (CPP) and the lapse of compensation restrictions under the CPP applicable to these executive officers.
Reduction in Base Salary and the Elimination of Salary Shares
The Committee reduced the cash base salaries for these executives on an annualized basis as follows: Mr. Glass from $1,150,000 to $1,025,000; Mr. Crawford from $637,500 to $522,750; Mr. Fuller from $500,000 to $410,000; and Mr. Konen from $646,875 to $530,438, effective beginning August 14, 2010.
While subject to the CPP restrictions, Messrs. Glass, Crawford, Fuller and Konen received payments of salary in shares of our common stock (Salary Shares).  The Committee eliminated the payment of Salary Shares going forward.
Special Incentive Award for 2010
The Committee approved a special incentive program (SIP) under our shareholder-approved 2009 Lincoln National Corporation Incentive Compensation Plan (the ICP) for the abbreviated performance period from July 1 through December 31, 2010 for Messrs. Glass, Crawford, Fuller and Konen.  Under the SIP, the Committee approved the following performance measures: income from operations per share; statutory earnings; sales targets; and the achievement of budget goals.  For our business unit heads, these measures are weighted between enterprise results and the applicable line of business results.  The Committee also approved the target performance goals for each measure and the relative weightings between enterprise and line of business results for the performance measures.  The d efinitions of income from operations and statutory earnings are substantially similar to the definitions disclosed in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis included in our proxy statement in connection with our 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  These performance criteria are consistent with those set forth in the ICP, which was filed as Exhibit 4 to our proxy statement in connection with the 2009 Annual Meeting of shareholders.
 
The Committee may, in its discretion, make adjustments to the definitions of income from operations per share and statutory earnings, if the net effect of such discretionary adjustments would be to reduce award payouts consistent with 162(m).
 
 
 
 
The Committee also established the target SIP awards for Messrs. Glass, Crawford, Fuller and Konen as a percentage of their prorated base salary, or $788,462, $221,163, $394,231 and $277,460 respectively.  The SIP award will be paid out after the end of the applicable performance period only upon the Committees determination that threshold performance has been achieved for at least one of the four performance measures.  The maximum SIP award is 200% of target.  The minimum SIP award is 25% of target on a weighted average basis provided that threshold level of performance is achieved for at least one measure.  The participants must be actively employed by the Company through August 1, 2011 to be eligible for payment of the SIP award.
Item 5.03.  Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change of Fiscal Year.
As a result of our redemption of all of the outstanding shares of the Series B Preferred Stock, the Board of Directors approved a restatement to our Restated Articles of Incorporation on August 11, 2010 to remove the certificate of designations for the Series B Preferred Stock.  This amendment does not require shareholder approval under Indiana law. The Restated Articles of Incorporation will be effective upon filing with the Secretary of State of Indiana.
A copy of the Restated Articles of Incorporation is attached here as Exhibit 3.1.
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
On August 6, 2010, David A. Stonecipher, a member of our Board, adopted a stock trading plan in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The 10b5-1 plan provides for the sale of up to 100,000 shares of common stock of the Company in various amounts and beginning on September 6, 2010 and ending February 28, 2011, unless the plan is terminated prior to that date.
at prices ranging from $33 to $36 per share
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION
 
 
Date:  August 17, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
The name of the Corporation is Lincoln National Corporation.
The total number of shares which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is eight hundred ten million (810,000,000) shares, consisting of eight hundred million (800,000,000) shares of a single class of shares to be known as Common Stock, and ten million (10,000,000) shares of a single class of shares to be known as Preferred Stock.
Section 1.  
Number and Classes of Shares.
 
Only when all dividends accrued on all preferred or special classes of shares entitled to preferential dividends shall have been paid or declared and set apart for payment, but not otherwise, the holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive dividends, when and as declared by the Board of Directors.  In event of any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of the Common Stock shall be entitled, after due payment or provision for payment of the debts and other liabilities of the Corporation, and the amounts to which the holders of preferred or special classes of shares may be entitled, to share ratably in the remaining net assets of the Corporation.
Section 2.  
Terms of Common Stock.
 
Except as otherwise provided by law, every holder of Common Stock of the Corporation shall have the right at every shareholders meeting to one vote for each share of Common Stock standing in his name on the books of the Corporation on the date established by the Board of Directors as the record date for determination of shareholders entitled to vote at such meeting.
Section 3.  
Voting Rights of Common Stock.
 
The Board of Directors shall have authority to determine and state in the manner provided by law the rights, preferences, qualifications, limitations and restrictions (other than voting rights) of the Preferred Stock.  The Preferred Stock may be issued in one or more series for such an amount of consideration as may be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors, and the Board of Directors shall have authority to determine and state in the manner provided by law the designations and the relative rights, preferences, qualifications, limitations and restrictions (other than voting rights ) of each series.
Section 4.  
Terms of Preferred Stock.
 
  Except as otherwise provided by law, every holder of Preferred Stock of the Corporation shall have the right at every shareholders meeting to one vote for each share of Preferred Stock standing in his name on the books of the Corporation on the date established by the Board of Directors as the record date for determination of shareholders entitled to vote at such meeting.
Section 5.  
Voting Rights of Preferred Stock.
At any time when six or more quarterly dividends, whether or not consecutive, on the Preferred Stock, or on any one or more series thereof, shall be in default, the holders of all Preferred Stock at the time or times outstanding as to which such default shall exist shall be entitled, at the next annual meeting of shareholders, voting as a class, to vote for and elect two Directors of the Corporation.
1
 
 
In the case of any vacancy in the office of a Director occurring among the Directors elected by the holders of the shares of the Preferred Stock voting as a class pursuant to this Section, the remaining Director or Directors elected by the holders of the shares of the Preferred Stock pursuant to this Section may elect a successor or successors to hold office until the next annual or special meeting of the shareholders.
At all meetings of shareholders held for the purpose of electing Directors during such time as the holders of the shares of the Preferred Stock shall have the right, voting as a class, to elect Directors pursuant to this Section, the presence in person or by proxy of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock then entitled, as a class, to elect Directors pursuant to this Section shall be required to constitute a quorum of such class for the election of Directors; provided, that the absence of a quorum of the holders of Preferred Stock shall not prevent the election at any such meeting or adjournment thereof of Directors by any other class or classes of stock if the necessary quorum of the holders of such stock is present in person or by proxy at such meeting.
The right of the holders of Preferred Stock, voting as a class, to participate in the election of Directors pursuant to this Section shall continue in effect, in the case of all Preferred Stock entitled to receive cumulative dividends, until all accumulated and unpaid dividends have been paid or declared and set apart for payment on all cumulative Preferred Stock, the holders of which shall have been entitled to vote at the previous annual meeting of shareholders, or in the case of all non-cumulative Preferred Stock until non-cumulative dividends have been paid or declared and set apart for payment for four consecutive quarterly dividend periods on all non-cumulative Preferred Stock, the holders of which shall have been entitled to vote at the previous annual meeting of shareholders, and thereafter the right of the holders of Preferred St ock, voting as a class, to participate in the election of Directors pursuant to this Section shall terminate.
Upon termination of the right of the holders of Preferred Stock, voting as a class, to participate in the election of Directors pursuant to this Section, the term of office of each Director then in office elected by the holders of the Preferred Stock shall terminate, and any vacancy so created may be filled as provided by the bylaws of the Corporation.
Any Director or Directors elected by the holders of Preferred Stock, voting as a class pursuant to this Section, may be removed, with or without cause, only by a vote of the holders of three-fourths of the outstanding shares of Preferred Stock taken at a meeting as provided by Section 4 of Article III of these Articles of Incorporation.
The Corporation shall not, without the approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of the Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, voting as a class:
2
 
 
  The holders of the outstanding shares of a class, or of any series thereof, shall not be entitled to vote as a class except as shall be expressly provided by this Article or by law.
Section 6.  
Class Voting.
  The initial Board of Directors shall be composed of thirteen members.  The number of Directors may from time to time be fixed by the bylaws of the Corporation at any number not less than three.  In the absence of a bylaw fixing the number of Directors, the number shall be thirteen.
Section 1.  
Number.
  Directors need not be shareholders of the Corporation, but shall have other qualifications as the bylaws of the Corporation prescribe.
Section 2.  
Qualifications.
  When the Board of Directors consists of nine or more members, the bylaws of the Corporation may provide that the Directors shall be divided into two or more classes whose terms of office shall expire at different times, but no term shall continue longer than three years.
Section 3.  
Classification.
  Any or all of the members of the Board of Directors may be removed, with or without cause, at a meeting of shareholders called expressly for that purpose by a vote of the holders of three-fourths of the shares of the Corporation outstanding and then entitled to vote at an election of Directors.
Section 4.  
Removal.
  Notwithstanding anything contained in these Articles of Incorporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least three-fourths of the shares of the Corporation outstanding and then entitled to vote at an election of Directors, voting together and not by class, shall be required to alter, amend, repeal, or adopt provisions inconsistent with, this Article III of these Articles of Incorporation.
Section 5.  
Amendment, Repeal, etc.
  The Directors to be elected at each annual meeting of shareholders shall be chosen by the majority of votes cast by the holders of shares entitled to vote in the election at the meeting, provided a quorum is present; provided however, that if the election is a contested election, then the Director shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of shares entitled to vote, provided a quorum is present.  The election is contested if there are more nominees than vacancies on the Board of Directors, which shall be the case if: (i) a shareholder has pr operly nominated a person for election to the Board of Directors in compliance with the Corporations bylaws or applicable law and (ii) such nomination has not been withdrawn by such shareholder on or prior to ten (10) days in advance of the date that the Corporation files its definitive proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to such election (regardless of whether such proxy statement is thereafter revised or supplemented).
Section 6.  
Election of Directors
.
If the holders of Preferred Stock are entitled to elect any Directors voting separately as a class or series, those Directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of shares of Preferred Stock entitled to vote in the election at the meeting, provided a quorum of the holders of shares of Preferred Stock is present.
3
 
 
No shares of the Common Stock of The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company owned by the Corporation shall be sold, leased, exchanged, mortgaged, pledged, or otherwise disposed of except by the vote of the holders of three-fourths of the shares of the Corporation outstanding and entitled to vote thereon at an annual or special meeting of the shareholders held upon notice which includes notice of the proposed sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, or other disposition.
Section 1.  
Vote Required.
  In addition to any affirmative vote required by law or these Articles of Incorporation, and except as otherwise expressly provided in Section 2 of this Article V:
Clause (a).  Higher Vote for Certain Business Combinations.
shall require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least three-fourths of the shares of the Corporation outstanding and then entitled to vote at an election of directors (the Voting Stock), voting together and not by class (it being understood that for purposes of this Article V, each share of the Voting Stock shall have the number of votes granted to it pursuant to Article II of these Articles of Incorporation).  Such affirmative vote shall be required notwithstanding the fact that no vote may be required, or that a lesser percentage may be specified, by law or in any agreement with any national securities exchange or otherwise.
4
 
 
  The term Business Combination as used in this Article V shall mean any transaction which is referred to in any one or more of paragraphs 1 through 5 of Clause (a) of this Section 1.
Clause (b). Definition of Business Combination.
  The provisions of Section 1 of this Article V shall not be applicable to any particular Business Combination, and such Business Combination shall require only such affirmative vote as is required by law and any other provision of these Articles of Incorporation, if all of the conditions specified in either of the following Clauses (a) and (b) are met:
Section 2.
When Higher Vote is Not Required.
  The Business Combination shall have been approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors (as hereinafter defined).
Clause (a). Approval by Continuing Directors.
All of the following conditions shall have been met:
Clause (b). Price and Procedure Requirements.  
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
  For the purposes of this Article V:
Section 3.
Certain Definitions.
A person shall include any individual, firm, corporation or other entity.  When two or more persons act as a partnership, limited partnership, syndicate, or other group for the purpose of acquiring Voting Stock of the Corporation, such partnership, syndicate or group shall be deemed a person.
Clause (a).
Interested Shareholder shall mean any person (other than the Corporation or any Subsidiary) who or which:
Clause (b).
A person shall be a beneficial owner of any Voting Stock:
Clause (c).
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
For the purpose of determining whether a person is an Interested Shareholder pursuant to Clause (b) of this Section 3, the number of shares of Voting Stock deemed to be outstanding shall include shares deemed owned through application of Clause (c) of this Section 3 but shall not include any other shares of Voting Stock which may be issuable pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise.
Clause (d).
Affiliate or Associate shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as in effect on January 13, 1985.
Clause (e).
Subsidiary means any corporation of which a majority of any class of equity securities is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation; provided, however, that for the purposes of the definition of Interested Shareholder set forth in Clause (b) of this Section 3, the term Subsidiary shall mean only a corporation of which a majority of each class of equity securities is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation.
Clause (f).
Continuing Director means any member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the Board) who is unaffiliated with the Interested Shareholder and was a member of the Board prior to the time that the Interested Shareholder became an Interested Shareholder, and any successor of a Continuing Director who is unaffiliated with the Interested Shareholder and is recommended to succeed a Continuing Director by a majority of Continuing Directors then on the Board.
Clause (g).
Fair Market Value means:
Clause (h).
References to Highest Per Share Price shall in each case with respect to any class of stock reflect an appropriate adjustment for any dividend or distribution in shares of such stock or any stock split, reclassification, recapitalization or combination of outstanding shares of such stock into a greater or lesser number of shares of such stock.
Clause (i).
7
 
 
 
In the event of any Business Combination in which the Corporation survives, the phrase consideration other than cash to be received as used in Clauses (b)1 and 2 of Section 2 of this Article V shall include the shares of Common Stock and/or the shares of any other class of outstanding Voting Stock owned by the holders of such shares.
Clause (j).
  A majority of the Continuing Directors of the Corporation shall have the power and duty to determine for the purposes of this Article V, on the basis of information known to them after reasonable inquiry, (a) whether a person is an Interested Shareholder, (b) the number of shares of Voting Stock beneficially owned by any person, (c) whether a person is an Affiliate or Associate of another, and (d) whether the assets which are the subject of any Business Combination have, or the consideration to be received for the issuance or transfer of securities by the Corporation or any Subsidiary in any Business Combination has, an aggregate Fair Market Value of $1, 000,000 or more.
Section 4.
Powers of the Board of Directors.
Nothing contained in this Article V shall be construed to relieve any Interested Shareholder from any fiduciary or other obligation imposed by law.
Section 5.
No Effect on Fiduciary Obligations of Interested Shareholders.
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of these Articles of Incorporation or the bylaws of the Corporation (and notwithstanding the fact that a lesser percentage may be specified by law, in these Articles of Incorporation or the bylaws of the Corporation), the affirmative vote of the holders of three-fourths or more of the voting power of the shares of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together and not by class, shall be required to alter, amend, repeal, or adopt provisions inconsistent with, this Article V of these Articles of Incorporation.
Section 6.
Amendment, Repeal, etc.
 
8 
 
 
RESOLVED that, pursuant to the authority expressly granted to and vested in the Board of Directors of the Corporation by the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation, this Board of Directors hereby creates and authorizes the issue of, for the consideration stated, a series of the Preferred Stock of the Corporation, to consist of 2,233,421 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation, and this Board of Directors hereby fixes the designation and the relatives rights, preferences, qualifications, limitations and restrictions (other than voting rights) of the shares of such series as follows:
Section 1.
Designation.
1.1. The designation of the series of Preferred Stock created by this resolution shall be $3.00 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series A (the Series A Preferred Stock).
Section 2.
Dividends.
2.1. The holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, but only when and as declared by the Board of Directors, out of any assets of the Corporation legally available for the purpose, cash dividends at the rate of $3.00 per share per annum, and no more, payable $0.75 per share quarterly on the fifth day of March, June, September and December of each year to such stockholders of record on the respective dates, not exceeding 50 days preceding such dividend dates, fixed for the purpose by the Board of Directors.
2.2. Dividends shall be cumulative on shares of the Series A Preferred Stock from and after dates determined as follows:
Accumulation of dividends shall not bear interest.
2.3. No dividends (other than dividends payable in Common Stock of the Corporation) shall be paid or declared on the Common Stock of the Corporation or on any other series of the Preferred Stock or on any other class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking as to dividends junior to or on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of the Series A Preferred Stock for all past dividend periods have been paid and unless full dividends on all such shares for the then current dividend period shall have been paid or declared.
Section 3.
Preference in Liquidation.
3.1. In the event of the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock then outstanding shall be entitled to receive,
 
 
9
 
 
 
after payment or provision for payment of all creditors of the Corporation, but before any distribution or payment shall be made in respect of the Common Stock or any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series A Preferred Stock as to assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding up, an amount equal to $80 per share, plus an amount equal to all unpaid dividends thereon accrued on a daily basis to the date when funds for payment are made available to the holders; and no payment on account of liquidation, dissolution or winding up shall be made to the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or any other stock of the Corporation ranking on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock as to assets, unless there shall likewise be paid at the same time to the holders of all shares of Series A Preferred Stock like proportionate di stributive amounts ratably, in proportion to the full distributive amounts to which they are respectively entitled.  The holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall have no rights in respect of the remaining assets of the Corporation.
3.2. Neither the consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or corporations, nor the sale or transfer by the Corporation of all or any part of its assets, shall be deemed to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation for purpose of this Section 3.
Section 4.
Redemption.
4.1. At any time or from time to time after October 31, 1974, (but not before such time) and so long as any dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock are not in arrears, the Corporation at the option of its Board of Directors, shall have the right to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock, in whole or from time to time in part, at a price equal to $80 per share plus an amount equal to all unpaid dividends thereon accrued on a daily basis to the date of redemption.
4.2. Notice of every redemption shall be mailed at least 30 days, but not more than 60 days, prior to the date fixed for redemption, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective addresses as the same shall appear on the books of the Corporation.  In the case of a redemption of a part only of the Series A Preferred Stock the Corporation shall select by lot the shares so to be redeemed.
4.3. If notice or redemption shall have been mailed as aforesaid, and if on or before the redemption date specified in such notice a sum equal to the redemption price of the shares so called for redemption shall have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds for the pro rata benefit of the holders of the shares so called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, whether or not certificates for the shares so called for redemption shall have been surrendered for cancellation, such shares, from and after the date of redemption so designated, shall be deemed to be no longer outstanding, the right to receive dividends thereon shall cease to accrue and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cea se and terminate except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the redemption price.
4.4. The Corporation may, however, at any time prior to the redemption date specified in the notice of redemption but after such notice of redemption shall have been mailed as aforesaid, deposit in trust, for the account of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock to be redeemed, with a bank or trust company in good standing organized under the laws of the United States of America or of the State of New York, or of the State of Illinois, doing business in the Borough of Manhattan, city of New York, or in the City of Chicago, Illinois, having capital, surplus and undivided profits aggregating at least $5,000,000, designated in such notice of redemption, a sum equal to the redemption price of such shares so called for redemption, and thereupon, whether or not certificates for the shares so called for redemption shall have been surrendered for cancellation (if such notice shall state that holders of the shares so called for redemption may receive their redemption price at any time after such deposit), all shares with respect to which such deposit shall have been made shall be deemed to be no longer outstanding, the right to receive dividends thereon for any period after the date so fixed for redemption shall cease to accrue and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith upon such deposit in trust cease and terminate except only (a) the rights of the holders thereof to receive from such bank or trust company, at any time after the time of such deposit, the redemption price of such shares to be redeemed, or (b) the right to exercise, on or before the close of business on the third business day prior to the date fixed for redemption, the
 
 
10
 
 
 
 
privileges of conversion.  Any moneys so deposited by the Corporation which shall not be required for such redemption because of the exercise of any such right of conversion, shall be repaid to the Corporation forthwith.  Any moneys so deposited by the Corporation and unclaimed at the end of six years from the date fixed for such redemption shall be repaid to the Corporation upon its request expressed in a resolution of its Board of Directors, after which repayment the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for the payment thereof.
4.5. Shares of Series A Preferred Stock so redeemed shall, after the Corporation takes appropriate steps required or permitted by the laws of Indiana, have the status of authorized and unissued shares of Preferred Stock, and the number of shares of Preferred Stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue shall not be decreased by the redemption of shares of Series A Preferred Stock.
4.6. Nothing in this Section 4 shall limit any legal right of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire any shares of the Preferred Stock at not exceeding the price at which the same may be redeemed at the option of the Corporation.
Section 5. .
Conversion Rights
5.1. Subject to adjustment as provided in this Section 5, each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall be convertible at the option of the respective holder thereof, at the office of the transfer agent for the Common Stock, and at such other place or places, if any, as the Board of Directors may determine, into one fully paid and non-assessable share of Common Stock (the Common Stock) of the Corporation.  In case of the redemption of any shares of Series A Preferred Stock, such right of conversion shall terminate, as to the shares called for redemption, at the close of business on the third business day prior to the date fixed for redemption, unless default shall be made in the payment of the redemption price.  Upon conversion the Corporation shall make no payment or adjustment on account of unpaid dividends accrued on the Series A Preferred Stock surrendered for conversion.
5.2. The Common Stock issuable upon conversion of Series A Preferred Stock shall be Common Stock as constituted at the date of this resolution, except as otherwise provided in subdivision (b) of Section 5.5.
5.3. Before any holder of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to convert the same into Common Stock, he shall surrender the certificate or certificates for such Series A Preferred Stock at the office of the transfer agent for the Common Stock, which certificate or certificates, if the Corporation shall so request, shall be duly endorsed to the Corporation or in blank or accompanied by proper instruments of transfer to the Corporation or in blank, and shall give written notice to the Corporation at that office that he elects so to convert Series A Preferred Stock, and shall state in writing therein the name of or names in which he wishes the certificate or certificates for Common Stock to be issued. Every such notice of election to convert shall constitute a contract between the holde r of such Series A Preferred Stock and the Corporation, whereby the holder of such Series A Preferred Stock shall be deemed to subscribe for the amount of Common Stock which he shall be entitled to receive upon such conversion, and, in satisfaction of such subscription, to deposit the Series A Preferred Stock to be converted and to release the Corporation from all liability thereunder, and thereby the Corporation shall be deemed to agree that the surrender of the certificate or certificates for the Series A Preferred Stock and the extinguishment of liability thereon shall constitute full payment of such subscription for Common Stock to be issued upon such conversion.
5.4. As soon as practicable after such deposit of certificates for Series A Preferred Stock accompanied by the written notice and the statement above prescribed, the Corporation will issue and deliver at the office of the transfer agent to the person for whose account such Series A Preferred Stock was so surrendered, or to his nominee or nominees, certificates for the number of full shares of Common Stock to which he shall be entitled as aforesaid, together with a cash adjustment of any fraction of a share as herein stated, if not evenly convertible.  Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, such conversion shall be deemed to have been made as of the date of such surrender of the Series A Preferred Stock to be converted; and the person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of such Series A Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such Common Stock on such date.  The Corporation shall not be required to convert, and no surrender of Series A
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
Preferred Stock shall be effective for that purpose, while the stock transfer books of the Corporation are closed for any purpose; but the surrender of Series A Preferred Stock for conversion during any period while such books are so closed shall become effective for conversion immediately upon the re-opening of such books, as if the conversion had been made on the date such Series A Preferred Stock was surrendered.
5.5. The number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be convertible shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as follows:
Common Stock, by reclassification or otherwise, or
the conversion rate shall be adjusted so that the holder of each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall thereafter be entitled to receive upon the conversion of such share the number of shares of the Corporation which he would have owned or have been entitled to receive after the happening of any of the events described above had such share been converted immediately prior to the happening of such event. Further such adjustments shall be made whenever any of the events listed above shall occur.
(b)
 
In case of any capital reorganization or any reclassification of the capital stock of the Corporation or in case of the consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into another corporation, or in case of any sale or conveyance to another corporation of the assets of the Corporation as an entirety or substantially as an entirety, the holder of each share of Series A Preferred Stock then outstanding shall have the right to convert such share into the kind and number of shares of stock and other securities and property receivable upon such reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance, as the case may be, by a holder of that number of shares of Common Stock into which one share of Series A Prefe rred Stock is convertible; and, in any such case, appropriate adjustment (as determined in good faith by a resolution of the Board of Directors of the Corporation) shall be made in the application of the provisions herein set forth with respect to rights and interests thereafter of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, to the end that the provisions set forth herein (including the specified adjustments) shall thereafter be applicable, as near as reasonably may be, in relation to any shares or other property thereafter deliverable upon the conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock.
(c)
 
In case the Corporation shall issue rights or warrants to the holders of its Common Stock for the purpose of entitling them to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at a price per share less than 95% of the current market price per share of Common Stock (as defined in Section 5.9) on the date at which a record is taken of the holders of such issuance, the number of shares of Common Stock into which each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall thereafter be convertible shall be determined by multiplying the number of shares of Common Stock into which such share of Series A Preferred Stock was immediately theretofore convertible by a fraction, of which the numerator shall be the sum of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the time of the taking of such record plus the
 
 
12
 
 
   
 
 number of additional shares of Common Stock so offered for subscription or purchase, and of which the denominator shall be the sum of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the time of the taking
   
 of such record plus the number of shares of Common Stock which the aggregate offering price of the total number of shares so offered would purchase at such current market price per share for such date.
   
(d)
 
No adjustment in the number of shares of Common Stock into which any share of Series A Preferred Stock is convertible shall be required unless such adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least 5% in the number of shares of Common Stock into which a share of Series A Preferred Stock is then convertible; provided, however, that any adjustments which by reason of this subdivision (d) are not required to be made shall be carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment.  All calculations under this Section 5.5 shall be made to the nearest cent or to the nearest one-hundredth of a share, as the case may be.
Whenever such an adjustment is to be made, the Corporation shall forthwith file with the transfer agent for the Series A Preferred Stock and the Common Stock, a statement signed by the President or one of the Vice Presidents of the Corporation and by its Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, stating the adjustment to be made.  Such statement shall show in detail the facts requiring such adjustment.  Whenever such an adjustment is to be made, the Corporation will forthwith cause a notice stating the adjustment to be mailed to the respective holders of record of Series A Preferred Stock.  Where appropriate, such notice may be given in advance and included as a part of a notice required to be mailed under the provisions of the following paragraph of this Section 5.5.
In case at any time:
(i)
 
the Corporation shall pay any dividend payable in stock upon its Common Stock or make any distribution (other than cash dividends) to the holders of its Common Stock; or
(ii)
 
the Corporation shall offer for subscription pro rata to the holders of its Common Stock any additional shares of stock of any class or any other rights; or
(iii)
 
the consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into another corporation or the sale or conveyance of all or substantially all the assets of the Corporation shall be proposed by the Corporation;
then in any one or more of those cases, the Corporation shall cause at least fifteen days prior notice to be mailed to the transfer agent for the Series A Preferred Stock and the Common Stock and to the holders of record of the outstanding Series A Preferred Stock of the date on which (x) the books of the Corporation shall close, or a record be taken for such stock dividend, distribution or subscription rights, or (y) such consolidation or merger or conveyance shall take place, as the case may be. Such notice shall also specify the date as of which holders of Common Stock of record shall participate in the dividend, distribution or subscription rights or shall be entitled to exchange their Common Stock for securities or other property deliverable upon such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance, as the case may be, and shall spe cify the proposed transactions in reasonable detail.
5.6. Shares of Series A Preferred Stock converted into Common Stock shall have the status of authorized and unissued shares of Preferred Stock, and the number of shares of Preferred Stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue shall not be decreased by the conversion of shares of Series A Preferred Stock.
5.7. The Corporation shall at all times reserve and keep available, out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for the purpose of effecting the conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock, such number of shares as shall from time to time be sufficient to effect the conversion of all shares of Series A Preferred Stock from time to time outstanding.  The Corporation shall from time to time, in accordance with the laws of Indiana increase the authorized amount of its Common Stock if at any time the number of shares of Common Stock remaining unissued shall not be sufficient to permit the conversion of all the then outstanding Series A Preferred Stock.
 
 
13
 
 
 
5.8. No fractions of shares of Common Stock will be issued upon conversion.  In the event that because of any adjustments required to be made by Section 5.5 fractions of shares of Common Stock would be required to be issued upon conversion, the Corporation will, in lieu of issuing such fractions of shares, pay to the person otherwise entitled to such fractions the cash value of such fractions based upon the current market price (as defined in Section 5.9) per share of Common Stock on the day prior to that on which shares of Series A Preferred Stock are surrendered by such person for conversion.
5.9. The current market price per share of Common Stock as to any specified day shall be deemed to be the last reported sale price of the Common Stock for such day (or, if there is no sale on such day, the last bid quotation for the Common Stock) on the New York Stock Exchange (or, if the Common Stock is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, on a national securities exchange designated by the Corporation) or, if the Common Stock is not listed upon any national securities exchange, the average of the closing bid and asked quotations for the Common Stock for such day as furnished by the trading department of any New York Stock Exchange member firm selected from time to time by the Corporation for the purpose and deemed by it to be reliable.  If an exchange was not open, or if the Common Stock was not traded on an exchange or elsewhere, on a day as of which the current market price is to be determined, the determination of price or quotation shall be made as of the last business day before such day.
5.10. The Corporation will pay any and all issue and other taxes that may be payable in respect of any issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversion of Series A Preferred Stock pursuant hereto. The Corporation shall not, however, be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue and delivery of Common Stock in a name other than that in which the Series A Preferred Stock so converted was registered, and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue has paid to the Corporation the amount of any such tax, or has established, to the satisfaction of the Corporation, that such tax has been paid.
5.11. The Corporation covenants that if any shares of Common Stock, required to be reserved for purposes of conversion of the Series A Preferred Stock hereunder, require registration with, or approval of, any governmental authority under any federal or state law or listing on any national securities exchange, before such shares may be issued upon conversion, the Corporation will in good faith and as expeditiously as possible take such action as may be necessary to secure such registration or approval or listing on the relevant national securities exchange, as the case may be.
Section 6.  
Consideration for Issue of Series A Preferred Stock.
6.1. Shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be issued in exchange for shares of common stock of Chicago Title and Trust Company pursuant to the terms of the Memorandum of Understanding between this Corporation and Chicago Title and Trust Company, which memorandum was approved by the Board of Directors of the Corporation at its special meeting of April 28, 1969.  Pursuant to Section 4 of Article II of the Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors hereby fixes as the amount of consideration to be received by the Corporation for the issue of each share of Series A Preferred Stock, one share of common stock of Chicago Title and Trust Company.
 
 
14 
 
 
 


