FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20100428170955.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
This amendment is being filed solely to correct the item number filed in the Form 8-K dated April 28, 2010 from Item 2.06 to Item 2.02.  Except for correcting this information, no other information in our Form 8-K dated April 28, 2010 has been amended or updated.
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 28, 2010, the registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The registrants statistical supplement for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference, and a general account supplement as of March 31, 2010, is attached as Exhibit 99.3 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information, including exhibits attached hereto, furnished under this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are being furnished with this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION
 
By        
/s/ Douglas N. Miller
Name:  Douglas N. Miller
Title:    Vice President and
Chief Accounting Officer
 
Date:  April 28, 2010
 
 
 

 
                         NEWS RELEASE
 Lincoln Financial Group (NYSE:LNC) today reported net income for the first quarter of 2010 of $283 million, or $0.85 per diluted share available to common stockholders, compared to a net loss in the first quarter of 2009 of $579 million, or $2.27 per diluted share.  Net income in the first quarter of 2010 included net realized losses of $27 million, after tax, or $0.09 per share, versus the prior year quarter, which included net realized losses of $136 million, or $0.54 per share.  The current quarter included income from discontinued operations of $28 million, or $0.09 per share, including a gain on the disposition of Lincoln UK and Delaware Investments.  The 2009 quarter included a non-cash charge of $600 mil lion, after tax, or $2.35 per share, for the impairment of goodwill in the annuity business.
Philadelphia, PA, April 28, 2010
 
*The per share calculation used in the losses per share represent basic shares.
The first quarter income from operations was $276 million, or $0.83 per diluted share available to common stockholders, compared to $163 million, or $0.64 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2009. Income from operations in the current quarter reflected growth in average variable account values versus the prior year quarter driven by positive net flows and improvement in equity markets, favorable unlocking of deferred acquisition costs (DAC) in the annuity business and unfavorable mortality in the individual and group life businesses.
 
1
 
The 2010 earnings available to common stockholders per share reflect the accrued dividend and accretion of discount on the series B preferred stock of $18.4 million.
:
First Quarter 2010 Operating Highlights
Dennis R. Glass, president and CEO, said, Our results in the quarter reflect our ability to drive growth in our businesses with quality products and strong distribution along with the benefits of continued improvement in the capital markets.  Positive net flows driven by solid sales results and good persistency were evident in all of our businesses.  Mortality experience was elevated in the quarter in both the individual and group life businesses, but in both instances, we expect mortality to return to more normal levels in future periods.
We entered 2010 in a very strong capital position and saw it strengthened in the first quarter. We continued to see investment losses decline and our net unrealized position shifted to a solid net gain.  We are encouraged by improving signs in the economy and our franchise remains well positioned to take advantage of the strong demand for insurance products and increasing need for advice.
 
2
 
First Quarter 2010  Segment Results
Retirement Solutions
Individual Annuities
The Individual Annuities segment reported income from operations of $119 million in the first quarter of 2010 versus income from operations of $74 million in the year-ago period, reflecting a 34% increase in the average annuity account values. The 2010 quarter included a net positive impact of approximately $21 million, after tax, primarily attributable to DAC unlocking.
Gross annuity deposits were $2.3 billion and net flows were $575 million, up 4% and 34%, respectively, versus the prior year.
Defined Contribution
Defined Contribution reported income from operations of $36 million, versus income from operations of $30 million for the same period a year ago, reflecting a 26% increase in the average account values.
Gross deposits of $1.3 billion were down 16% versus the prior year quarter.  Total net flows in the current quarter were $109 million as compared to $657 million in the 2009 quarter.  The year-over-year declines are primarily attributable to the timing of the placement of a few large cases.
Insurance Solutions
Life Insurance
Life Insurance income from operations was $137 million, compared to $142 million in the first quarter of 2009.  The life insurance segments results in 2010 included net negative items totaling approximately $14 million, including unfavorable mortality of $8 million.
Life insurance sales were $143 million reflecting strong double-digit sales increases of and term life insurance offset by lower universal and variable universal life insurance sales.   The sales trend in higher policy count and smaller average face amount continued in the quarter.
MoneyGuard
 
3
 
Group Protection
For the first quarter, Group Protections income from operations was $21 million, compared to $26 million in the prior-year period.  The quarter included $10 million of negative loss ratio experience relative to expectations.  The non-medical loss ratio was 75% in the current quarter, compared to 71% and 69% in the first and fourth quarters of 2009, respectively.  The unfavorable development in the current quarters loss ratio was driven primarily by unfavorable mortality experience in group life.
Non-medical net earned premiums were $375 million in the first quarter, up 6% over the year-ago period.  Annualized sales of $63 million increased 16% year-over-year.
Other Operations
The operating loss in Other Operations was $37 million in the quarter, versus a loss of $109 million in the prior-year quarter. The 2010 quarter included a net negative impact of approximately $4 million, after tax, related primarily to expenses.  The 2009 quarter included a charge of $64 million, after tax, related to the unfavorable arbitration ruling with Swiss Re.
Alternative Investment Income
Income from operations in the first quarter of 2010 included alternative investment income of $9 million, after DAC, after tax, compared to a loss of $2 million in the year-ago quarter and income of $22 million in the fourth quarter of 2009.  The company's alternative investment portfolio, of approximately $700 million of book value, performed consistent with our long-term return expectations.
Realized Gains and Losses
The company reported a net realized loss in the quarter of $27 million compared to a net realized loss of $136 million in the year-ago quarter.
Total gross realized losses in the 2010 quarter on general account investments were $108 million, pre tax, as compared to $247 million in the prior-year quarter and $212 million in the fourth quarter of 2009.  Losses in the current quarter were primarily related to residential mortgage-backed securities and commercial real estate.
 
4
 
Unrealized Gains and Losses
The company reported a net unrealized gain of $1.2 billion, pre-tax, on its available for sale securities at March 31, 2010.  This compares to a net unrealized loss of $6.8 billion at March 31, 2009, and a net unrealized loss of $43 million at December 31, 2009.
Book Value
As of March 31, 2010, the book value per share of common stock, including accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI), was $38.19 compared to $28.59 a year ago. Book value per share, excluding AOCI, was $37.19, compared to $40.20 a year ago.
In the quarter, the companyadopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2009-17, Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities (ASU 2009-17) effective January 1, 2010.  This resulted in a decrease in shareholders equity, excluding AOCI, of $169 million, after tax, or $0.56 of book value per share related to the companys investment in credit linked notes.
 
This press release may contain statements that are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially, especially given the current economic and credit conditions. Please see the Forward-Looking Statements  Cautionary Language that follow for additional factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. 
The tables attached to this release define and reconcile income from operations, return on equity (ROE), and book value per share excluding AOCI, non-GAAP measures, to net income, ROE, and book value per share including AOCI calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Lincoln Financial Group will discuss the companys first quarter results with investors in a conference call beginning at 11:00 a.m. (ET) on Thursday, April 29, 2010. Interested persons are invited to listen through the internet. Please go to at least fifteen minutes prior to the event to register, download and install any necessary streaming media software. Interested persons may also listen to the call by dialing the following numbers:
www.LincolnFinancial.com/webcast
 
Dial:           (877) 776-4049 (Domestic)
   (914) 495-8602 (International)
 
5
 
- Ask for the Lincoln National Conference Call.
The company will also post its first quarter 2010 statistical supplement and a general account supplement on its Web site, .
www.LincolnFinancial.com/earnings
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in the Philadelphia region, the companies of Lincoln Financial Group had assets under management of $146 billion as of March 31, 2010. Through its affiliated companies, Lincoln Financial Group offers: annuities; life, group life and disability insurance; 401(k) and 403(b) plans; savings plans; and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services. For more information, including a copy of our most recent SEC reports containing our balance sheets, please visit .
www.LincolnFinancial.com
Contacts:       Jim Sjoreen                                                                  Laurel OBrien
484 583-1420                                                                484 583-1735
Investor Relations                                                     Media Relations
Investorrelations@LFG.com                                    mediarelations@LFG.com
 
 
6
 
Definition of Income (Loss) from Operations and ROE
Income (loss) from operations and ROE, as used in the earnings release, are non-GAAP financial measures and are not substitutes for net income (loss) and ROE, calculated using GAAP measures.  We exclude the after-tax effects of the following items from GAAP net income (loss) to arrive at income (loss) from operations: realized gains and losses associated with the following ("excluded realized gain (loss)"): sale or disposal of securities; impairments of securities; change in the fair value of embedded derivatives within certain reinsurance arrangements and the change in the fair value of our trading securities; change in the fair value of the derivatives we own to hedge our guaranteed death benefit ("GDB") riders within our variable annuities, which is referred to as "GDB derivatives results"; change in the fair value of the emb edded derivatives of our guaranteed living benefit (GLB) riders within our variable annuities accounted for under the Derivatives and Hedging and the Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topics of the FASB ASC (embedded derivative reserves), net of the change in the fair value of the derivatives we own to hedge the changes in the embedded derivative reserves, the net of which is referred to as GLB net derivative results; and changes in the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities related to index call options we may purchase in the future to hedge contract holder index allocations applicable to future reset periods for our indexed annuity products accounted for under the Derivatives and Hedging and the Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topics of the FASB ASC (indexed annuity forward-starting option); change in reserves accounted for under the Financial Services - Insurance - Claim Costs and Liabilities for Future Policy Benefits Subtop ic of the FASB ASC resulting from benefit ratio unlocking on our GDB and GLB riders ("benefit ratio unlocking"); income (loss) from the initial adoption of new accounting standards; income (loss) from reserve changes (net of related amortization) on business sold through reinsurance; gain (loss) on early extinguishment of debt; losses from the impairment of intangible assets; and income (loss) from discontinued operations.
The earnings used to calculate ROE, as used in the earnings release, are income (loss) from operations.  Income (loss) from operations is an internal measure used by the company in the management of its operations.  Management believes that this performance measure explains the results of the company's ongoing businesses in a manner that allows for a better understanding of the underlying trends in the company's current business because the excluded items are unpredictable and not necessarily indicative of current operating fundamentals or future performance of the business segments, and, in most instances, decisions regarding these items do not necessarily relate to the operations of the individual segments.
The company uses its prevailing corporate federal income tax rate of 35% while taking into account any permanent differences for events recognized differently in its financial statements and federal income tax returns when reconciling non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measure.
 
 
 
 
7
 
Definition of Book Value Per Share Excluding AOCI
Book value per share excluding AOCI is calculated based upon a non-GAAP financial measure. It is calculated by dividing (a) stockholders' equity excluding AOCI and Series B preferred stock balances as it is non-convertible (issued and sold to the U.S. Treasury in connection with the Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program as part of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008), by (b) common shares outstanding, assuming conversion of Series A preferred shares. We provide book value per share excluding AOCI to enable investors to analyze the amount of our net worth that is primarily attributable to our business operations. Management believes book value per share excluding AOCI is useful to investors because it eliminates the effect of items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period, primarily based on chan ges in interest rates.  Book value per share is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  A reconciliation of book value per share to book value per share excluding AOCI as of  March 31, 2010 and 2009 is set forth below.
 
 
 
In those periods with a loss from continuing operations, shares used in the earnings per share calculation represent basic shares, since using diluted shares would have been anti-dilutive.  This same concept applies to our income from operations as well.
(1)  
 
8
 
Forward Looking Statements  Cautionary Language
Certain statements made in this release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("PSLRA").  A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: "believe", "anticipate", "expect", "estimate", "project", "will", "shall" and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance.  In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in Lincolns businesses, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results, and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings.  Lincoln claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements.  Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Lincoln's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact the business of Lincoln's subsidiaries and Lincolns financial performance. Moreover, Lincoln and its subsidiaries operates in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on business of Lincoln's subsidiaries or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, Lincoln disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this release.
 
9
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


