FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20100104165622.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
January 4, 2010
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
                  Lincoln National Corporation              
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
 
(484) 583-1400
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.                      Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On January 4, 2010, Lincoln National Corporation and its wholly owned subsidiary, Lincoln National Investment Companies, or we, us, our or the Sellers, completed the sale of the outstanding capital stock of Delaware Management Holdings, Inc., our subsidiary, or Delaware, to Macquarie Affiliated Managers (USA) Inc. or MAM (USA), pursuant to the previously disclosed Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of August 18, 2009.   Delaware provides investment products and services to individuals and institutions.  MAM (USA) is a  subsidiary of Macquarie Group Limited, which is a global provider of banking, financial, advisory, investment and funds management services.  We received cash consideration at closing of $451.8 million.  The closing purchase price is subject to post-closing adjustments, including an adjustment based on the final closing balance sheet as determined under the Purchase and Sale Agreement.
In addition, certain of our subsidiaries, including The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company (LNL), our primary insurance subsidiary, have entered into investment advisory agreements with Delaware dated January 4, 2010, pursuant to which Delaware will continue to manage the majority of the general account insurance assets of the subsidiaries. The investment advisory agreements will have ten-year terms, and we may terminate them without cause, subject to purchase price adjustment of up to $84 million in the event that all of the agreements with our subsidiaries are terminated.  The amount of the potential adjustment will decline on a pro rata basis over the ten-year term of the advisory agreements.
   
On January 4, 2010, we issued a press release announcing the foregoing transaction.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Certain statements made in this Form 8-K and in other written or oral statements made by us or on our behalf are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA).  A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will, shall and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance.  In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in our business, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings.  We claim the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
 
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements.  Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive.  Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include additional factors that could impact our business and financial performance.  Moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing and competitive environment.  New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
 
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.  Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.  In addition, we disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this Form 8-K.
 
 
Item 9.01.                            Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  January 4, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Lincoln Financial Group (NYSE: LNC) today announced that Macquarie Group (ASX: MQG) has completed its acquisition of Delaware Management Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Delaware Investments) for $451.8 million in cash, subject to customary post-closing adjustments.
PHILADELPHIA, January 4, 2010
Delaware Investments was a wholly owned subsidiary of Lincoln Financial, focused on asset management. In connection with the sale agreement, Delaware Investments will continue to manage Lincoln Financial general account insurance assets under a long-term contract, and will provide additional sub-advisory services. Lincoln Financial remains committed to providing access to high-quality asset management services by selecting best-in-class sub-advisors for its retirement and insurance products.
Proceeds of the sale will be used for general corporate purposes.
About Lincoln Financial Group
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in the Philadelphia region, the companies of Lincoln Financial Group had assets under management of $137 billion as of September 30, 2009. Through its affiliated companies, Lincoln Financial Group offers: annuities; life, group life and disability insurance; 401(k) and 403(b) plans; and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services. For more information, including a copy of our most recent SEC reports containing our balance sheets, please visit www.LincolnFinancial.com.
 
 
 
 
 


