FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20100107150450.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
150 N. Radnor Chester Road, Radnor, PA 19087
(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
 (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
 (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On December 31, 2009, Lincoln National Corporations (LNC) newly formed, indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, Lincoln Reinsurance Company of Vermont I (LRCVI) and its direct parent Lincoln Financial Holdings, LLC II (LFHII and together with LRCVI, the Reimbursement Parties), entered into a Reimbursement Agreement (the Reimbursement Agreement), with Credit Suisse AG, New York Branch, as issuing lender, lender and administrative agent thereunder (Credit Suisse). Under the Reimbursement Agreement, on December 31, 2009, Credit Suisse issued a $550 million 10-year  letter of credit (the LC) for the benefit of LNCs wholly owned subsidiary, The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company (LNL). The LC was issued to support certain obligations of LRCVI to provide collateral to LNL for a portion of reserves related to level premium term life insurance policies reinsured by LRCVI from LNL under an indemnity reinsurance agreement, effective as of December 31, 2009.  We estimate that the transactions contemplated by the indemnity reinsurance agreement and Reimbursement Agreement will result in approximately $400 million of initial statutory capital relief to LNL as of the year ended December 31, 2009.  The estimated annual expense under generally accepted accounting principles is $10 million, after-tax.
Pursuant to the terms of the Reimbursement Agreement, in the event amounts are drawn under the LC by LNL, the Reimbursement Parties, jointly and severally, will be obligated, subject to certain limited conditions, to reimburse Credit Suisse for the amount of any such drawn amount (including interest thereon). The Reimbursement Agreement is non-recourse to LNC and LNL, meaning that neither is liable to Credit Suisse to reimburse any drawn amounts (or interest thereon); provided, however that LNC has agreed, pursuant to the terms of a fee letter with Credit Suisse, to be severally and jointly liable with the Reimbursement Parties for the payment of LC fees. In connection with the Reimbursement Agreement, each of the Reimbursement Parties has collateralized their obligations to Credit Suisse by granting it a security interest in all of their respective assets.
On January 7, 2010, we issued a press release describing the transaction, which is filed as exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Forward Looking Statements  Cautionary Language
Certain statements made in this press release are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("PSLRA").  A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: "believe", "anticipate", "expect", "estimate", "project", "will", "shall" and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance.  In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in our businesses, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results, and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings.  Lincoln claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements.  Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, we disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  January 7, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
PHILADELPHIA, January 7, 2010  Lincoln National Corp. (NYSE:LNC) today announced that it and certain of its subsidiaries have entered into a $550 million, 10-year letter of credit transaction with Credit Suisse AG to support regulatory capital requirements for its life insurance business.  The transaction is expected to provide approximately $400 million of initial statutory capital relief as of December 31, 2009 to Lincolns primary insurance subsidiary, The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company.  The estimated annual GAAP expense is $10 million, after-tax.
We are pleased to have executed on a comprehensive term life reserve transaction of this size and duration, said Fred Crawford, executive vice president and chief financial officer.  This transaction represents a significant step forward on executing our long-term capital management plan supporting the life business and one of several actions taken in 2009 to fortify our overall capital position heading into 2010.
 
About Lincoln Financial Group
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in the Philadelphia region, the companies of Lincoln Financial Group had assets under management of $137 billion as of September 30, 2009. Through its affiliated companies, Lincoln Financial Group offers: annuities; life, group life and disability insurance; 401(k) and 403(b) plans; and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services. For more information, including a copy of our most recent SEC reports containing our balance sheets, please visit .
www.LincolnFinancial.com
 
 
 
 
 
Forward Looking Statements  Cautionary Language
 
 
Certain statements made in this release are "forward-looking statements." Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others, deterioration in general economic or business conditions; continued credit market illiquidity; lowering of one or more of Lincoln's debt ratings issued by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations; lowering of one or more of the insurer financial strength ratings of Lincoln's insurance subsidiaries; legislative and regulatory changes and proceedings; changes in interest rates; sudden or prolonged declines in the equity markets; and deviation in actual experience regarding future persistency, mortality, morbidity, interest rates or equity market returns from Lincoln's assumptions used in pricing its products, in establishing related insurance reserves, and in the amortization of intangibles that may result in an increase in reserves and a decrease in net income. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Lincoln's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009, annual report on Form 10-K, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact Lincoln's business and financial performance.
 


