FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20110531143950.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
       (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
      (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
On May 26, 2011, the shareholders approved an amendment to Lincoln National Corporations (LNC) Restated Articles of Incorporation allowing shareholders to amend the bylaws.  The amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation becomes effective upon filing with the Secretary of State of Indiana.
On May 26, 2011, subsequent to the shareholder approval of the amendment to LNCs Restated Articles of Incorporation, a corresponding amendment to Article IX of LNCs Amended and Restated Bylaws (the Bylaws), allowing for shareholders to amend the Bylaws, became effective.  Both the amendment to LNCs Restated Articles of Incorporation and to LNCs Bylaws provide that Sections 2, 5, 10, 11, 12 and 13 of Article I, Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 10 of Article II, and all sections of Articles VII, VIII and IX of the Bylaws may only be amended by the affirmative vote of the holders of three-fourths (3/4) or more of the combined voting power of LNCs outstanding shares.
A copy of the Articles of Amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1, and a copy of the amendment to the Bylaws is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2.
Item 5.07.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
(a)  The 2011 annual meeting of shareholders of LNC was held on May 26, 2011.
(b)  Shareholders voted on the matters set forth below.
  Election of Directors
Item 1.
The nominees for election to the Board of Directors were elected, each for a three-year term.  For each nominee, the votes cast for, against, abstentions, and broker non-votes were as follows:
  Ratification of Auditors
Item 2.
The proposal to ratify the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as LNCs independent registered public accounting firm for 2011 was approved.  The votes cast for and against this proposal, as well as the abstentions were as follows:
There were no broker non-votes for this item.
 
 
 
 
 
  Approval of Amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation of LNC
Item 3.
The proposal to approve an amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation of LNC to allow shareholder to amend the Bylaws was approved.  The votes cast for and against this proposal, as well as the abstentions were as follows:
There were no broker non-votes for this item.
  Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation
Item 4.
The proposal to approve, on an advisory basis, the compensation of LNCs executive officers named in the proxy statement for the 2011 annual meeting of shareholders was approved.  The votes cast for and against this proposal, as well as the abstentions, were as follows:
 
  Advisory Vote regarding the Frequency of Future Advisory Votes on Executive Compensation
Item 5.
The proposal on the frequency of future advisory vote on the compensation of LNCs named executive officers received the following votes:
 
 
(d)  A majority of the votes cast by shareholders voted, on an advisory basis, in favor of holding future advisory votes on the compensation of named executive officers on an annual basis.  Consistent with these results, the Board of Directors has determined that advisory votes on the compensation of named executive officers will be submitted to shareholders on an annual basis.
 
 
Item 9.01.                            Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION
 
By        
/s/ Randal J. Freitag
Name:  Randal J. Freitag
Title:    Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
 
Date:  May 31, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
 
The undersigned officer of Lincoln National Corporation (the Corporation), a corporation existing pursuant to the Indiana Business Corporation Law, as amended (the Act), desiring to give notice of corporate action effectuating the amendment of its Articles of Incorporation, hereby sets forth the following facts:
The name of the Corporation is Lincoln National Corporation.  The date of incorporation of the Corporation is January 5, 1968.
Article IV, of the Restated Articles of Incorporation is hereby amended to allow shareholders to amend the bylaws by adding the heading Section 1 to the section titled Shares of Subsidiary Stock and adding new section 2 as follows:
No shares of the Common Stock of The Lincoln National Life Insurance Company owned by the Corporation shall be sold, leased, exchanged, mortgaged, pledged, or otherwise disposed of except by the vote of the holders of three-fourths of the shares of the Corporation outstanding and entitled to vote thereon at an annual or special meeting of the shareholders held upon notice which includes notice of the proposed sale, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, or other disposition.
Section 1.  
Shares of Subsidiary Stock.
 
The bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed and new bylaws may be made by a majority of the whole board of directors at any regular or special meeting of the board of directors.  Any bylaws made by the directors under the powers conferred hereby may be altered, amended or repealed by the directors or shareholders, provided, however, that no bylaw may be adopted that is inconsistent with the Indiana Business Corporation Law, as the same may be amended from time to time.  Notwithstanding the foregoing and anything in these Articles of Incorporation to the contrary, Sections 2, 5, 10, 11, 12 and 13 of Article I, Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 10 of Article II, and all sections of Articles VII, VIII and IX of the bylaws of the Corporation shall not be altered, amended or repealed by the shareholders and no provision inconsistent therewith shall be adopted without either:
Section 2.  
Amendment of the Bylaws
.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
a.
 
the approval of the board of directors, or
 
 
b.
 
at any regular or special meeting of the shareholders upon the affirmative vote of the holders of three-fourths (3/4) or more of the combined voting power of the outstanding shares of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors if notice of such alteration, amendment or repeal is contained in the notice of such meeting.
 
Section 1.                      This amendment was adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation on February 23, 2011, for approval by the shareholders at the Annual Meeting on May 26, 2011, on which date the shareholders approved adoption of this amendment.
The manner of adoption of the foregoing amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation and the vote by which it was adopted constitute full legal compliance with the provisions of the Act, the Articles of Incorporation and the Bylaws of the Corporation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I hereby verify subject to the penalties of perjury, that the statements contained herein are true, this 26th day of May, 2011.
Lincoln National Corporation
By:
/s/ Dennis R. Glass
Name: Dennis R. Glass
Title:   President and Chief Executive Officer
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
.
 
 
 
These bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed and new bylaws may be made by a majority of the whole board of directors at any regular or special meeting of the board of directors.  
Any bylaws made by the directors under the powers conferred hereby may be altered, amended or repealed by the directors or shareholders, provided, however, that no bylaw may be adopted that is inconsistent with the Indiana Business Corporation Law, as the same may be amended from time to time.  Notwithstanding the foregoing and anything in these Bylaws or the Articles of Incorporation to the contrary, Sections 2, 5, 10, 11, 12 and 13 of Article I, Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 10 of Article II, and all sections of Articles VII, VIII and IX of these bylaws shall not be altered, amended or repealed by the shareholders and no provision inconsistent therewith shall be adopted without either:
 
 
(2)
 
at any regular or special meeting of the shareholders upon the affirmative vote of the holders of three-fourths (3/4) or more of the combined voting power of the outstanding shares of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors if notice of such alteration, amendment or repeal is contained in the notice of such meeting.
 
 
 


