FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20111115081654.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 15, 2011, we posted slides to be used in connection with our 2011 Conference for Investors and Bankers, a copy of which are attached as Exhibit 99.1 and are incorporated herein by reference.
The Conference for Investors and Bankers is being held on Tuesday, November 15, 2011, beginning at approximately 8:30 a.m. (EST).  Interested persons are invited to listen through the internet, either live or through on-demand replay.  The replay will be available for approximately one year beginning November 16, 2011.  Please visit www.lincolnfinancial.com/webcast at least fifteen minutes prior to the event to register, download and install any necessary streaming media software.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On November 9, 2011, the Board of Directors of Lincoln National Corporation (LNC, we, us, or our), upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, amended the LNC Executives Severance Benefit Plan (the Severance Plan).  The amendment eliminates the provision for payment of an excise tax gross-up in severance situations, within two years after a change of control of LNC, for all current and future executive officers effective immediately.  The rationale for this change was to update our Severance Plan with respect excise tax gross-ups to make it consistent with current best practices in the areas of executive compensation and corporate governance.
Prior to the amendment, the excise tax gross-up provision provided for us to reimburse the executive officers in the event they became subject to the excise tax under section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, with respect to the payments and benefits to be received under the Severance Plan.  Additionally, the amendment adds a provision applicable to all Severance Plan participants the reduction of payments to any individual under the Severance Plan if it is determined that the net after-tax amount to be received by the participant after the reduction would be greater than the net after-tax amount that the participant would receive without the reduction.
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
The response to Item 2.02 is hereby incorporated by reference in answer to this Item 7.01.
Certain statements made in this report and in other written or oral statements made by us or on our behalf are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (PSLRA).  A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like:  believe, anticipate, expect, estimate, project, will, shall and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance.  In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in our businesses, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings.  We claim the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements.  Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements, include, among others:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive.  Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission include additional factors that could affect our business and financial performance.  Moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing and competitive environment.  New risk factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
Further, it is not possible to assess the effect of all risk factors on our businesses or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements.  Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results.  In addition, we disclaim any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date:  November 15, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


