FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20110202161050.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 2, 2011, the registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2010, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The registrants statistical supplement for the quarter ended December 31, 2010, is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference, and a general account supplement as of December 31, 2010, is attached as Exhibit 99.3 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information, including exhibits attached hereto, furnished under this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are being furnished with this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION
 
By           
/s/ Douglas N. Miller
Name:     Douglas N. Miller
Title:       Vice President and
Chief Accounting Officer
 
Date:  February 2, 2011
 
 
 
 

 
                         NEWS RELEASE
 Lincoln Financial Group (NYSE:LNC) today reported net income of $196 million, or $0.60 of net income per diluted share, for the fourth quarter of 2010. By comparison, net income for the fourth quarter of 2009 was $102 million, or $0.27 per diluted share available to common stockholders. For the full year of 2010, net income was $980 million, or $2.54 per diluted share available to common stockholders, versus a net loss of $485 million, or a loss of $1.85 per share available to common stockholders, in 2009.
Philadelphia, PA, February 2, 2011
For the fourth quarter of 2010 income from operations was $266 million, or $0.82 per diluted share, compared to $297 million, or $0.90 per diluted share available to common stockholders, in the fourth quarter of 2009.  Earnings this quarter included a charge of $41 million, or $0.13 per share associated with litigation and settlement expenses.  This charge was partially offset by $9 million, or $0.03 per share of net positive items in the quarter, including better than expected investment income results.  For the full year of 2010, income from operations reached $1.0 billion, or $3.13 per diluted share available to common stockholders, compared to $943 million, or $3.18 per diluted share available to common stockholders, in 2009.
 
 
The fourth quarter caps a year of solid growth in operating revenues and income from operations, which showcase the earnings power of our franchise, said Dennis R. Glass, president and chief executive officer. With a strong, flexible capital structure in place, healthy retirement account balances going into the year, and much of the noise from the crisis behind us, we believe Lincoln is well-positioned to deliver value to our shareholders in 2011.
 
1
 
:
Fourth Quarter 2010 Operating Highlights
Full Year 2010 Operating Highlights
Fourth Quarter 2010  Segment Results
Retirement Solutions
Individual Annuities
The Individual Annuities segment reported income from operations of $123 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 versus income from operations of $120 million in the year-ago period, reflecting a 16% increase in the average daily variable annuity account values. The current quarter included net positive items of $2 million including $6 million of alternative investment income and prepayment and make whole premiums in excess of expected levels partially offset by higher DAC amortization.  The 2009 quarter included net positive items of approximately $19 million, after tax.
Gross annuity deposits in the fourth quarter were $2.6 billion, up 5% from the prior years quarter. For the full year, gross deposits were $10.7 billion versus $10.4 billion in 2009, and net flows were $3.6 billion compared to $3.9 billion in 2009.
Variable annuity deposits in the quarter of $2.2 billion were up 7% over the prior-year quarter reflecting improved wholesaler productivity and channel expansion.
 
2
 
Defined Contribution
Defined Contribution reported income from operations of $33 million, flat with the prior-year quarter.  The current quarter included net negative items of $3 million. Better than expected alternative investment income and prepayment and make whole premiums of $4 million after-tax was offset by negative $7 million after tax of various items, primarily DAC unlocking.
 
Gross deposits in the quarter of $1.4 billion were up 17% versus the prior-year quarter driven by strong new sales in both our mid-to-large case market and our small case market.  Total net flows in the current quarter were a negative $304 million as compared to a negative $62 million in the 2009 quarter, driven primarily by a large plan termination.  For the full year, gross deposits were $5.3 billion versus $5.0 billion in 2009, and net flows were a negative $291 million versus $995 million in 2009.
Insurance Solutions
Life Insurance
Life Insurance income from operations was $166 million, compared to $158 million in the fourth quarter of 2009.  The current quarters results included net positive items totaling $10 million, primarily attributable to alternative investment income and prepayment and make whole premiums in excess of expected levels.
Life insurance sales of $206 million increased 6% over the prior-year quarter reflecting strong double-digit sales increases of and increased production in our Executive Benefits division. Full-year life insurance sales were $637 million, up 4% year-over-year.
MoneyGuard
Group Protection
For the fourth quarter, Group Protections income from operations was $18 million, compared to $30 million in the prior-year period.
The non-medical loss ratio of 76% in the current quarter compared to 69% in the fourth quarter of 2009 and 79% in the third quarter 2010.
Net earned premiums for the fourth quarter were $424 million, up 7% year over year. Quarterly sales totaled $156 million versus $167 million in 2009. For the full year, net earned premiums were $1.7 billion versus $1.6 billion in 2009, and annualized sales were $353 million compared to $360 million.
 
3
 
 
Other Operations
The operating loss in Other Operations was $74 million in the quarter versus a loss of $44 million in the prior-year quarter. The current quarter included a $41 million charge primarily related to the settlement of our previously disclosed litigation with Transamerica.
Realized Gains and Losses
In the quarter, insurance general account realized losses and impairments, net of gains, totaled $83 million pre-tax, compared to $159 million in prior-year quarter.
Unrealized Gains and Losses
The company reported a net unrealized gain of approximately $2.9 billion, pre tax, on its available-for-sale securities at December 31, 2010.  This compares to a net unrealized loss position of $43 million at December 31, 2009.
Capital
During the quarter, the company completed a series of capital-related transactions:
Book Value
As of December 31, 2010, the book value per share of common stock, including accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI), was $40.54 compared to $36.02 a year ago. Book value per share, excluding AOCI, was $38.17, compared to $36.89 a year ago.
 
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, and actual results may differ materially, especially given the current economic and credit conditions. Please see the Forward Looking Statements  Cautionary Language that follow for additional factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. 
 
4
 
 
The tables attached to this release define and reconcile income from operations, return on equity (ROE), and book value per share excluding AOCI, non-GAAP measures, to net income, ROE, and book value per share including AOCI calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Lincoln Financial Group will discuss the companys fourth quarter results with investors in a conference call beginning at 1:00 p.m. (ET) on Thursday, February 3, 2011. Interested persons are invited to listen through the internet. Please go to at least fifteen minutes prior to the event to register, download and install any necessary streaming media software. Interested persons may also listen to the call by dialing the following numbers:
www.LincolnFinancial.com/webcast
Dial:        (877) 776-4049 (Domestic)
(914) 495-8602 (International)
- Ask for the Lincoln National Conference Call.
The company will also post its fourth quarter 2010 statistical supplement and a general account supplement on its Web site, .
www.LincolnFinancial.com/earnings
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in the Philadelphia region, the companies of Lincoln Financial Group had assets under management of $157 billion as of December 31, 2010. Through its affiliated companies, Lincoln Financial Group offers: annuities; life, group life and disability insurance; 401(k) and 403(b) plans; savings plans; and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services. For more information, including a copy of our most recent SEC reports containing our balance sheets, please visit .
www.LincolnFinancial.com
Contacts:       Jim Sjoreen                                                                  Laurel OBrien
                        484 583-1420                                                               484 583-1735
Investor Relations                                                     Media Relations
Investorrelations@LFG.com                                    mediarelations@LFG.com
 
5
 
Definition of Income (Loss) from Operations and Return on Equity
Income (loss) from operations and return on equity, as used in the earnings release, are non-GAAP financial measures and are not substitutes for net income (loss) and ROE, calculated using GAAP measures.  We exclude the after-tax effects of the following items from GAAP net income (loss) to arrive at income (loss) from operations: realized gains and losses associated with the following ("excluded realized gain (loss)"): sale or disposal of securities; impairments of securities; change in the fair value of derivative investments; embedded derivatives within certain reinsurance arrangements and the change in the fair value of our trading securities; change in the fair value of the derivatives we own to hedge our guaranteed death benefit ("GDB") riders within our variable annuities, which is referred to as "GDB derivatives resul ts"; change in the fair value of the embedded derivatives of our guaranteed living benefit (GLB) riders within our variable annuities accounted for under the Derivatives and Hedging and the Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topics of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) (embedded derivative reserves), net of the change in the fair value of the derivatives we own to hedge the changes in the embedded derivative reserves, the net of which is referred to as GLB net derivative results; and changes in the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities related to index call options we may purchase in the future to hedge contract holder index allocations applicable to future reset periods for our indexed annuity products accounted for under the Derivatives and Hedging and the Fair Value Measurements and Discl osures Topics of the FASB ASC (indexed annuity forward-starting option); change in reserves accounted for under the Financial Services - Insurance - Claim Costs and Liabilities for Future Policy Benefits Subtopic of the FASB ASC resulting from benefit ratio unlocking on our GDB and GLB riders ("benefit ratio unlocking"); income (loss) from the initial adoption of new accounting standards; income (loss) from reserve changes (net of related amortization) on business sold through reinsurance; gain (loss) on early extinguishment of debt; losses from the impairment of intangible assets; and income (loss) from discontinued operations.
TM
Return on equity measures how efficiently we generate profits from the resources provided by our net assets.  Return on equity is calculated by dividing annualized net income (loss) by average equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ("AOCI").  Management evaluates return on equity by both including and excluding average goodwill within average equity.
The earnings used to calculate ROE, as used in the earnings release, are net income (loss) and income (loss) from operations.  Income (loss) from operations is an internal measure used by the company in the management of its operations.  Management believes that this performance measure explains the results of the company's ongoing businesses in a manner that allows for a better understanding of the underlying trends in the company's current business because the excluded items are unpredictable and not necessarily indicative of current operating fundamentals or future performance of the business segments, and, in most instances, decisions regarding these items do not necessarily relate to the operations of the individual segments.
The company uses its prevailing corporate federal income tax rate of 35% while taking into account any permanent differences for events recognized differently in its financial statements and federal income tax returns when reconciling non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measure.
 
6
 
 
 
7
 
Definition of Book Value Per Share Excluding AOCI
Book value per share excluding AOCI is calculated based upon a non-GAAP financial measure. It is calculated by dividing (a) stockholders' equity excluding AOCI and Series B preferred stock balances as it is non-convertible (issued and sold to the U.S. Treasury in connection with the Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program as part of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008), by (b) common shares outstanding, assuming conversion of Series A preferred shares. We provide book value per share excluding AOCI to enable investors to analyze the amount of our net worth that is primarily attributable to our business operations.  Management believes book value per share excluding AOCI is useful to investors because it eliminates the effect of items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period, primarily based on changes in interest rates.  Book value per share is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  A reconciliation of book value per share to book value per share excluding AOCI as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 is set forth below.
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
9
 
Forward Looking Statements  Cautionary Language
 
Certain statements made in this press release and in other written or oral statements made by Lincoln or on Lincoln's behalf are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("PSLRA"). A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: "believe", "anticipate", "expect", "estimate", "project", "will", "shall" and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in Lincoln's businesses, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results, and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings. Lincoln claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
 
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
 
 
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on our businesses or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, Lincoln disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this release.
 
 
10
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


