FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20110427161154.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 27, 2011, the registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The registrants statistical supplement for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference, and a general account supplement as of March 31, 2011, is attached as Exhibit 99.3 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information, including exhibits attached hereto, furnished under this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are being furnished with this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION
 
By           
/s/ Douglas N. Miller
Name:     Douglas N. Miller
Title:       Vice President and
Chief Accounting Officer
 
Date:  April 27, 2011
 
 
 
   
 

 
                         NEWS RELEASE
 Lincoln Financial Group (NYSE:LNC) today reported net income for the first quarter of 2011 of $339 million, or $1.05 per diluted share, compared to net income in the first quarter of 2010 of $283 million, or $0.85 per diluted share available to common stockholders.
Philadelphia, PA, April 27, 2011
First quarter income from operations was $349 million, or $1.08 per diluted share, compared to $276 million, or $0.83 per diluted share available to common stockholders, in the first quarter of 2010.
 
 
First quarter operating results continued our quarterly trend of strong sales and margins, and growing account balances stemming from positive net flows and rising equity markets, said President and CEO Dennis R. Glass. The increased base of ongoing operating income was added to by extra investment earnings and positive mortality fluctuations, resulting in a very good earnings start for the year.
:
First Quarter 2011 Operating Highlights
 
 
1
 
 
The quarter included better than expected investment income of $26 million from alternative investments and prepayment premiums, $13 million of favorable mortality fluctuations and $7 million of other items.
First Quarter 2011  Segment Results
Retirement Solutions
Individual Annuities
The Individual Annuities segment reported income from operations of $147 million in the first quarter of 2011 versus income from operations of $119 million in the year-ago period, reflecting a 14% increase in annuity account values.
Total annuity deposits of $2.6 billion were up 16% over the prior-year quarter reflecting strong double digit sales increases in both variable and fixed indexed annuities. Total net flows in the current quarter were $483 million as compared to $575 million in the 2010 quarter.
The quarter included better than expected investment income of $6 million from alternative investments and prepayment premiums, $7 million of favorable mortality and $5 million of other items.
Defined Contribution
Defined Contribution reported income from operations of $49 million, versus income from operations of $36 million for the same period a year ago, reflecting a 10% increase in account values.
Gross deposits of $1.3 billion were up 3% versus the prior-year quarter.  Total net flows in the current quarter were $134 million as compared to $109 million in the 2010 quarter.
The quarter included better than expected investment income of $7 million from alternative investments and prepayment premiums and $2 million of other items.
Insurance Solutions
Life Insurance
Life Insurance income from operations was $166 million, compared to $137 million in the first quarter of 2010.
Life insurance sales of $159 million increased 12% over the prior-year quarter.  Life insurance in force of $567 billion grew 4% and account values of $34 billion increased 7% over the prior year quarter.
 
 
2
 
 
The quarter included better than expected investment income of $8 million primarily from alternative investments and a $6 million favorable mortality fluctuation.
Group Protection
For the first quarter, Group Protections income from operations was $24 million, compared to $21 million in the prior-year period.
The non-medical loss ratio of 74% in the current quarter declined from 75% in the first quarter of 2010 and 76% in the fourth quarter 2010.
Non-medical net earned premiums were $403 million in the first quarter, up 7% over the year-ago period. Annualized sales of $45 million decreased 28% year-over-year due to challenging market conditions.
The current quarter benefited from $5 million of several favorable items relative to expectations.
Other Operations
The operating loss in Other Operations of $37 million in the quarter was flat compared to the prior-year quarter.
Realized Gains and Losses
In the quarter, net realized losses and impairments totaled $6 million, pre-DAC and pre-tax, compared to a loss of $59 million in prior-year quarter.
Unrealized Gains and Losses
The company reported a net unrealized gain of approximately $2.8 billion, pre tax, on its available-for-sale securities at March 31, 2011.  This compares to a net unrealized gain of $1.2 billion at March 31, 2010.
Stock Repurchase
During the quarter the company repurchased 2.4 million shares of stock at a cost of $75 million.
 
 
3
 
 
Book Value
As of March 31, 2011, the book value per share of common stock, including accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI), was $41.74 up 9% from $38.19 a year ago. Book value per share, excluding AOCI, was $39.24 up 6% from $37.19 a year ago.
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, and actual results may differ materially, especially given the current economic and credit conditions. Please see the Forward Looking Statements  Cautionary Language that follow for additional factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. 
The tables attached to this release define and reconcile income from operations, return on equity (ROE), and book value per share excluding AOCI, non-GAAP measures, to net income, ROE, and book value per share including AOCI calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Lincoln Financial Group will discuss the companys first quarter results with investors in a conference call beginning at 11:00 a.m. (ET) on Thursday, April 28, 2011. Interested persons are invited to listen through the internet. Please go to at least fifteen minutes prior to the event to register, download and install any necessary streaming media software. Interested persons may also listen to the call by dialing the following numbers:
www.LincolnFinancial.com/webcast
Dial:        (877) 776-4049 (Domestic)
(914) 495-8602 (International)
- Ask for the Lincoln National Conference Call.
The company will also post its first quarter 2011 statistical supplement and a general account supplement on its Web site, .
www.LincolnFinancial.com/earnings
 
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates. With headquarters in the Philadelphia region, the companies of Lincoln Financial Group had assets under management of $162 billion as of March 31, 2011. Through its affiliated companies, Lincoln Financial Group offers: annuities; life, group life, disability and dental insurance; 401(k) and 403(b) plans; savings plans; and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services. For more information, including a copy of our most recent SEC reports containing our balance sheets, please visit .
www.LincolnFinancial.com
 
 
4
 
Contacts:         Jim SjoreenLaurel OBrien
   
   
   
   
 
484 583-1420        484 583-1735
     
   
   
   
  
  Investor Relations                                                Media Relations
  Investorrelations@LFG.com                               mediarelations@LFG.com
 
 
5
 
Definition of Income (Loss) from Operations and Return on Equity
Income (loss) from operations and return on equity, as used in the earnings release, are non-GAAP financial measures and are not substitutes for net income (loss) and ROE, calculated using GAAP measures.  We exclude the after-tax effects of the following items from GAAP net income (loss) to arrive at income (loss) from operations: realized gains and losses associated with the following ("excluded realized gain (loss)"): sale or disposal of securities; impairments of securities; change in the fair value of derivative investments; embedded derivatives within certain reinsurance arrangements and the change in the fair value of our trading securities; change in the fair value of the derivatives we own to hedge our guaranteed death benefit ("GDB") riders within our variable annuities, which is referred to as "GDB derivatives results"; change in the fair value of the embedded derivatives of our guaranteed living benefit (GLB) riders within our variable annuities accounted for under the Derivatives and Hedging and the Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topics of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) (embedded derivative reserves), net of the change in the fair value of the derivatives we own to hedge the changes in the embedded derivative reserves, the net of which is referred to as GLB net derivative results; and changes in the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities related to index call options we may purchase in the future to hedge contract holder index allocations applicable to future reset periods for our indexed annuity products accounted for under the Derivatives and Hedging and the Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topics of the FASB ASC (indexed annuity forward-starting option); change in reserves accounted for under the Financial Services - Insurance - Claim Costs and Liabilities for Future Policy Benefits Subtopic of the FASB ASC resulting from benefit ratio unlocking on our GDB and GLB riders ("benefit ratio unlocking"); income (loss) from the initial adoption of new accounting standards; income (loss) from reserve changes (net of related amortization) on business sold through reinsurance; gain (loss) on early extinguishment of debt; losses from the impairment of intangible assets; and income (loss) from discontinued operations.
TM
Return on equity measures how efficiently we generate profits from the resources provided by our net assets.  Return on equity is calculated by dividing annualized net income (loss) by average equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ("AOCI").  Management evaluates return on equity by both including and excluding average goodwill within average equity.
The earnings used to calculate ROE, as used in the earnings release, are net income (loss) and income (loss) from operations.  Income (loss) from operations is an internal measure used by the company in the management of its operations.  Management believes that this performance measure explains the results of the company's ongoing businesses in a manner that allows for a better understanding of the underlying trends in the company's current business because the excluded items are unpredictable and not necessarily indicative of current operating fundamentals or future performance of the business segments, and, in most instances, decisions regarding these items do not necessarily relate to the operations of the individual segments.
The company uses its prevailing corporate federal income tax rate of 35% while taking into account any permanent differences for events recognized differently in its financial statements and federal income tax returns when reconciling non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measure.
 
 
6
 
 
7
 
Definition of Book Value Per Share Excluding AOCI
Book value per share excluding AOCI is calculated based upon a non-GAAP financial measure. It is calculated by dividing (a) stockholders' equity excluding AOCI and Series B preferred stock balances as it is non-convertible (issued and sold to the U.S. Treasury in connection with the Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program as part of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008), by (b) common shares outstanding, assuming conversion of Series A preferred shares. We provide book value per share excluding AOCI to enable investors to analyze the amount of our net worth that is primarily attributable to our business operations.  Management believes book value per share excluding AOCI is useful to investors because it eliminates the effect of items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period, primarily based on changes in interest rates.  Book value per share is the most directly comparable GAAP measure.  A reconciliation of book value per share to book value per share excluding AOCI as of March 31, 2011 and 2010 is set forth below.
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
Forward Looking Statements  Cautionary Language
 
Certain statements made in this press release and in other written or oral statements made by Lincoln or on Lincoln's behalf are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("PSLRA"). A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: "believe", "anticipate", "expect", "estimate", "project", "will", "shall" and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in Lincoln's businesses, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results, and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings. Lincoln claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
 
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
 
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on our businesses or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, Lincoln disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this release.
 
 
10
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


