FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20120801161950.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On August 1, 2012, Lincoln National Corporation (the Company) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.  The Companys statistical supplement for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information, including exhibits attached hereto, furnished under this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section.  The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are being furnished with this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION
 
By        
/s/ Douglas N. Miller
Name:  Douglas N. Miller
Title:    Senior Vice President and 
Chief Accounting Officer
 
Date:  August 1, 2012
 
 
 
 

NEWS RELEASE
 Lincoln Financial Group (NYSE:LNC) today reported net income for the second quarter of 2012 of $324 million, or $1.10 per diluted share, compared to net income in the second quarter of 2011 of $304 million, or $0.95 per diluted share.
Philadelphia, PA, August 1, 2012
Second quarter income from operations was $322 million, or $1.09 per diluted share, compared to $326 million, or $1.01 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2011.
 
Second quarter operating results were very good on key measures, including earnings, operating revenue, net flows and return on equity. Our strong performance underscored the strength of our franchise and flexibility of our balance sheet, said Dennis R. Glass, president and CEO of Lincoln Financial Group. Given the macroeconomic environment is likely to remain unsettled, we will continue to take aggressive, proactive steps to control costs, manage capital and returns, and make strategic investments to build our businesses.
 
1
 
 
:
Second Quarter 2012 Highlights
The quarter included $20 million of stronger-than-expected net investment income driven by alternative investments, which affected all of the business segments.  In the second quarter of 2011, net favorable items were approximately $29 million.
Second Quarter 2012  Segment Results
Annuities
The Annuities segment reported income from operations of $158 million in the second quarter of 2012 compared to $145 million in the prior-year quarter.  The quarter included a positive DAC adjustment of $5 million.
Variable annuity deposits of $2.4 billion were up 3% from the prior-year quarter and up 11% from the first quarter.  In the quarter, the company introduced a family of risk-managed Protected Funds that provide an attractive value proposition to clients and lower the risk profile to the company.  Variable annuity net flows were $0.7 billion compared to $0.6 billion in the prior-year quarter.
Fixed annuity deposits of $445 million were down 22% from the second quarter of last year as low interest rates continued to dampen demand.  Fixed annuity net outflows were $32 million compared to net inflows of $134 million in the prior-year quarter.
Account values ended the quarter at $90 billion, up 2% from the prior-year quarter.
Retirement Plan Services
Retirement Plan Services reported income from operations of $38 million compared to $41 million in the prior-year quarter.
 
2
 
 
Investments in talent, technology, and distribution continue to advance business fundamentals. Gross deposits of $1.3 billion were up 8% versus the prior-year quarter and benefitted from an 18% increase in small-case deposits.  Total net flows in the current quarter were $194 million, as compared to net outflows of $178 million in the second quarter of 2011 driven by strong deposit growth and improved retention.
Life Insurance
Life Insurance income from operations was $138 million compared to $136 million in the prior-year quarter.
Life insurance sales of $128 million decreased 18% over the prior-year quarter reflecting the companys continuing efforts to increase sales of products with higher returns including Indexed Universal, Variable Universal Life, and Term.  Sales of these pivot products increased 20% over the prior-year quarter.
Average Life Insurance In-Force of $581 billion grew 2% and average account values of $36 billion increased 5% over the prior-year quarter.
Group Protection
For the second quarter, Group Protection income from operations was $27 million, compared to $26 million in the prior-year period.  The non-medical loss ratio of 72.7% in the current quarter improved  over both the prior-year and the first quarter of 2012 reflecting continued stable results in our Disability line, augmented by strong results in Life and Dental.
Group Protection sales of $89 million increased 33% over the prior-year quarter.  The increase in sales was driven by a 15% increase in Group Protection sales representatives, which contributed to a 20% increase in third-party brokers selling the segments products.  Non-medical net earned premiums were $441 million in the second quarter, up 8% over the prior-year quarter.
Other Operations
The operating loss in Other Operations was $39 million in the quarter versus a loss of $22 million in the prior-year quarter.  The quarter included unfavorable items of approximately $5 million.
Realized Gains and Losses
Realized gains/losses (after-tax) in the quarter included:
 
 
3
 
 
Unrealized Gains and Losses
The company reported a net unrealized gain of $7.8 billion, pre-tax, on its available-for-sale securities as of June 30, 2012, compared to a net unrealized gain of $3.6 billion as of June 30, 2011, and $6.5 billion as of December 31, 2011.
Capital
During the quarter, the company repurchased 6.5 million shares of stock at a cost of $150 million.  On a year-to-date basis, 12.5 million shares have been repurchased at a cost of $300 million.
Book Value
As of June 30, 2012, book value per share of common stock, excluding AOCI, was $38.68 up 5% from $36.73 a year ago.
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, and actual results may differ materially, especially given the current economic and capital markets conditions.  Please see the Forward Looking Statements  Cautionary Language that follow for additional factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. 
The tables attached to this release define and reconcile income from operations, return on equity (ROE), and book value per share excluding AOCI, non-GAAP measures, to net income, ROE, and book value per share including AOCI calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Lincoln Financial Group will discuss the companys second quarter results with investors in a conference call beginning at 1:00 p.m. (ET) on Thursday, August 2, 2012.  Interested persons are invited to listen through the internet.  Please go to at least fifteen minutes prior to the event to register, download and install any necessary streaming media software.  Interested persons may also listen to the call by dialing the following numbers:
www.LincolnFinancial.com/webcast
Dial:        (877) 766-4049 (Domestic)
(914) 495-8602 (International)
- Ask for the Lincoln National Conference Call.
 
4
 
 
The company will also post its second quarter 2012 statistical supplement on its website, .
www.LincolnFinancial.com/earnings
 
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates.  With headquarters in the Philadelphia region, the companies of Lincoln Financial Group had assets under management of $168 billion as of June 30, 2012.  Through its affiliated companies, Lincoln Financial Group offers: annuities; life, group life, disability and dental insurance; 401(k) and 403(b) plans; savings plans; and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services.  For more information, including a copy of our most recent SEC reports containing our balance sheets, please visit .
www.LincolnFinancial.com
Contacts:       Jim Sjoreen                                                                  Michael Arcaro
(484) 583-1420                                                             (484) 583-1799
Investor Relations                                                     Media Relations
Investorrelations@LFG.com                                    michael.arcaro@LFG.com
 
 
5
 
Definition of Income (Loss) from Operations, Operating Revenues and Return on Equity
Income (loss) from operations, operating revenues and return on equity (ROE), as used in the earnings release, are non-GAAP financial measures and do not replace GAAP revenues,  net income (loss) and ROE.  We exclude the after-tax effects of the following items from GAAP net income (loss) to arrive at income (loss) from operations: realized gains and losses associated with the following ("excluded realized gain (loss)"): sale or disposal of securities; impairments of securities; change in the fair value of derivative investments, embedded derivatives within certain reinsurance arrangements and our trading securities; change in the fair value of the derivatives we own to hedge our guaranteed death benefit ("GDB") riders within our variable annuities, which is referred to as "GDB derivatives results"; change in the fair value of the embedded derivatives of our guaranteed living benefit (GLB) riders within our variable annuities accounted for under the Derivatives and Hedging and the Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topics of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) (embedded derivative reserves), net of the change in the fair value of the derivatives we own to hedge the changes in the embedded derivative reserves, the net of which is referred to as GLB net derivative results; and changes in the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities related to index call options we may purchase in the future to hedge contract holder index allocations applicable to future reset periods for our indexed annuity products accounted for under the Derivatives and Hedging and the Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures Topics of the FASB ASC (indexed annuity forward-starting option); change in reserves accounted for under the Financial Services - Insurance - Claim Costs and Liabilities for Future Policy Benefits Subtopic of the FASB ASC resulting from benefit ratio unlocking on our GDB and GLB riders ("benefit ratio unlocking"); income (loss) from the initial adoption of new accounting standards; income (loss) from reserve changes (net of related amortization) on business sold through reinsurance; gain (loss) on early extinguishment of debt; losses from the impairment of intangible assets; and income (loss) from discontinued operations.
Operating revenues represent GAAP revenues excluding the pre-tax effects of the following items, as applicable: excluded realized gain (loss); amortization of deferred front-end loads (DFEL) arising from changes in GDB and GLB benefit ratio unlocking; amortization of deferred gains arising from the reserve changes on business sold through reinsurance; and revenue adjustments from the initial adoption of new accounting standards.
Return on equity measures how efficiently we generate profits from the resources provided by our net assets.  Return on equity is calculated by dividing annualized net income (loss) by average equity, excluding accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) ("AOCI").  Management evaluates return on equity by both including and excluding average goodwill within average equity.
Income (loss) from operations, operating revenues, return on equity (including and excluding average goodwill within average equity), excluding AOCI, using annualized income (loss) from operations and return on capital are financial measures we use to evaluate and assess our results.  Management believes that these performance measures explain the results of the company's ongoing businesses in a manner that allows for a better understanding of the underlying trends in the company's current business because the excluded items are unpredictable and not necessarily indicative of current operating fundamentals or future performance of the business segments, and, in most instances, decisions regarding these items do not necessarily relate to the operations of the individual segments.
The company uses its prevailing corporate federal income tax rate of 35% while taking into account any permanent differences for events recognized differently in its financial statements and federal income tax returns when reconciling non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP measure.
 
 
6
 
Lincoln National Corporation
 
 
7
 
Definition of Book Value Per Share Excluding AOCI
Book value per share excluding AOCI is calculated based upon a non-GAAP financial measure. It is calculated by dividing (a) stockholders' equity excluding AOCI by (b) common shares outstanding, assuming conversion of Series A preferred shares. We provide book value per share excluding AOCI to enable investors to analyze the amount of our net worth that is primarily attributable to our business operations.  Management believes book value per share excluding AOCI is useful to investors because it eliminates the effect of items that can fluctuate significantly from period to period, primarily based on changes in interest rates.  Book value per share is the most directly comparable GAAP measure. A reconciliation of book value per share to book value per share excluding AOCI as of June 30, 2012 and 2011 is set forth below.
 
 
 
 
9
 
Forward Looking Statements  Cautionary Language
 
Certain statements made in this press release and in other written or oral statements made by Lincoln or on Lincoln's behalf are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("PSLRA"). A forward-looking statement is a statement that is not a historical fact and, without limitation, includes any statement that may predict, forecast, indicate or imply future results, performance or achievements, and may contain words like: "believe", "anticipate", "expect", "estimate", "project", "will", "shall" and other words or phrases with similar meaning in connection with a discussion of future operating or financial performance. In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, trends in Lincoln's businesses, prospective services or products, future performance or financial results, and the outcome of contingencies, such as legal proceedings. Lincoln claims the protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements provided by the PSLRA.
 
Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from the results contained in the forward-looking statements. Risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to vary materially, some of which are described within the forward-looking statements include, among others:
 
The risks included here are not exhaustive. Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and other documents filed with the SEC include additional factors which could impact our business and financial performance. Moreover, we operate in a rapidly changing and competitive environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all such risk factors.
 
 
10
 
Further, it is not possible to assess the impact of all risk factors on our businesses or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Given these risks and uncertainties, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. In addition, Lincoln disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this press release.
 
 
11
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2a
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2b
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3
 
 
 
 
Page 4a
 
 
 
 
 
Page 4b
 
 
 
 
Page 5
 
 
 
 
Page 6
 
 
 
 
 
Page 7
 
 
 
 
 
Page 8
 
 
 
 
 
Page 9
 
 
 
 
 
Page 10
 
 
 
 
 
Page 11
 
 
 
 
 
Page 12
 
 
 
 
 
Page 13
 
 
 
 
 
Page 14
 
 
 
 
 
Page 15
 
 
 
 
Page 16
 
 
 
 
Page 17
 
 
 
 
Page 18
 
 
 
 
 
Page 19
 
 
 
 
Page 20
 
 
 
 
 
Page 21
 
 
 
 
 
Page 22
 
 
 
 
Page 23
 
 
 
 
 
Page 24
 
 
 
 
 
Page 25
 
 
 
Page 26
 
 
 
 
Page 27


