FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20121101165140.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
       (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
      (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements
On October 26, 2012, Lincoln National Corporation (the Company) entered into a Phased Retirement Agreement (Retirement Agreement), Agreement, Waiver & General Release (the Release) and Consulting Agreement (collectively the Agreement) with Robert W. Dineen which sets forth the terms and conditions of Mr. Dineens phased retirement from the Company.  As previously announced on October 10, 2012, Mr. Dineen was appointed the Vice Chairman of Lincoln Financial Network.  Mr. Dineen will continue to be employed as an officer of the Company and a member of the Senior Management Committee at his current compensation level through his retirement date of May 1, 2013 (the Retirement Date). Mr. Dineen also signed a Consulting Agreement under which he has agreed to provide consulting services to the Company for the period beginning on May 1, 2013 and ending on April 30, 2014 at a rate of approximately $36,583 per month.  In consideration, Mr. Dineen has agreed to reaffirm the Release or the Consulting Agreement will be null and void.
The Agreement confirms Mr. Dineens entitlement to, certain benefits, including the following:
   In accordance with the Companys Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) Mr. Dineen will continue to be eligible to receive an annual incentive payout for the 2012 performance period at the current target level of $1,146,000 per annum.  Mr. Dineens actual payout under the plan will be based on the achievement of the defined performance measures established by the Compensation Committee at its February 2012 meeting in accordance with the terms of the Lincoln National Corporation 2009 Amended and Restated Incentive Compensation Plan (the ICP).  The Compensation Committee will certify the performance results and approve the final payout amount in 2013, which could be between 0% and 200% of this target.
   In addition, in accordance with the Companys AIP, Mr. Dineen will be eligible to participate in the 2013 AIP and receive a pro-rated annual incentive payout for the 2013 performance period at a target level to be determined by the Compensation Committee.  Mr. Dineens actual payout under the plan will be based on the achievement of the defined performance measures to be established by the Compensation Committee at its first scheduled meeting for 2013 in accordance with the terms of the ICP.  The Compensation Committee will certify the performance results and approve the final payout amount in 2014, which could be between 0% and 200% of his target.
  
   In accordance with the terms of the Companys Long-Term Incentive Award Programs (the LTIP) under the ICP, Mr. Dineen will be eligible to receive a pro-rata award of performance shares for the period through the Retirement Date under the 2011-2013 performance cycle and the 2012-2014 performance cycle.  Mr. Dineens actual payout under the 2011-2013 and 2012-2014 LTIP performance cycles will be based on the achievement of the defined performance measures established by the Compensation Committee in February 2011 and February 2012, respectively, in accordance with the terms of the ICP.  The Compensation Committee will certify the performance results and approve the final payout amounts in 2014 and 2015 respectively, which could be between 0% and 200% of his pro-rated target amount.
   Pursuant to his restricted stock unit award agreements, Mr. Dineens unvested restricted stock units will vest on a pro-rata basis as of the Retirement Date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Pursuant to his option agreements, all of Mr. Dineens unvested stock options will become fully vested as of the Retirement Date and all such options will be exercisable until the earlier of (a) five years from the Retirement Date or (b) expiration of their normal term.
In addition, the Agreement provides for the following:
   In lieu of any award under the Companys 2013 LTIP, Mr. Dineen will receive a one-time cash payment of $84,500 paid in a lump-sum no sooner than six months and one day after the Retirement Date and no later than seven months after the Retirement Date.  This payment will be pro-rated if Mr. Dineen resigns prior to the Retirement Date.
   Mr. Dineen will also receive twenty-four weeks of transition pay paid by-weekly, less taxes and withholding, based on his final rate of base pay, paid commencing no sooner than six months and one day after the Retirement Date and no later than seven months after the Retirement Date.  The payments will cease if Mr. Dineen breaches the restrictive covenants in the Agreement.
  Mr. Dineen will also receive a one-time cash payment of $10,000, less taxes and withholding, paid commencing no sooner than six months and one day after the Retirement Date and no later than seven months after the Retirement Date.
In consideration of the foregoing, Mr. Dineen agreed, among other things, not to compete with the Company or its subsidiaries for a period of twenty-four weeks following the Retirement Date, or solicit employees, agents, brokers, or clients of the Company or its subsidiaries, for a period of two years following the Retirement Date.  Mr. Dineen also agreed not to disclose any of the Companys confidential information and/or trade secrets.
Mr. Dineen has executed the Release which releases the Company and its affiliates and subsidiaries, and each of our and their directors, officers, and certain other persons. Mr. Dineen and the Company also agreed that they will not publicly disparage one another to any third parties.
The foregoing description of the Retirement Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the Retirement Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Item 9.01.                            Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 LINCOLN NATIONAL CORPORATION
   
   
   
   
   
 
 By        
   
   
   
   
   
/s/ Randal J. Freitag
 Name:  Randal J. Freitag
   
   
   
   
   
 Title:    Executive Vice President and
   
   
   
   
   
                                                                                                                                             Chief Financial Officer
   
   
   
   
 
Date:  November 1, 2012
 

Re:        Phased Retirement Agreement
This Phased Retirement Agreement (the Phased Retirement Agreement or Agreement) sets forth the payments and benefits that you will be eligible to receive in exchange for your agreement to abide by certain terms and conditions during and following your phased retirement from the Company (as defined below).  Your execution of this Agreement and the attached Agreement, Waiver & General Release (the Waiver) are a condition of the Companys offer to you of this phased retirement arrangement and the position of Vice Chairman, Lincoln Financial Network.  If you choose not to execute this Phased Retirement Agreement or the attached Waiver, your employment with the Company shall be terminated effective November 1, 2012.  For purposes of this Agreement, the Company or LNC are defined as Lincoln National Corporation, its affiliates and subsidiaries, and each of their directors, officers, representatives, agents, attorneys, employees, successors, and assigns and any other person acting through, by, under or in concert with any of them.
1.
 
As we have discussed and mutually agreed, consistent with your desire to transition from your current employment with the Company, you are electing to voluntarily retire from the Company effective May 1, 2013 (the Retirement Date). The Company will not involuntarily terminate your employment without Cause (as that term is defined below in Paragraph 9) before the Retirement Date.
2.
 
Commencing on November 1, 2012 and continuing until your Retirement Date (the Employment Term) you will assume the role of Vice Chairman of Lincoln Financial Network and continue to be a member of the Companys Senior Management Committee (SMC) reporting to the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.  You will undertake all duties and responsibilities as may be assigned to you, including assisting the Company with your transition from employment, assist in the transition of your former duties to any successor(s), and maintaining the Companys business, relationships, and goodwill, and such other duties as you may be assigned to you from time-to-time.  You agree to execute immediately the Officer Resignation form attached as Exhibit C to this Phased Retirement Agreement and, at or around your Retirement Date, the Officer Resignation form attached as Exhibit 1 to the Waiver.
3.
 
Provided you sign and abide by this Phased Retirement Agreement and the Waiver, you will be entitled to receive the benefits and payments set forth in paragraph 2(b) of the Waiver. In addition, if you sign and return to the Company between April 20, 2013 and May 1, 2013 the Waiver Reaffirmation attached as Exhibit D to this Phased Retirement Agreement, you will be entitled to perform consulting services for the Company, pursuant to and in exchange for the payments provided for under the Consulting Agreement attached as Exhibit A to this Phased Retirement Agreement,for a termbeginning May 1, 2013 and ending on April 30, 2014 (the Consulting Term).  You understand and agree that in the event you do not sign the Waiver Reaffirmation, the Consulting Agreement will not be available to you and will be voided by the Company.  You further understand and agree, except as specifically set forth in this Phased Retirement Agreement, the Waiver, and the Consulting Agreement, you are not entitled to any other compensation or benefits as a result of any services you may perform for the Company.
 
 
4.
 
During the Employment Term, either you or the Company shall have the right to relieve you from active duty at any time.  If either you or the Company exercises the right to relieve you from active duty during the Employment Term, you shall remain an employee of the Company until the end of the Employment Term but you will not be required to and shall not report to the workplace, you will continue to receive your base salary, continue to be eligible for any bonus to which you are or may become entitled, continue to receive employee benefits in which you are enrolled during the Employment Term
 
 
 
 
 
 
and continue to be treated as an active employee of the Company, with all attendant duties of loyalty, confidentiality, non-competition, and non-solicitation.  Any decision by you or the Company to place you in inactive status will not be deemed Cause or voluntary resignation as defined in this Agreement.  You may voluntarily resign your employment or be involuntarily terminated for Cause at any time.  If you voluntarily resign or are terminated for Cause, your Retirement Date will be accelerated to the date of such voluntary resignation or termination for Cause, your employment will terminate, and any further compensation or benefits will cease.
5.
 
Your right to payments and benefits under this Phased Retirement Agreement and the Consulting Agreement (attached as Exhibit A) and the Waiver (attached as Exhibit B) is conditional upon: (a) your continuing compliance with the covenants contained in this Phased Retirement Agreement and in the Waiver; (b) your continuing compliance with all Company policies; (c) your continuing compliance with the Consulting Agreement; and (d) your execution of and continuing compliance with the Waiver.
6.
 
After your Retirement Date, the Company shall have no further obligation to employ you or provide you with any of the compensation and benefits referenced in Paragraph 3, except: (a) insofar as you may be entitled to any previously earned salary and bonus or any payments called for under this Phased Retirement Agreement, (b) any COBRA continuation coverage which you may elect and be eligible for provided you make timely elections and premium payments, (c) any payments required under the terms of the Consulting Agreement attached as Exhibit A to this Agreement, and (d) any equity awards (such as Restricted Stock Awards, Restricted Stock Unit Awards, Stock Option Awards, Stock Appreciation Rights, LTIPs or other incentive awards or bonuses, etc.), which shall vest and be distributed or exercisable in accordance with the terms of applicable plan documents, as they may be amended from time to time, together with any award agreements that you may have received thereunder.
7.
 
During the Employment Term, your grants of equity awards continue to be subject to the Companys share ownership requirements.  Although you are not required to purchase shares of LNC stock, you must retain and hold a percentage of these shares for the specified period of time. You will also continue to be subject to all open window periods, the Companys insider trading policies, and all Company policies applicable to employees.
8.
 
In consideration for your agreement to release claims against the Company, comply with the Non-Disclosure, Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Provisions (as set forth in Paragraphs 14, 15, and 16 of this Phased Retirement Agreement) and your other obligations as set forth in this Phased Retirement Agreement, you will be eligible to receive benefits and payments referenced in Paragraph 3 of this Phased Retirement Agreement.  If you become re-employed by the Company as a regular (other than temporary) employee or if you violate the Non-Disclosure Provision, the Non-Competition Provision, or the Non-Solicitation Provision set forth in this Phased Retirement Agreement, any remaining post-employment payments and benefits under this Phased Retirement Agreement will immediately and permanently cease without further recourse by you. You agree and acknowledge that the consideration set forth in this Phased Retirement Agreement is adequate consideration to support your release of claims, agreement to the Non-Disclosure, Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Provisions, and other obligations.  You further agree and acknowledge that you are not otherwise entitled to all of the consideration set forth in this Phased Retirement Agreement but for your acceptance of the terms and conditions of this Phased Retirement Agreement.  All amounts payable to you under this Phased Retirement Agreement are subject to applicable tax withholdings.  In addition, you are solely responsible for all taxes that may result from your receipt of the amounts payable and benefits to be provided to you, and the Company neither makes nor has made any representation, warranty or guarantee of any federal, state or local tax consequences to you of your receipt of any payment or benefit hereunder, including, but not limited to, under section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
9.
 
Cause shall mean, as determined by the Company in its sole discretion, (a) the conviction of a felony, or other fraudulent or willful misconduct by you that is materially and demonstrably injurious to the business or reputation of the Company, (b) the willful and continued failure by you to substantially perform your duties with the Company (other than such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness), after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to you by the General Counsel of the Company that specifically identifies the manner in which the Company believes that you have not
 
 
 
 
 
 
substantially performed your duties, or (c) your violation of the Non-Disclosure Provision, the Non-Competition Provision, or the Non-Solicitation Provision set forth in this Agreement. Any decision by you or the Company to place you in inactive employment status will not constitute Cause as defined in this Paragraph.
10.
 
If you voluntarily terminate your employment or your employment is terminated for Cause prior to the Retirement Date, your employment shall cease and you shall not be entitled to the payments or other benefits provided in this Agreement, except that you shall receive at least twelve (12) weeks of pay based on your annual base salary at your Retirement Date, less taxes and withholdings, paid bi-weekly commencing on a date no sooner than six (6) months and one (1) day after your Retirement Date, but no later than seven (7) months after your Retirement Date, in consideration for your execution of the Waiver attached as Exhibit B to this Agreement.  You agree and acknowledge that the consideration set forth in this Agreement and in the Waiver attached as Exhibit B to this Agreement is good and valuable consideration sufficient to support your release of claims and other obligations.
11.
 
You agree that you will not, directly or indirectly, disclose the terms of this Agreement to anyone other than your spouse, outplacement consultant, attorney, accountant or tax advisor, except to the extent disclosure is required for accounting or tax reporting purposes, or as otherwise required or allowed by law, at any time prior to disclosure by the Company in any of its required regulatory filings.
12.
 
Due to the knowledge and information you possess and gained as a result of your employment with the Company, during the Employment Term and after the Retirement Date, you hereby agree to make yourself available, at reasonable times, to cooperate, consult, testify, etc. with respect to current and future legal actions, including but not limited to litigation, arbitrations, mediation, administrative and/or regulatory proceedings in which the Company is a party.  The Company will pay you for the reasonable value of your time and reasonable expenses incurred with respect to any action in which you are not a plaintiff, claimant or counterclaimant, with the express understanding that any such payment is not made for or as an inducement to the substance of your testimony.  Any time you spend during the Consulting Term will be compensated solely via the payments called for under the Consulting Agreement attached as Exhibit A to this Agreement.  The Companys only expectation with regard to any testimony is that you testify truthfully.  The parties agree that the reasonable value of your time will be based on an hourly rate derived from your last base salary at the Company.
13.
 
You agree that neither you nor any entity directly or indirectly controlled by you will directly or indirectly participate in a proscribed activity.  A proscribed activity through a date which is two (2) years after your Retirement Date shall mean either (a) soliciting others to invest in the common stock of LNC for the purpose of effecting an acquisition of control of LNC or him/her directly investing in more than one percent (1%) of the common stock of LNC, or (b) using confidential information or trade secrets (as described in Paragraph 14) to assist any person, entity or group of persons which intends to or does attempt to effect an acquisition of control of LNC.  The term control shall be defined for purposes of this paragraph to have the meaning of control contained in Ind. Code Ann. 27-1-23-1(e) [Burns Supplement]. You agree and acknowledge that the injury that would be suffered by the Company as a result of breach of this provision would be irreparable and that an award of monetary damages to the Company for such breach would be an inadequate remedy.  Consequently, the Company shall have the right in addition to any other rights it may have, to obtain injunctive relief from any court of competent jurisdiction to restrain any breach or threatened breach or otherwise to specifically enforce any provision of this paragraph and the Company shall not be obligated to post bond or security in seeking such relief. Without limiting the Companys rights under this paragraph or any other remedies of the Company, if you breach any provisions of this paragraph and the Company obtains a permanent injunction or final judgment that you have violated this paragraph, the Company shall have the additional right to recover from you all reasonable attorneys fees and costs.
14.
 
As a result of your position and your service on the SMC, your positions of President of Lincoln Financial Network, Director and Chief Executive Officer for Lincoln Financial Advisors Corporation and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Lincoln Financial Securities Corporation, and your other positions with the Company, you have been and will continue to be instrumental in developing the strategic direction of the Companys business and have participated in the development of the Companys
 
 
 
 
 
 
overall strategic direction.  Your job duties have included developing and implementing key strategies, managing several organizations through which you have gained an understanding of the business strategies, programs and products provided by the Company, and identifying and developing key personnel for the Company (Job Duties).  In connection with the performance of your Job Duties, you also have developed, obtained or learned specific confidential information and trade secrets which are the property of the Company.  You hereby covenant and agree to use your best efforts and utmost diligence to guard and protect such confidential information and trade secrets and to not use or disclose, or permit to be used or disclosed to any third party by any method whatsoever any such confidential information or trade secrets.  Confidential information or trade secrets shall include, but not be limited to, any and all records, notes, memoranda, data, ideas, processes, methods, devices, programs, computer software, writings, research, personnel information of whatever nature, in the possession or control of the Company which has not or have not been published or disclosed to the general public or which give the Company an opportunity to obtain an advantage over competitors who do not have access to such information.  You agree and acknowledge that the Company has exercised reasonable efforts to secure its confidential information and trade secrets, including, but not limited to, restricting access to them to those the Company employees who need to access such information in the performance of their duties for the Company, enacting and enforcing policies regarding the authorized uses for them, and not disclosing them to third-parties.  You further agree and acknowledge that the Companys trade secrets and confidential information are of value to the Company and were created and maintained at significant expense to the Company.  You agree and acknowledge that the injury that would be suffered by the Company as a result of breach of this provision would be irreparable and that an award of monetary damages to the Company for such breach would be an inadequate remedy.  Consequently, the Company shall have the right in addition to any other rights it may have, to obtain injunctive relief from any court of competent jurisdiction to restrain any breach or threatened breach or otherwise to specifically enforce any provision of this paragraph and the Company shall not be obligated to post bond or security in seeking such relief. Without limiting the Companys rights under this paragraph or any other remedies of the Company, if you breach any provisions of this paragraph and the Company obtains a permanent injunction or final judgment that you have violated this paragraph, the Company shall have the additional right to recover from you all reasonable attorneys fees and costs. (This paragraph is collectively the Non-Disclosure Provision.)
15.
 
During your Employment Term and for a twenty-four (24) week period (168 days) following your Retirement Date, you will not act as a director, officer, employee, agent, consultant or advisor to, nor directly or indirectly become associated with any person, firm, company or corporation whose principal activity is competitive with the Companys business (hereinafter, the Competitive Activity Restriction).  You specifically acknowledge that the geographic region to which this restriction applies is national in scope because that is the region in which the Company competes.  This restriction does not prohibit you from buying, selling or otherwise trading in the securities of any corporation that is listed on any recognized securities exchange, and you may engage in any other business activities not competitive with the Companys business.  The Company will not object to your service on the boards of other companies as a director so long as there is no conflict with the terms of this paragraph.  You agree that you will immediately notify the Company in writing prior to commencing any activity that violates the Competitive Activity Restriction.  You may request a waiver by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company (CEO) of the applicability of this provision to specific activities in which you contemplate engaging, in which case such waiver request will be considered by the CEO in good faith, taking into consideration all of the facts and circumstances.  In the event you violate this Competitive Activity Restriction or fail to pre-notify the Company in writing of any such violation, all future payments and benefits payable under this Agreement shall immediately cease and be forfeited by you.  Additionally, you will be required to tender back to the Company a pro-rata portion of any payments already received pursuant to this Agreement, such pro-rata repayment amount to be calculated using a fraction consisting of the number of days remaining in the non-competition period including and following the first date upon which you violate the Competitive Activity Restriction as the numerator and the number 168 as the denominator. You agree and acknowledge that the injury that would be suffered by the Company as a result of breach of this provision would be irreparable and that an award of monetary damages to the Company for such breach would be an inadequate remedy.  Consequently, the Company shall have the right in addition to any other rights it may have, to obtain injunctive relief from any court of competent jurisdiction to restrain any breach or threatened breach or otherwise to specifically enforce any provision
 
 
 
 
 
 
of this paragraph and the Company shall not be obligated to post bond or security in seeking such relief. Without limiting the Companys rights under this paragraph or any other remedies of the Company, if you breach any provisions of this paragraph and the Company obtains a permanent injunction or final judgment that you have violated this paragraph, the Company shall have the additional right to recover from you all reasonable attorneys fees and costs. (This paragraph is collectively the Non-Competition Provision.)
16.
 
During your Employment Term and for a two (2) year period (730 days) following the Retirement Date, you agree that you will not:  (a) directly or indirectly solicit or endeavor to solicit and/or hire from the Company any person who is currently employed by the Company; (b) directly or indirectly solicit or endeavor to solicit any person, business, or entity that is a customer of the Company; or (c) directly or indirectly solicit or endeavor to solicit any person, business, or entity that is an agent, broker, independent contractor, or financial advisor employed by, contractually affiliated with, or registered with the Company, to terminate their relationship with the Company.  You agree and acknowledge that you have knowledge of the Companys employees, agents, brokers, contractors, and financial planners as a result of the performance of your duties on behalf of the Company as a member of the SMC, and that the scope of the employee/contractor/agent/broker/planner non-solicitation provision is reasonable to protect the Companys legitimate business interests.  You agree and acknowledge that you have knowledge of the Companys customers as a result of the performance of your Job Duties on behalf of the Company as a member of the SMC, and that the scope of the customer non-solicit provision is reasonable to protect the Companys legitimate business interests.  You further acknowledge that the Company would be placed at an unfair competitive disadvantage if you were to violate the terms of this Paragraph.  In the event you violate this restriction, all future payments and benefits payable under Paragraphs 3 and 8 of this Agreement shall immediately cease and be forfeited by you and you will be required to repay to the Company all but twelve (12) weeks of pay based on your annual base salary at your Retirement Date received pursuant to this Agreement. You agree and acknowledge that the injury that would be suffered by the Company as a result of breach of this provision would be irreparable and that an award of monetary damages to the Company for such breach would be an inadequate remedy.  Consequently, the Company shall have the right in addition to any other rights it may have, to obtain injunctive relief from any court of competent jurisdiction to restrain any breach or threatened breach or otherwise to specifically enforce any provision of this paragraph and the Company shall not be obligated to post bond or security in seeking such relief. Without limiting the Companys rights under this paragraph or any other remedies of the Company, if you breach any provisions of this paragraph and the Company obtains a permanent injunction or final judgment that you have violated this paragraph, the Company shall have the additional right to recover from you all reasonable attorneys fees and costs. (This paragraph is collectively the Non-Solicitation Provision.)
17.
 
Regardless of whether you sign this Agreement, and as a condition of receiving the payments set forth in this Agreement, within fourteen (14) days after your Retirement Date, you must return to the Company, , all the Company property, whether in physical or electronic form, including, but not limited to, documents and data (hard copy or electronic), forms (hard copy or electronic), correspondence (hard copy or electronic), access cards, computer programs (hard copy or electronic), memos (hard copy or electronic), disks, computers, and external storage devices, retaining no documents or data except for those related to your compensation information.  To the extent that you have the Companys information on personal electronic devices upon your Retirement Date, you must search, identify, and permanently delete all such Company information. You agree and acknowledge that the injury that would be suffered by the Company as a result of breach of this provision would be irreparable and that an award of monetary damages to the Company for such breach would be an inadequate remedy.  Consequently, the Company shall have the right in addition to any other rights it may have, to obtain injunctive relief from any court of competent jurisdiction to restrain any breach or threatened breach or otherwise to specifically enforce any provision of this paragraph and the Company shall not be obligated to post bond or security in seeking such relief. Without limiting the Companys rights under this paragraph or any other remedies of the Company, if you breach any provisions of this paragraph and the Company obtains an injunction or final judgment that you have violated this paragraph, the Company shall have the additional right to recover from you all reasonable attorneys fees and costs.
retaining no copies
 
18.
 
If you materially breach or violate any provision in this Agreement, the Company shall have the
 
 
 
 
 
 
right to cease any further payments or benefits called for under this Agreement; provided, however, that this Agreement shall otherwise remain in full force and effect and the consideration supporting this Agreement shall be deemed adequate as long as you will have received at least twelve (12) weeks of base salary pursuant to this Agreement.
19.
 
You agree and acknowledge that the injury that would be suffered by the Company as a result of breach of the provisions of Paragraphs 13, 14, 15, 16, and 17 would be irreparable and that an award of monetary damages to the Company for such breach would be an inadequate remedy.  Consequently, the Company shall have the right in addition to any other rights it may have, to obtain injunctive relief from any court of competent jurisdiction to restrain any breach or threatened breach or otherwise to specifically enforce any provision of this Agreement and the Company shall not be obligated to post bond or the security in seeking such relief. Without limiting the Companys rights under this paragraph or any other remedies of the Company, if you breach any provisions of Paragraphs 13, 14, 15, 16, and 17  and the Company obtains a permanent injunction or final judgment that you have violated Paragraphs 13, 14, 15, 16, or 17 the Company shall have the additional right to recover from you all reasonable attorneys fees and costs.
20.
 
If you re-apply for employment with the Company after your Retirement Date, the Company, in its sole and exclusive discretion, may either accept or refuse the application without incurring any liability of any type whatsoever, based on this Agreement.  You agree that any refusal or failure by the Company to employ or re-employ you shall not be unlawful retaliation or discrimination against you.  In the event you are re-employed by the Company, any remaining unpaid pay continuation benefits will immediately cease and be forfeited.
21.
 
With respect to any acts taken by you in the course of your employment with the Company, you will be indemnified to the maximum extent allowable by the Bylaws of LNC and by any applicable statutory provisions.  Such indemnification shall continue following the date of termination of your employment with LNC solely with respect to acts by you in the course of your duties as an employee of LNC occurring after the date of commencement but prior to the date of termination of your employment with LNC.
22.
 
You acknowledge and agree to the following:
23.
 
This Phased Retirement Agreement is binding on the parties and on their heirs, administrators, representatives, executors, successors, and assigns.
 
 
 
 
 
24.
 
In response to any requests for references on your behalf, the Company will have no obligation to and will not provide any information beyond confirming the dates of employment and last position held, unless by mutual agreement of the parties. The parties agree not to publicly disparage each other to any third parties, whether verbally or in writing.
25.
 
This Phased Retirement Agreement is made and entered into in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and shall in all respects be interpreted, enforced and governed under the internal laws (and not the conflicts of laws rules) of said Commonwealth.  If any provision of this Agreement or the application of this Agreement is construed to be overbroad, illegal or contrary to public policy, then the court shall have the authority to narrow or amend the provision as necessary to make it enforceable and the provision shall then be enforceable in its narrowed or amended form.  Moreover, should any provision of this Agreement be declared or determined to be null, void, inoperative, illegal or invalid for any reason, the validity of the remaining parts, terms or provisions shall not be affected, and they shall retain their full force and effect.  The null, void, inoperative, illegal or invalid part, term or provision shall be deemed not to be a part of this Agreement, except that if the release contained herein is determined to be unenforceable, void or invalid, the Company shall have no further obligations to you hereunder.  As used in this Agreement, the singular or plural number shall be deemed to include the other whenever the context so indicates or requires.  The language of all parts of this Agreement shall in all cases be construed as a whole, according to its fair meaning, and not strictly for or against any of the parties.
26.
 
This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement between the parties, and fully supersedes any and all prior negotiations, agreements or understandings between the parties pertaining to the subject matter of this Agreement.  This Agreement may not be modified or amended by the parties except by a written agreement evidencing a clear intent by both parties to modify and/or amend this Agreement signed by both of the parties hereto.
 
 
 
YOU ARE ADVISED TO CONSULT AN ATTORNEY BEFORE SIGNING THIS DOCUMENT.
PLEASE READ CAREFULLY. YOU ARE GIVING UP LEGAL CLAIMS THAT YOU MIGHT HAVE AGAINST YOUR EMPLOYER BY SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT.
IF YOU VOLUNTARILY ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND INTEND TO BE LEGALLY BOUND BY IT, PLEASE SIGN IN THE SPACE INDICATED BELOW.
 
The undersigned accepts the foregoing Agreement on behalf of the Company, intending to legally bind the Company.
 
                Authorized to execute this Agreement
                on behalf of Lincoln National Corporation
                Witness:
/s/ Robert J. Bohner, Sr.

This Independent Contractor Consulting Agreement (Consulting Agreement) is between Lincoln National Corporation, an Indiana corporation with its principal office at 150 N. Radnor-Chester Road, Radnor, PA 19087, on behalf of itself and its subsidiaries and affiliates (Lincoln), and Robert W. Dineen, an individual having his principal residence at 65 Second Avenue, Westwood, NJ 07675 (Contractor).
The Term of this Agreement shall be one (1) year (365 days), beginning May 1, 2013 and ending April 30, 2014 (the Consulting Term).
This Agreement is conditioned upon Contractors signing and returning to Lincoln between April 20, 2013 and May 1, 2013 the Waiver Reaffirmation attached as Exhibit D to the Phased Retirement Agreement executed by Contractor on or about October 26, 2012.  Contractor understands and agrees that this Consulting Agreement will be voided by Lincoln Financial Group, with no further recourse by Contractor, in the event that Contractor fails to sign and abide by said Waiver Reaffirmation.
Contractor shall devote his best efforts to providing consulting services to Lincoln relating to undertake all duties and responsibilities as may be assigned to you, including assisting the Company with your transition from employment, assist in the transition of your former duties to any successor(s), and maintaining the Companys business, relationships, and goodwill, and such other duties as you may be assigned to you from time-to-time by the President & CEO of the Company.  The parties contemplate that the consulting services will not exceed 80 hours in any particular month or 350 hours in aggregate over the entire Consulting Term. Contractor agrees to comply with all applicable state laws and operate within the rules and regulations of all applicable regulatory authorities.  Contractor agrees not to discriminate against or harass any of Lincoln's employees, agents, customers, vendors or other contractors of Lincoln.
Upon termination or expiration of this Agreement, Contractor shall immediately return to Lincoln all of Lincoln's property, tangible and intangible, including all confidential information and trade secrets.
Lincoln retains Contractor only for the purposes and to the extent set forth in this Agreement.  Contractor's relation to Lincoln under this contract shall be that of an independent contractor.  Contractor shall not be considered as having any employee status or as being entitled to participate in any compensation or benefit plans, arrangements, or distributions by Lincoln pertaining to or in connection to any pension, stock, bonus, profit sharing or similar benefits for Lincoln's employees. Contractor shall refrain from taking any position in Lincolns securities based upon information that becomes known to Contractor or is received by Contractor by virtue of his performance of the services required hereunder.  Contractor shall further refrain from divulging such information to any third parties.
 
 
 
As compensation for all services rendered by Contractor under this Agreement, Lincoln shall pay Contractor at the rate of $36,583 per month for each month of the Consulting Term.  Additionally, the Company will reimburse Consultant for reasonable expenses incurred during the Consulting Term in connection with providing the Consulting Services.  Lincoln's obligation to reimburse Contractor pursuant to this paragraph shall be subject to Contractor providing Lincoln monthly invoices.  Payment will be made directly to Contractor and mailed to the address in the introductory paragraph. The consideration set forth in this paragraph shall be the sole consideration due Consultant and fully satisfies any obligation the Company would otherwise have during the Consulting Term to pay the Consultant for his time in accordance with the Phased Retirement Agreement between Consultant and the Company or any Agreement, Waiver, and General Release signed between Consultant and the Company (the Waiver).  If you materially breach or violate any provision in this Consulting Agreement, the Waiver, or the Phased Retirement Agreement, or if you fail to sign and abide by the Waiver Reaffirmation, the Company will void this Consulting Agreement and shall have the right to cease any further payments or benefits called for under this Consulting Agreement.
Contractor acknowledges that as a result of this Consulting Agreement he may acquire confidential information and trade secrets that are the property of Lincoln, and if disclosed to or used by third-parties will be damaging to Lincoln.  Contractor agrees to use best efforts to protect the confidentiality of any such confidential information and trade secrets and further represents that he will not, without prior written consent from Lincoln during the term of this Agreement and after termination, use for himself or others or disclose or permit to be disclosed to any third party, by any method, such confidential information or trade secrets of Lincoln.  For the purposes of this Consulting Agreement, this information shall include, but shall not be limited to, medical information, business or financial information, systems and procedures, customers, and accounts of Lincoln, manuals, ideas, processes, research, records, notes or memorandum.  Contractor recognizes that Lincoln has no adequate remedy at law in order to compel the enforcement of these provisions.  Therefore, the parties agree that Lincoln shall be entitled to injunctive relief, without posting bond as a condition of obtaining such relief, and monetary damages for any violation of the above.
This Agreement may not be transferred or assigned by either party without the consent of the other party.  Contractor may not subcontract any of his duties or obligations under this Agreement without the express written consent of Lincoln, which may be withheld in Lincolns sole discretion.
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.  Lincoln is an equal employment opportunity employer and is a federal contractor. Consequently, the parties agree that, to the extent applicable, they will comply with Executive Order 11246, the Vietnam Era Veterans Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974 and Section 503 of the Vocational Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and also agree that these laws are incorporated herein by this reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
If any provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal or unenforceable under any applicable statute or court decision, it is to that extent to be deemed omitted and the remaining provisions shall not be affected in any way.
 
This Agreement may be modified only in writing by the parties.
Accepted and agreed to, intending to be legally bound:

Re:        Agreement, Waiver and General Release
This Agreement, Waiver and General Release (Agreement, Waiver and General Release or Waiver) sets out the terms of your separation from Lincoln Financial Group (the Company).  Under the Waiver, the Company (which for purposes of this Waiver is defined as Lincoln National Corporation, its affiliates and subsidiaries, and each of their directors, officers, representatives, agents, attorneys, employees, successors, and assigns and any other person acting through, by, under or in concert with any of them) will provide you with the payments and other benefits as outlined in paragraph 2.b below in exchange for your agreement to waive and release any legal claims you have against the Company and for your other promises as set forth in this Waiver.
1.
 
You are retiring from the Company and your employment is being terminated other than for cause effective May 1, 2013 (Retirement Date).   The terms of your voluntary phased retirement from the Company are set forth in the Phased Retirement Agreement signed by you and the Company on or about October 26, 2012 (the Phased Retirement Agreement), the terms of which are incorporated herein by reference.
2.
 
This Waiver terminates your employment relationship with the Company and any claims you might have against the Company arising from that relationship.  In return for your release of claims, the Company agrees to provide you with payments and benefits to which you otherwise would not be entitled.  Accordingly, you and the Company (the parties) agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
b.
 
In exchange for your release of claims and your other promises as set forth in this Waiver, the Company agrees to provide you:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.
 
You agree to the following:
(Collectively, the Claims).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.
 
You agree that you will not, directly or indirectly, disclose the terms of this Waiver to anyone other than your spouse, outplacement consultant, attorney, accountant or tax advisor, except to the extent disclosure is required for accounting or tax reporting purposes or as otherwise required by law.
5.
 
Within thirty (30) days after signing this Waiver, you will have returned all Company property of any kind (including all copies thereof), including but not limited to documents, keys, forms, correspondence, computers, phones, printers, pagers, Blackberries, PDAs, computer programs, memos, discs, and the like.
6.
 
Due to the knowledge and information you possess and gained as a result of your employment with the Company, you hereby agree to make yourself available, at reasonable times, to cooperate, consult, testify, etc. with respect to current and future legal actions, including but not limited to litigation, arbitrations, mediation, administrative and/or regulatory proceedings in which the Company is a party.  the Company will pay you for the reasonable value of your time and reasonable expenses incurred with respect to any action in which you are not a plaintiff, claimant or counterclaimant, with the express understanding that any such payment is not made for or as an inducement to the substance of your testimony.  The Companys only expectation with regard to any testimony is that you testify truthfully.  The parties agree that the reasonable value of your time will be based on your last base salary at the Company.
7.
 
You agree that you will be subject to the Non-Disclosure Provision set forth in Paragraph 14 of the Phased Retirement Agreement between the Company and you (the Phased Retirement Agreement, which is hereby incorporated in its entirety into this Waiver by reference.
8.
 
You agree that neither you nor any entity directly or indirectly controlled by you will directly or indirectly participate in a proscribed activity as defined under Paragraph 13 of the Phased Retirement Agreement, which is hereby incorporated in its entirety into this Waiver by reference.
9.
 
For a twenty-four (24) week period (168 days) following your termination of employment from the Company, you agree that you will be subject to the Non-Competition Provision set forth in Paragraph 15 of the Phased Retirement Agreement, which is hereby incorporated in its entirety into this Waiver by reference.
10.
 
For a two (2) year period following your termination of employment from the Company, you agree that you will be subject to the Non-Solicitation Provision set forth in Paragraph 16 of the Phased Retirement Agreement, which is hereby incorporated in its entirety into this Waiver by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.
 
Regardless of whether you sign this Waiver, and as a condition of receiving the payments set forth in paragraph 2.b above, you must return to the Company, , all Company property, whether in physical or electronic form, including, but not limited to, documents and data (hard copy or electronic), forms (hard copy or electronic), correspondence (hard copy or electronic), access cards, computer programs (hard copy or electronic), memos (hard copy or electronic), disks, computers, and external storage devices, retaining no documents or data except for those related to your compensation information.  To the extent that you have Company information on personal electronic devices, you must search, identify, and permanently delete all such Company information.
retaining no copies
 
12.
 
If you materially breach or violate any provision in this Waiver, the Phased Retirement Agreement or the Consulting Agreement, the Company shall have the right to cease any further payments or benefits called for under paragraph 2.b of this Waiver; provided, however, that this Waiver and the release contained in this Waiver shall otherwise remain in full force and effect and the consideration supporting this Waiver shall be deemed adequate as long as you will have received at least twelve (12) weeks of base salary pursuant to paragraph 2.b of this Waiver.
13.
 
You agree and acknowledge that the injury that would be suffered by the Company as a result of breach of the provisions of paragraphs 7, 8, 10, or 11 would be irreparable and that an award of monetary damages to the Company for such breach would be an inadequate remedy.  Consequently, the Company shall have the right in addition to any other rights it may have, to obtain injunctive relief from any court of competent jurisdiction to restrain any breach or threatened breach or otherwise to specifically enforce any provision of this Waiver and the Company shall not be obligated to post bond or the security in seeking such relief. Without limiting the Companys rights under this paragraph or any other remedies of the Company, if you breach any provisions of paragraphs 7, 8, 10, or 11, and the Company obtains a permanent injunction or final judgment that you have violated paragraphs 7, 8, 10, or 11, the Company shall have the additional right to recover all reasonable attorneys fees and costs.
14.
 
You acknowledge and agree to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15.
 
If you re-apply for employment with the Company, the Company, in its sole and exclusive discretion, may either accept or refuse the application without incurring any liability of any type whatsoever, based on this Waiver.  You agree that any refusal or failure by the Company to employ or re-employ you shall not be unlawful retaliation or discrimination against you.
16.
 
This Waiver is binding on the parties and on their heirs, administrators, representatives, executors, successors, and assigns.
17.
 
In response to any requests for references on your behalf, the Company will have no obligation to and will not provide any information beyond confirming the dates of employment and last position held, unless by mutual agreement of the parties.
18.
 
This Waiver, the Phased Retirement Agreement, and the Consulting Agreement are made and entered into in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and shall in all respects be interpreted, enforced and governed under the internal laws (and not the conflicts of laws rules) of said Commonwealth.  If any provision of the Waiver, the Phased Retirement Agreement, and the Consulting Agreement or the application of the Waiver, the Phased Retirement Agreement, and the Consulting Agreement is construed to be overbroad, illegal or contrary to public policy, then the court shall have the authority to narrow or amend the provision as necessary to make it enforceable and the provision shall then be enforceable in its narrowed or amended form.  Moreover, should any provision of the Waiver, the Phased Retirement Agreement, and the Consulting Agreement be declared or determined to be null, void, inoperative, illegal or invalid for any reason, the validity of the remaining parts, terms or provisions shall not be affected, and they shall retain their full force and effect, except that if the release contained herein is determined to be unenforceable, void or invalid, the Company shall have no further obligations to you hereunder.  As used in this Waiver, the Phased Retirement Agreement, and the Consulting Agreement the singular or plural number shall be deemed to include the other whenever the context so indicates or requires.  The language of all parts of this Waiver, the Phased Retirement Agreement, and the Consulting Agreement shall in all cases be construed as a whole, according to its fair meaning, and not strictly for or against any of the parties.
19.
 
This Waiver, the Phased Retirement Agreement, and the Consulting Agreement set forth the entire agreement between the parties, and fully supersedes any and all prior negotiations, agreements or understandings between the parties pertaining to the subject matter of this Waiver, the Phased Retirement Agreement, and the Consulting Agreement.  The Waiver, the Phased Retirement Agreement, and the Consulting Agreement may not be modified or amended by the parties except by a written agreement evidencing a clear intent by both parties to modify and/or amend this Waiver, the Phased Retirement Agreement, and/or the Consulting Agreement signed by both of the parties hereto.
 
 
 
IF YOU VOLUNTARILY ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND INTEND TO BE BOUND BY IT, PLEASE SIGN IN THE SPACE INDICATED BELOW.
 
 
 
 
 
     
   


