FILE:LNC/LNC-8K-20121010165055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements
On October 10, 2012, Lincoln National Corporation (the Company) announced that Robert W. Dineen, formerly President of Lincoln Financial Network (LFN), has been appointed Vice Chairman of LFN, as part of a phased retirement.  Will H. Fuller, formerly President of Lincoln Financial Distributors, will lead LFD and LFN in the newly appointed role of President of Lincoln Financial Group Distribution.  LFN and LFD will remain separate and distinct distribution operations under Mr. Fuller.
A press release announcing these changes is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01.                            Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:  October 10, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
                         NEWS RELEASE
 Lincoln Financial Group (NYSE:LNC) (Lincoln) today announced that Robert W. Dineen, formerly President of Lincoln Financial Network (LFN), has been appointed Vice Chairman, Lincoln Financial Network as part of a phased retirement in the context of a planned succession process.
Philadelphia, PA, October 10, 2012
In this role, Dineen will work with President and CEO Dennis R. Glass to develop and refine long-term strategies at both the distribution and corporate levels.  Dineen will continue to report directly to Glass and to serve on the Senior Management Committee, and will join two additional management-level committees: the Enterprise Risk and Capital Committee as well as the Investment Committee.
Lincoln also announced a realignment of its distribution organization.  Under the new structure, LFN, which provides retail distribution services, and Lincoln Financial Distributors (LFD), which provides wholesale distribution services, remain separate and distinct businesses but operate under one organizational unit, Lincoln Financial Group Distribution.  Will H. Fuller, formerly President of LFD, leads this group as President, Lincoln Financial Group Distribution, and continues to report directly to Glass.  Dineen will assist Fuller in the implementing this new organizational structure and in completing the implementation of an upgraded broker/dealer platform.
Prior to joining Lincoln in early 2009, Fuller led product distribution for the Global Wealth Management division at Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. During his career at Merrill Lynch, Fuller served in capacities of increasing responsibility and leadership for Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management. His business management experience spans life insurance, annuities, mutual funds, managed accounts, advisory programs, banking and retirement products.
David S. Berkowitz, current Senior Vice President, Head of Lincoln Financial Advisors, has been appointed President of Lincoln Financial Network, reporting to Fuller.  Berkowitz brings 26 years of experience, including the past 10 years working alongside Dineen at LFN, and a proven track record of successfully leading distribution organizations.
Mr. Glass said, Bob has built a very strong team at LFN, which gives us great confidence that this succession process will go smoothly and will be seamless from the perspective of our advisors and their customers.
Glass continued, Lincolns powerful distribution platforms are a great source of our competitive strength and an important component of the attractive value proposition we present to customers. This organizational change reflects our normal succession process, with no change in our distribution strategy or our longstanding commitment to both retail and wholesale distribution.
About Lincoln Financial Group
Lincoln Financial Group is the marketing name for Lincoln National Corporation (NYSE:LNC) and its affiliates.  With headquarters in the Philadelphia region, the companies of Lincoln Financial Group had assets under management of $168 billion as of June 30, 2012.  Through its affiliated companies, Lincoln Financial Group offers: annuities; life, group life, disability and dental insurance; 401(k) and 403(b) plans; savings plans; and comprehensive financial planning and advisory services.  For more information, including a copy of our most recent SEC reports containing our balance sheets, please visit .
www.LincolnFinancial.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


