FILE:PX/PX-8K-20051005112834.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
FORM 8-K
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
ITEM 8.01 Other Events
 
Praxair, Inc. has issued a news release regarding the combined impacts of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and a tax charge related to its plan to repatriate non-U.S. earnings and to recapitalize non-U.S. subsidiaries, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit (99.1) and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
Exhibit (99.1):        News Release, dated October 4, 2005

Exhibit (99.1)
 
DANBURY, Conn., October 4, 2005  Praxair, Inc. (NYSE: PX)  announced today that it expects the combined impacts of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita to reduce operating profit by $15 to $18 million, or about four cents of diluted earnings per share, in the third quarter ended September 30, 2005.  The third quarter effects include minor property damage, business interruption, insurance adjustments, start-up and shutdown costs, higher distribution costs and higher energy costs.
 
While none of the company's facilities sustained significant property damage from either hurricane, eight facilities in Texas and Louisiana were affected and temporarily shut-in during the hurricanes.  Six of the eight facilities resumed operations within ten days of closure, and the other two are expected to become operational shortly.  However, demand for oxygen, nitrogen and hydrogen from Praxair's pipeline systems on the Gulf Coast remains curtailed pending the start-up of customer facilities damaged by the hurricanes or constrained by the availability of electricity, and a shortage of labor in the region.
 
Consistent with prior disclosure and earnings guidance, Praxair also anticipates a third quarter tax charge of approximately $90 million, or about 27 cents per diluted share, related to its plan to recapitalize its foreign subsidiaries and repatriate about $1.1 billion of foreign earnings pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act.
 
Excluding the hurricane and tax charges, Praxair's third quarter earnings guidance remains unchanged at 61 to 64 cents of diluted earnings per share.  Including these charges, diluted earnings per share for the third quarter are forecasted to be in the range of 30 to 33 cents.
 
Praxair will release its third quarter results on Wednesday, October 26 before the market opens, and hold a teleconference call, which will be open to the public and to the media in listen-only mode, as follows:
 
 
Presentation materials that will be used during the teleconference will be available at www.praxair.com/investors on Wednesday, October 26, 2005.
 
Praxair is the largest industrial gases company in North and South America, and one of the largest worldwide, with 2004 sales of $6.6 billion. The company produces, sells and distributes atmospheric and process gases, and high-performance surface coatings.  Praxair products, services and technologies bring productivity and environmental benefits to a wide variety of industries, including aerospace, chemicals, food and beverage, electronics, energy, healthcare, manufacturing, metals and others.  More information on Praxair is available on the Internet at www.praxair.com.


