FILE:PX/PX-8K-20061103160808.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
PRAXAIR, INC.
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
ITEM 1.01
.
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On November 2, 2006, Praxair, Inc. (the "Company") issued $400 million aggregate principal amount of 5.375% notes due 2016 (the "Notes").  The Notes were sold in a registered offering under the Securities Act of 1933, pursuant to the Company's shelf registration statement on Form S-3 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on December 19, 2002. The material terms of the Notes are described in the Company's prospectus supplement dated October 30, 2006 filed with the SEC on October 31, 2006.
In connection with the issuance of the Notes, the Company entered into a Terms Agreement dated October 30, 2006 (the "Terms Agreement") with Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, as underwriters acting on their behalf and on behalf of other underwriters (the "Underwriters"). Pursuant to and subject to the terms and conditions of the Terms Agreement, the Underwriters agreed to purchase the Notes from the Company for resale in the registered offering. The Terms Agreement is filed as Exhibit 1 to this Form 8-K.
 5 to this Form 8-K.
Exhibit
In connection with the Notes offering, Cahill Gordon & Reindel provided certain legal opinions to the Company that are filed as
ITEM 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
2
 
3

Exhibit 1
Praxair, Inc.
39 Old Ridgebury Road
Danbury, Connecticut 06810-5113
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC (the ""),are acting on behalf of the several Underwriters named below (together with the Representatives, the ""), and we understand that Praxair, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""),proposes to issue and sell $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 5.375% Notes due 2016 (the ""),covered by the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-102020) filed by the Company. Such registration statement, including the documents incorporated therein by reference and the information (if any) deemed to be part of the registration statement at each time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B of the Securities Act, as amended (the ""),is hereinafter referred to as the "."The prospectus dated December 31, 2002 covering the Offered Securities, as amended or supplemented from time to time, is hereinafter referred to as the "."The term ","as supplemented by the prospectus supplement dated October 30, 2006, in the form first used to confirm each sale of Offered Securities (or in the form first made available to the Underwriters by the Company to meet requests of purchasers pursuant to Rule 173 under the Securities Act) (the ""),is hereinafter referred to as the "."The term ""means the preliminary prospectus supplement dated October 30, 2006, together with the Basic Prospectus, as amended or supplemented immediately prior to the Time of Sale (as defined below). The term ""means an "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433 under the Securities Act. The term ""in respect of the Offered Securities means 3:06 p.m., New York time, on the date of this Agreement. The term ""means, as of the Time of Sale, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Issuer Free Writing Prospectus dated October 30, 2006, substantially in the form attached hereto as Schedule II (the "").As used herein, the terms ",""
Representatives
Underwriters
Company
Offered Securities
Securities Act
Registration Statement
Basic Prospectus
Basic Prospectus
Prospectus Supplement
Prospectus
Preliminary Prospectus
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
Time of Sale
Time of Sale Information
Pricing Term Sheet
Registration Statement
Basic
,"",""," and "" shall include the documents, if any, incorporated by reference therein. The terms ",""" and "" as used herein with respect to the Registration Statement, the Basic Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Time of Sale Information or Issuer Free Writing Prospectus shall include all documents subsequently filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), that are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein.
Prospectus
Prospectus
Preliminary Prospectus
Time of Sale Information
supplement
amendment
amend
Commission
Act
Exchange
& Wardwell, 450 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017.
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein or incorporated by reference herein, we agree to purchase the Offered Securities severally, but not jointly, in the principal amounts set forth opposite our respective names on Schedule I attached hereto. The closing in respect of the purchase and sale of the Offered Securities shall occur on November 2, 2006 at 9:30 A.M. (the "") at the offices of Davis Polk
Closing Date
5, 1996 edition) (the ""), a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A, are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety (as supplemented by this Terms Agreement) and shall be deemed to be a part of this Terms Agreement to the same extent as if the Basic Provisions (as supplemented by this Terms Agreement) had been set forth in full herein.
All the provisions contained in the Praxair, Inc. Standard Underwriting Agreement Provisions (April
Basic Provisions
            The Company represents and warrants to and agrees with each Underwriter that:
1.
Supplemental Representations and Warranties
of
the Company.
(a)          The Time of Sale Information, at the Time of Sale and at the Closing Date did not and will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided that the Company makes no representation and warranty with respect to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in such Time of Sale Information.
Time of Sale Information.
(b)          The Company (including its agents and representatives, other than the Underwriters in their capacity as such) has not prepared, made, used, authorized, approved or referred to and will not prepare, make, use, authorize, approve or refer to any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that constitutes an offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy the Offered Securities other than (i) any document not constituting a prospectus pursuant to Section 2(a)(10)(a) of the Securities Act or Rule 134 under the
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
2
Securities Act, (ii) the Preliminary Prospectus, (iii) the Prospectus and (iv) the Pricing Term Sheet, in each case approved in writing in advance by the Underwriters. Each such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, has been or will be (within the time period specified in Rule 433) filed in accordance with the Securities Act (to the extent required thereby) and, when taken together with the Time of Sale Information, did not, and at the Closing Date will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided that the Company makes no representation and warranty with respect to any statements or omissions made in each such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
(c)          Except as set forth in the Time of Sale Information, the Company, its subsidiaries and the Company's Board of Directors are in compliance, in all material respects, with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and all applicable rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith. The Company maintains a system of internal controls, including, but not limited to, disclosure controls and procedures, internal controls over accounting matters and financial reporting, an internal audit function and legal and regulatory compliance controls that comply, in all material respects, with the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
Internal Controls and Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
(d)          Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, including the Pricing Term Sheet, does not include any information that conflicts with the information contained in the Registration Statement, including any document incorporated therein by reference and any prospectus supplement deemed to be a part thereof that has not been superseded or modified. The foregoing sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by or on behalf of any Underwriter consists of the information described below.
No Conflicts.
2.            The Company covenants and agrees with each Underwriter that:
Further Agreements of the Company.
(a)          Before making, preparing, using, authorizing, approving, referring to or filing any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus the Company will furnish to the Underwriters and counsel for the Underwriters a copy of the proposed Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for review and will not make, prepare, use, authorize, approve, refer to or file any such Issuer
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses.
3
Free Writing Prospectus to which the Underwriters or counsel for the Underwriters reasonably objects.
(b)          If at any time prior to the later of the Closing Date or the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Offered Securities (i) any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which the Time of Sale Information as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances, not misleading or (ii) it is necessary to amend or supplement the Time of Sale Information to comply with law, the Company will immediately notify the Underwriters thereof and forthwith prepare and, subject to paragraph 2(a) above, file with the Commission (to the extent required) and furnish to the Underwriters such amendments or supplements to the Time of Sale Information as may be necessary so that the statements in the Time of Sale Information as so amended or supplemented will not, in the light of the circumstances, be misleading or so that the Time of Sale Information will comply with law.
Time of Sale Information.
(c)          For purposes of Section 4(b) of the Basic Provisions, the following shall be added before the period at the end of the first sentence: "(other than Exchange Act filings to be made in the ordinary course, in which case the Company will furnish to the Representatives a copy of such proposed filing)".
3.            The letters referred to in Section 5(a) of the Basic Provisions shall be dated the date of this Terms Agreement and the Closing Date, and the reference in Section 5(a) of the Basic Provisions to "CBI Industries, Inc." shall be deleted. The opinions required by Sections 5(d)(i), 5(d)(ii) and 5(e) of the Basic Provisions, to the extent such opinions refer to the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, shall also refer to the Time of Sale Information, and such opinions shall be in a form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives. The term "Prospectuses" as used in Sections 2(c), 2(d), 2(j), 2(m), 2(n), 2(o) and 5(a) of the Basic Provisions shall be deemed to include the Time of Sale Information, and as used in Sections 6(a) and 6(b) of the Basic Provisions shall be deemed to include the Time of Sale Information and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is taken together with the Time of Sale Information.
Additional Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters; Indemnification.
The obligations of the Underwriters shall also be subject to the condition that any material required to he filed by the Company pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act, shall have been filed with the Commission within the applicable time periods prescribed for such filings by Rule 433 under the Securities Act.
4
Each Underwriter represents and warrants and agrees with the Company that:
4.           
Supplemental Representations, Warranties and Covenants of the Underwriters.
(a)          The Underwriter has not used, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Company, it will not use, (i) any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus relating to the Offered Securities other than the Pricing Term Sheet and any preliminary term sheets substantially in the form of the Pricing Term Sheet with certain pricing terms to be determined.
Free Writing Prospectuses.
The Company hereby acknowledges that (a) each Underwriter is acting solely as underwriter of the offering of the Offered Securities and not as advisor to, or agent of, the Company and (b) each Underwriter is acting as an independent contractor and not in any other capacity, including as a fiduciary, in connection with the offering of the Offered Securities. Furthermore, the Company and each Underwriter agrees that it is solely responsible for making its own independent judgments with respect to the offering of the Offered Securities. The Company waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims it may have against the Representatives for breach of fiduciary duty or alleged breach of fiduciary duty.
5.
           
No Fiduciary Duty.
Any references in the Basic Provisions to a time when a prospectus relating to the Offered Securities is required to be delivered under the Securities Act shall be deemed to include circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 under the Securities Act.
6.           
Prospectus Delivery Requirements.
1(b) and l(d) of this Terms Agreement and Sections 2 and 6 of the Basic Provisions, the only information furnished to the Company by the Underwriters for use in the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus consists of the following information: the information contained in the third, sixth (with respect to market making by the underwriters), and seventh paragraphs under the caption "Underwriting" in the Prospectus Supplement.
For purposes of Sections 1(a),
5
Name and Address of Underwriters:
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
Banc of America Securities LLC
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC
c/o
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
 Floor
388 Greenwich Street, 36
th
New York, NY 10013
Attention: General Counsel's Office
 
6
 
7
 
 
This Terms Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which counterparts shall constitute one and the same instrument.
8
terms.
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to us the enclosed duplicate hereof, whereupon it will become a binding agreement among the Company and the Underwriters in accordance with its
9
is hereby confirmed as of the date first above written.
The foregoing Terms Agreement
PRAXAIR, INC.
Final Term Sheet
Filed pursuant to Rule 433
Dated October 30, 2006
Relating to
Prospectus Supplement dated October 30, 2006 to
Registration Statement No. 333-102020
 
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov.
Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling (i) Citigroup Global Markets Inc. toll free 1-877-858-5407, (ii) Banc
of America Securities LLC toll free 1-800-294-1322 or (iii) Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC toll free 1-800-221-1037.
Any disclaimers or other notices that may appear below are not applicable to this communication and should be disregarded. Such disclaimers or other notices were automatically generated as a result of this communication being sent via Bloomberg or another email system.

EXHIBIT 5
(212) 701-3000
Praxair, Inc. 39 Old Ridgebury Road
Danbury, CT  06810-5113
Praxair, Inc. Registration Statement on
Re:
                              
Form S-3 (No. 333-102020)
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special counsel to Praxair, Inc. (the "Company") in connection with the registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-102020) (the "Registration Statement") and the prospectus supplement dated October 30, 2006 (the "Prospectus Supplement") relating to $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.375% Notes due 2016 (the "Notes").  The Notes were issued under an Indenture (the "Indenture") dated as of July 15, 1992 between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as successor Trustee (the "Trustee").
In rendering the opinion set forth herein, we have examined originals, photocopies or conformed copies of certain records of the Company, certain agreements, certificates of public officials, certificates of officers and representatives of the Company and certain other documents.  In such examinations, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures on original documents and the conformity to the originals of all copies submitted to us as conformed or photocopied.
Based on the foregoing, we advise you that in our opinion the Notes have been duly issued and delivered and, assuming the due execution and delivery of the Indenture by the Trustee and the due authentication of the Notes by the Trustee, are valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization,
 
fraudulent transfer or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity.
We are members of the bar of the State of New York, and in rendering this opinion we express no opinion as to the laws of any jurisdiction other than the laws of the State of New York and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an Exhibit to the Form 8-K filed by the Company in connection with the issuance of the Notes.  Such consent does not constitute a consent under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, and by giving such consent we have not certified any part of the Registration Statement or the Prospectus Supplement and do not otherwise admit that we are within the categories of persons whose consent is required under said Section 7 or under the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder.
 
2


