FILE:PX/PX-8K-20060329163025.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
FORM 8-K
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
ITEM 8.01  Other Events.
 
On March 29, 2006, Praxair, Inc. issued a press release announcing price increases and other cost recovery actions. A copy of Praxair, Inc.'s press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
ITEM 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
PRAXAIR ANNOUNCES PRICE INCREASES AND RELATED ACTIONS
 
DANBURY, Conn., March 29, 2006  Praxair, Inc. (NYSE: PX) today announced it is notifying its industrial, medical and specialty gas customers in the U.S. and helium customers worldwide of the following price increases, effective immediately, except as otherwise permitted by the terms and conditions of customer contracts:
 
10% increase for bulk oxygen, nitrogen and carbon dioxide
 - 
15% increase for argon, hydrogen and helium
 - 
5% increase for cylinder rental fees
 - 
 
These actions are being implemented in response to strong demand as well as continued energy, logistics and other operational cost pressures for all products. For helium, the high cost of crude gas and refined liquid purchases are additional factors.
 
Praxair is also advising customers in the U.S. of modified or additional regional charges for recovery of premium energy costs. Electricity and/or natural gas are the largest cost factors in the production of industrial gases.
 
"Throughout last year's disruptions due to hurricanes and interruptions in feed sources, Praxair maintained the highest level of reliability in the industry and provided our customers with the products they needed. We are committed to maintaining this high level of performance in an environment of strong demand and increased costs." said Jim Fuchs, president of Praxair's North American Industrial Gases business.
 
Praxair is the largest industrial gases company in North and South America, and one of the largest worldwide, with 2005 sales of $7.7 billion. The company produces, sells and distributes atmospheric, process and specialty gases, and high-performance surface coatings. Praxair products, services and technologies bring productivity and environmental benefits to a wide variety of industries, including aerospace, chemicals, food and beverage, electronics, energy, healthcare, manufacturing, metals and others. More information on Praxair is available on the Internet at www.praxair.com.
 
 


