FILE:PX/PX-8K-20070914141545.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01 Other Events.
On September 13, 2007, Praxair Distribution, Inc., a subsidiary of Praxair, Inc., issued a press release announcing certain price actions for its packaged gas products in the U.S. and Canada. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
Praxair, Inc. 39 Old Ridgebury Road Danbury, CT 06810, U.S.A www.praxair.com
Contacts:
Gary Gillum, Praxair, Inc. Media (203) 837-2702  gary_gillum@praxair.com Elizabeth Hirsch, Investors (203) 837-2354
-liz_hirsch@praxair.com
PRAXAIR DISTRIBUTION ANNOUNCES PRICE ACTIONS
DANBURY, Conn., September 13, 2007  Praxair Distribution, Inc., a subsidiary of Praxair, Inc. (NYSE: PX), announced the following price actions for its packaged gas products in the U.S. and Canada:
In some circumstances, price adjustments may be higher or lower than these percentages.
These price increases are in response to continued escalating raw material, labor, energy and fuel cost increases and reflect the limited available capacity at production facilities for certain products, particularly helium.
Praxair is the largest industrial gases company in North and South America, and one of the largest worldwide, with 2006 sales of $8.3 billion. The company produces, sells and distributes atmospheric, process and specialty gases, and high-performance surface coatings. Praxair products, services and technologies bring productivity and environmental benefits to a wide variety of industries, including aerospace, chemicals, food and beverage, electronics, energy, healthcare, manufacturing, metals and others. More information on Praxair is available on the Internet at www.praxair.com.


