FILE:PX/PX-8K-20070524124118.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) On May 23, 2007, the Compensation & Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors approved an updated arrangement whereby Stephen F. Angel, in recognition of his assuming the position of Chairman of the Board effective May 1, 2007, may receive, over time and in connection with certain events, additional service credit under the pension plan according to the terms set forth in the Service Credit Arrangement filed herewith as Exhibit 10.20.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
EXHIBIT 10.20
The Compensation and Management Development Committee of Praxair, Inc.'s Board of Directors has approved an updated arrangement under which your years of service with your prior employer may be credited to you for various purposes under the terms set forth in this letter.
Any service credited will be used for purposes of calculating your pension under the Praxair non-qualified retirement program (the Supplemental Retirement Income Plan, as may be amended from time to time). In addition, these service credits, when earned, will be used to determine your retirement eligibility under Praxair's plans and any retirement eligibility so determined will be fully effective with respect to any other benefit, compensation or award that is dependent, or calculated, in whole or in part on retirement eligibility. Please note that, under the non-qualified pension plan, any pension benefit paid will be offset by benefits you receive under your prior employer's plans.
The details of the service crediting follow.
 
On behalf of the COMPENSATION & MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE OF PRAXAIR, INC.
 
"Termination for Cause" shall mean termination of your employment upon your willfully engaging in conduct demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company, monetarily or otherwise, provided that there shall have been delivered to you a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the unanimous affirmative vote of the entire membership of the Board of the Company at a meeting of the Board of the Company called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice to you and an opportunity for you, together with your counsel, to be heard before the Board of the Company), finding that in the good faith opinion of the Board of the Company you were guilty of the conduct set forth and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.
1
For purposes of this Paragraph, no act, or failure to act, on your part shall be deemed "willful" unless done, or omitted to be done, by you not in good faith and without reasonable belief that your action or omission was in the best interest of the Company. Any act or failure to act based upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board of the Company or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done or omitted to be done by you in good faith and in the best interests of the Company.


