FILE:PX/PX-8K-20091110124706.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01 Other Events.
On November 62009, Praxair Distribution, Inc., a subsidiary of Praxair, Inc., issued a press release announcing price increases. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
,
ITEM 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d)           Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
PRAXAIR DISTRIBUTION ANNOUNCES PRICE ACTIONS EFFECTIVE DECEMBER 1, 2009
DANBURY, Conn., November 6, 2009  Praxair Distribution, Inc., a subsidiary of Praxair, Inc. (NYSE: PX), is notifying its industrial, medical and specialty gas cylinder customers through its direct locations and its majority-owned joint ventures in the U.S. and Canada of price actions effective December 1, 2009 or as otherwise permitted by customer contracts.
Increases will be up to:
          In some circumstances, price adjustments may be higher or lower than these percentages, depending on product and supply conditions.
          These actions will enable Praxair to provide packaged gas customers with consistent, reliable supply under current reduced plant and distribution efficiencies and position Praxair to meet future demand as the economy recovers.
          Praxair, Inc. is the largest industrial gases company in North and South America and one of the largest worldwide, with 2008 sales of $10.8 billion. The company produces, sells and distributes atmospheric, process and specialty gases, and high-performance surface coatings. Praxair products, services and technologies bring productivity and environmental benefits to a wide variety of industries, including aerospace, chemicals, food and beverage, electronics, energy, healthcare, manufacturing, metals and others. More information on Praxair is available on the Internet at www.praxair.com.
Contacts:
Maureen Fama, Media (203) 837-2025  maureen_fama@praxair.com Elizabeth Hirsch, Investors (203) 837-2354 -liz_hirsch@praxair.com


