FILE:PX/PX-8K-20101215095838.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Impairments	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 2.06 Material Impairments
On December 15, 2010, Praxair, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing a decision to sell the U.S. homecare portion of its North American healthcare business which is expected to result in an earnings charge of approximately $40 million, representing an adjustment to estimated fair value.
ITEM 8.01 Other Events
Praxair also announced on December 15, 2010 that it will take a charge to its earnings in the fourth quarter. The charge is expected to reduce fourth quarter and full-year 2010 net income and earnings per share by approximately $290 million, and 93 cents, respectively. Excluding the charge, the company reaffirms its previous fourth-quarter diluted EPS earnings per share guidance of $1.18 to $1.23 on an adjusted basis*, and its ongoing effective tax rate of about 28%.
The charge is primarily the result of a decision to settle various income tax disputes with the Spanish Government which is expected to result in a charge to earnings of approximately $250 million and cash payments of approximately $500 million. Additionally, as referenced in Item 2.06 above, the Company intends to sell the U.S. homecare portion of its North American healthcare business which is expected to result in an earnings charge of approximately $40 million, representing an adjustment to estimated fair value.
 
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
PRAXAIR WILL TAKE CHARGE TO FOURTH-QUARTER EARNINGS; REAFFIRMS EARNINGS GUIDANCE EX-CHARGE
DANBURY, Conn., December 15, 2010  Praxair, Inc. (NYSE: PX) announced that it will take a charge to its earnings in the fourth quarter. The charge is expected to reduce fourth-quarter and full-year 2010 net income and earnings per share by approximately $290 million and 93 cents, respectively. Excluding the charge, the company reaffirms its previous fourth-quarter diluted earnings per share guidance of $1.18 to $1.23 on an adjusted basis*, and its ongoing effective tax rate of about 28%.
     The charge is primarily the result of a decision to settle various income tax disputes with the Spanish Government which is expected to result in a charge to earnings of approximately $250 million and cash payments of approximately $500 million. Additionally, the company intends to sell the U.S. homecare portion of its North American healthcare business, which is expected to result in an earnings charge of approximately $40 million, representing an adjustment to estimated fair value.
     Praxair is the largest industrial gases company in North and South America, and one of the largest worldwide, with 2009 sales of $9 billion. The company produces, sells and distributes atmospheric and process gases, and high-performance surface coatings. Praxair products, services and technologies bring productivity and environmental benefits to a wide variety of industries, including aerospace, chemicals, food and beverage, electronics, energy, healthcare, manufacturing, metals and others. More information on Praxair is available on the Internet at .
www.praxair.com
 


