FILE:PX/PX-8K-20110428150640.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
As disclosed under Item 5.07 below, at the 2011 Annual Meeting of shareholders of Praxair, Inc. ("Praxair"), shareholders approved: (1) performance goals under Praxair's Plan for Determining Performance-Based Awards Under Section 162(m) ("162(m) Plan"), and (2) amendments to the 2009 Praxair, Inc. Long Term Incentive Plan ("2009 Plan") to add non-employee directors as participants. In connection with submitting the 162(m) Plan performance goals for shareholder approval, the 162(m) Plan was amended in certain respects, including amendments to the performance goals, effective January 1, 2011.
(e)
The 2009 Plan, as amended, was filed as Exhibit 10.21 to Praxair's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The 162(m) Plan, as amended, was included in Appendix 3 to Praxair's definitive proxy statement dated March 16, 2011, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
ITEM 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
The Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Praxair, Inc. was held on April 26, 2011. The total number of shares that were present or represented by proxy at the Annual Meeting was 258,952,343, which was 85.3% of the shares outstanding and entitled to vote and which constituted a quorum. The final voting results of the items submitted to a vote of the shareholders are set forth below.
Proposal 1
The ten nominees for election as a director were elected to serve until the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders, and until his or her successor is elected and qualified. The vote results were as follows, with each nominee having received at least 92.6% of the votes cast for his or her election:
Proposal 2
Shareholders approved, on an advisory and non-binding basis, the compensation of Praxair's Named Executive Officers as disclosed in the 2011 Proxy Statement, by the votes set forth below
 
Proposal 3
Shareholders recommended, on an advisory and non-binding basis, by the votes set forth below, that future advisory votes on Named Executive Officer compensation should be held annually.
Based upon these results, which were consistent with the Board's recommendation, the Board has determined that Praxair will hold an advisory vote on Named Executive Officer compensation annually until the next vote on the frequency of holding such advisory votes
Proposal 4
Shareholders approved performance goals under Praxair's Section 162(m) Plan, by the votes set forth below.
Proposal 5
Shareholders approved amendments to the 2009 Praxair, Inc. Long Term Incentive Plan to add non-employee directors as eligible participants, by the votes set forth below.
 
Proposal 6
Shareholders ratified the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the independent auditor, by the votes set forth below.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


