FILE:PX/PX-8K-20120125120225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 25, 2012, Praxair, Inc. issued a press release setting forth Praxair, Inc.'s results of operations for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2011. A copy of Praxair, Inc.'s press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit (99.1) and is hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02.
ITEM 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
ITEM 8.01 Other Events.
On January 25, 2012, Praxair, Inc. issued a press release announcing that the Board of Directors has approved a 10% increase in Praxair's annual dividend rate and a new $1.5 billion stock repurchase program. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3 and is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 8.01.
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
PRAXAIR REPORTS FOURTH-QUARTER AND FULL-YEAR 2011 RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DANBURY, Conn., January 25, 2012  Praxair, Inc. (NYSE: PX) reported fourth-quarter net income and diluted earnings per share of $420 million and $1.38, respectively. These results include a gain on an acquisition and charges relating to severance and business restructuring actions, primarily in Europe. Excluding these items, adjusted net income and diluted earnings per share were $414 million and $1.36, 7% and 9% above the prior-year quarter, respectively.*
Sales in the fourth quarter were $2,796 million, up 7% from the prior-year quarter due to higher volumes and prices, partially offset by negative currency translation. Reported operating profit in the fourth quarter was $618 million. Adjusted operating profit of $619 million was 10% above the prior-year quarter due to higher volumes and prices combined with productivity improvements.*
For the full year of 2011, reported net income was $1,672 million and reported diluted earnings per share was $5.45. Full-year adjusted net income was $1,666 million, up 13% from 2010. Adjusted diluted earnings per share was $5.43, 15% above the prior year.*
Full-year sales grew 11% from 2010 to $11,252 million, due primarily to higher volumes and prices. Reported operating profit was $2,468 million. Adjusted operating profit of $2,469 million was 14% above 2010, due to higher volumes, price and operating leverage from productivity programs.*
For the full year, cash flow from operations was a record $2,455 million. Capital expenditures, primarily for new production plants under long-term contracts with customers, were $1,797 million. Acquisition expenditures of $294 million were primarily acquisitions of packaged gas distributors in the United States, combined with increased ownership of businesses in Scandinavia and the Middle East. The company paid $602 million of dividends and repurchased $742 million of stock, net of issuances.
 
Commenting on the financial results and business outlook, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve Angel said, "In 2011, Praxair again delivered strong growth combined with industry-leading profitability. We signed a record amount of new contracts in 2011 and finished the year with a backlog of $2.7 billion of new projects under construction which will come on-stream in 2012, 2013, and 2014.
"As we enter 2012, our outlook remains positive, particularly for the North American energy, manufacturing and materials industries which we serve and the growing economies in Asia and South America. We expect strong project activity again in 2012 and we remain confident in our ability to execute in a manner our customers and shareholders have grown to anticipate."
For the full year of 2012, Praxair expects sales in the area of $11.7 to $12 billion, up 4% to 7%. On an underlying basis, Praxair is expecting to sustain sales growth of 8% to 12%, similar to 2011, from volume, price, project start-ups and acquisitions. However, at current exchange rates sales growth is expected to be negatively impacted by about 5% due to currency translation which is reflected in our guidance. The company expects diluted earnings per share to be in the range of $5.70 to $5.90 which includes a negative year-over-year impact of about 25 cents at current rates from the strengthening of the U.S. dollar across a number of currencies including the real, euro, peso, won and rupee. Full-year capital expenditures are expected to be in the range of $2.1 to 2.4 billion, and the effective tax rate is forecasted to remain at about 28%.
For the first quarter of 2012, Praxair expects diluted earnings per share in the range of $1.33 to $1.38 which includes a negative year-over-year currency impact of about 7 cents at current exchange rates.
Following is additional detail on fourth-quarter 2011 results by segment.
In North America, fourth-quarter sales were $1,399 million, up 7% from the prior-year quarter. Underlying sales grew 10% from higher volumes and prices, largely attributable to growth in the manufacturing, energy, chemicals and metals markets. Operating profit of $364 million grew 17% from the prior year due to higher volumes, price and cost savings.
In Europe, fourth-quarter sales were $380 million. Sales were 12% above the prior year due primarily to the acquisition of increased ownership of Yara Praxair in Scandinavia, partially offset by lower volume. Operating profit was $61 million in the quarter, compared to $68 million in the prior year primarily due to lower volumes. During the quarter actions were taken to reduce costs, including severance and facility consolidation.
In South America, fourth-quarter sales were $532 million. Sales grew 8% from the prior-year quarter, excluding a 5% negative currency impact, due primarily to higher price and volumes. Operating profit was $118 million as compared to $114 million in the prior-year period due primarily to cost reduction programs and price.
Sales in Asia were $325 million in the quarter, up 6% from the prior year, driven by volume growth in India, China and Korea including new plant start-ups. Sales growth came primarily from metals and chemicals customers. Operating profit was $52 million, as compared to $50 million in the prior-year, due primarily to higher volumes, partially offset by cost inflation and lower volumes in Thailand due to the floods.
 
Praxair Surface Technologies had fourth-quarter sales of $160 million, up 7%, compared to $150 million in the prior-year quarter. Sales growth came from the energy market from higher coatings of parts used in oil and gas exploration and from higher volumes of aviation coatings. Operating profit increased to $24 million from $20 million in the quarter due to volume growth. During the quarter actions were taken to reduce costs in Europe, including severance and facility consolidation.
Praxair is the largest industrial gases company in North and South America, and one of the largest worldwide. The company produces, sells and distributes atmospheric and process gases, and high-performance surface coatings. Praxair products, services and technologies are making the planet more productive by bringing efficiency and environmental benefits to a wide variety of industries, including aerospace, chemicals, food and beverage, electronics, energy, healthcare, manufacturing, metals and others. More information on Praxair is available on the Internet at www.praxair.com.
 
P-05/12
Non-GAAP Reconciliations, Statements of Income, Balance Sheets, Statements of Cash Flows, Segment Information, Quarterly Financial Summary, and Appendix: Non-GAAP Measures.
Attachments:
on Praxair's fourth-quarter results is being held this morning, January 25, at 11:00 am Eastern Time. The number is (617) 847-8706  Passcode: 48944786. The call also is available as a web cast at www.praxair.com/investors. Materials to be used in the teleconference are also available.
A teleconference
This document contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's reasonable expectations and assumptions as of the date the statements are made but involve risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation: the performance of stock markets generally; developments in worldwide and national economies and other international events and circumstances; changes in foreign currencies and in interest rates; the cost and availability of electric power, natural gas and other raw materials; the ability to achieve price increases to offset cost increases; catastrophic events including natural disasters, epidemics and acts of war and terrorism; the ability to attract, hire, and retain qualified personnel; the impact of changes in financial accounting standards; the impact of changes in pension plan liabilities; the impact of tax, environmental, healthcare and other legislation and government regulation in jurisdictions in which the company operates; the cost and outcomes of investigations, litigation and regulatory proceedings; continued timely development and market acceptance of new products and applications; the impact of competitive products and pricing; future financial and operating performance of major customers and industries served; and the effectiveness and speed of integrating new acquisitions into the business. These risks and uncertainties may cause actual future results or circumstances to differ materially from the projections or estimates contained in the forward-looking statements. The company assumes no obligation to update or provide revisions to any forward-looking statement in response to changing circumstances. The above listed risks and uncertainties are further described in Item 1A (Risk Factors) in the company's Form 10-K and 10-Q reports filed with the SEC which should be reviewed carefully. Please consider the company's forward-looking statements in light of those risks.
 
The following Non-GAAP measures are intended to supplement investors' understanding of the company's financial statements by providing measures which investors, financial analysts and management use to help evaluate the company's financial leverage, return on capital and operating performance. Items which the company does not believe to be indicative of on-going business trends are excluded from these calculations so that investors can better evaluate and analyze historical and future business trends on a consistent basis. Definitions of these non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similar definitions used by other companies and are not a substitute for similar GAAP measures.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following non-GAAP measures are intended to supplement investors' understanding of the company's financial information by providing measures which investors, financial analysts and management use to help evaluate the company's financing leverage, return on net assets employed and operating performance. Items which the company does not believe to be indicative of on-going business trends are excluded from these calculations so that investors can better evaluate and analyze historical and future business trends on a consistent basis. Definitions of these non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similar definitions used by other companies and are not a substitute for similar GAAP measures. Adjusted amounts exclude the impact of the 2011 fourth quarter gain on acquisition and cost reduction program while the 2010 fourth quarter excludes the Spanish income tax settlement, business divestiture and repatriation tax benefit and first quarter 2010 excludes the Venezuela currency devaluation which helps investors understand underlying performance on a comparable basis.
 
 
 
Percentage Change in Adjusted Full Year and First Quarter 2012 Diluted EPS Guidance
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Contacts:
 
Praxair Announces Promotions of Menezes, Telesz
Executive Vice President Ricardo Malfitano Announces Retirement
 
- Steve Angel, chairman and chief executive officer of Praxair (NYSE:PX) has announced that Eduardo Menezes has been promoted to executive vice president and will continue to lead the U.S. Industrial Gases businesses, Praxair Mexico and Praxair Canada businesses. Scott Telesz has also been promoted to executive vice president and will now lead Praxair Asia in addition to Praxair Europe/Russia, Praxair Surface Technologies, Middle East, Strategic Planning and Global Procurement & Materials Management.
DANBURY CT, January 25, 2012
These promotions are effective on March 1, 2012, following the retirement of executive vice president Ricardo Malfitano.
"Eduardo and Scott are proven leaders who will continue to drive our global expansion and deliver outstanding results for the company," said Angel. "Ricardo has been a dynamic leader at Praxair for many years and we will miss him. We wish him all the best in his retirement."
Menezes has been president of Praxair's largest business unit, North American Industrial Gases, since 2010 and was elected senior vice president in 2011. He joined the company at White Martins, a Praxair subsidiary based in Brazil, in 1986, and has held positions of increasing responsibility including managing director of Praxair's business in Mexico and president of Praxair Europe. Menezes holds a chemical engineering degree from Federal University of Rio de Janeiro and an MBA from State University of New York.
Telesz was appointed senior vice president of Praxair and a member of the executive leadership team in 2010. He is responsible for Praxair's gases business in Europe, India and the Middle East, Praxair Surface Technologies, healthcare markets and the company's Global Procurement and Materials Management group. Prior to joining Praxair, Telesz was with SABIC Innovative Plastics where he managed the company's $2.5 billion global resins business. Prior to that, he held a variety of general management positions with General Electric and McKinsey. Telesz earned a degree in electrical engineering from Duke and an MBA from Harvard Business School.
About Praxair
Praxair, Inc. is the largest industrial gases company in North and South America, and one of the largest worldwide, with 2011 sales of approximately $11 billion. The company produces, sells and distributes atmospheric, process and specialty gases, and high-performance surface coatings. Praxair products, services and technologies are making the planet more productive by bringing efficiency and environmental benefits to a wide variety of industries, including aerospace, chemicals, food and beverage, electronics, energy, healthcare, manufacturing, metals and others. More information on Praxair is available on the Internet at www.praxair.com

Exhibit 99.3
 
Contacts:
 
PRAXAIR BOARD AUTHORIZES SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAM; DECLARES QUARTERLY DIVIDEND
DANBURY, Conn., January 25, 2012  The Board of Directors of Praxair, Inc. (NYSE: PX) has authorized a new share repurchase program for up to $1.5 billion of its common stock, reflecting the company's strong balance sheet and free-cash-flow generation.
Repurchases may take place from time to time on the open market which may include the use of 10b5-1 trading plans or through negotiated transactions, subject to market and business conditions. The repurchases will be financed by available cash and debt. The current $1.5 billion repurchase program in effect since July 2010 has been substantially completed.
"This new program reflects the board's confidence in Praxair's continuing ability to generate steady earnings growth and cash flow around the world over the next several years," said Chairman and CEO Steve Angel.
The board of directors also has declared a 10% increase in Praxair's quarterly dividend to 55 cents per share, payable on March 15, 2012 to common shareholders of record on March 7, 2012. This is the 19
th
consecutive annual increase in Praxair's dividend.
The company will hold a teleconference to discuss fourth-quarter results this morning, January 25, at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time, and may provide additional information regarding the share repurchase program. The number is (617) 847-8706  Passcode: 48944786. The call also is available as a web cast at www.praxair.com/investors.
Praxair is the largest industrial gases company in North and South America, and one of the largest worldwide, with 2011 sales of $11 billion. Praxair's products, services and technologies are making the planet more productive by bringing efficiency and environmental benefits to a wide range of industries. More information on Praxair is available on the Internet at www.praxair.com.
PRAXAIR BOARD AUTHORIZES SHARE REPURCHASE/Page 2
This document contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's reasonable expectations and assumptions as of the date the statements are made but involve risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation: the performance of stock markets generally; developments in worldwide and national economies and other international events and circumstances; changes in foreign currencies and in interest rates; the cost and availability of electric power, natural gas and other raw materials; the ability to achieve price increases to offset cost increases; catastrophic events including natural disasters, epidemics and acts of war and terrorism; the ability to attract, hire, and retain qualified personnel; the impact of changes in financial accounting standards; the impact of changes in pension plan liabilities; the impact of tax, environmental, healthcare and other legislation and government regulation in jurisdictions in which the company operates; the cost and outcomes of investigations, litigation and regulatory proceedings; continued timely development and market acceptance of new products and applications; the impact of competitive products and pricing; future financial and operating performance of major customers and industries served; and the effectiveness and speed of integrating new acquisitions into the business. These risks and uncertainties may cause actual future results or circumstances to differ materially from the projections or estimates contained in the forward-looking statements. The company assumes no obligation to update or provide revisions to any forward-looking statement in response to changing circumstances. The above listed risks and uncertainties are further described in Item 1A (Risk Factors) included in the company's Form 10-K and 10-Q reports filed with the SEC which should be reviewed carefully. Please consider the company's forward-looking statements in light of those risks.


