Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Retirement Income and Investments. As of or for the years ended December 31, (Amounts in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Revenues Spread based retail products $ 2,012 $ 2,224 $ 2,712 Fee based products 348 246 317 Spread based institutional products 572 442 332 Total revenues $ 2,932 $ 2,912 $ 3,361 Segment net operating income Spread based retail products $ 119 $ 151 $ 79 Fee based products 76 59 44 Spread based institutional products 42 37 30 Total segment net operating income 237 247 153 Net investment gains (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments (34 ) Total segment net income $ 203 $ 247 $ 153 Total segment assets $ 59,391 $ 58,281 $ 56,610 Products Fee based products Managed Money We offer asset management services to affluent individual investors. Through our affiliated retail broker/dealers, we offer annuity and insurance products, including our proprietary products, as well as third party mutual funds and other investment products. Most of our clients for these products and services have accumulated significant capital, and our principal asset management strategy is to help protect their assets while taking advantage of opportunities for capital appreciation. Our asset management clients are referred to us through financial advisers and we work with these advisers to develop portfolios consisting of individual securities, mutual funds (including our own proprietary funds), exchange traded funds and variable annuities designed to meet each clients particular investment objectives. For each of these products we receive a management fee based upon the amount of assets under management. For the managed money market, the 10 largest companies comprise over 75% of the market based on the fourth quarter 2006 Managed Account Research published by Cerulli Associates (Cerulli Research). This market is highly competitive, where service, convenience, product offerings and price differentiate competitors in the marketplace. We have targeted to compete primarily in the managed account service provider market, otherwise known as the turnkey asset management platform market. We provide client advice, asset allocation, products and prepackaged support, services and technology to the independent advisor channel. Since many of our associates have previous experience in this channel, we have been able to effectively tailor our products and services to meet their needs. This has been a competitive advantage as we have seen double digit organic growth in the last few years. We have expanded our presence in the turnkey asset management platform market through the acquisition of AssetMark. The combined resources of Genworth Financial Asset Management (GFAM) and AssetMark, 13 Table of Contents will provide us with the opportunity to become a leading competitor in the turnkey asset management platform marketplace. As of December 31, 2006, we were ranked third by the Cerulli Research in the turnkey asset management platform market with more than 85,000 accounts and $17.2 billion of assets under management. We distribute these products and services through more than 4,000 independent investment advisory professionals and more than 2,400 financial professionals affiliated with our retail broker/dealers. Variable annuities We offer variable annuities that allow the contractholder to make payments into a separate account that is divided into sub accounts that invest in underlying investments. The contractholder also has an option to make allocations to a guaranteed interest rate account that is a part of our general account. All allocations are determined by the contractholder. Like a deferred fixed annuity, a variable annuity has an accumulation period and a payout period. The main difference between our fixed annuity products and our variable annuity products is that the variable annuities allow the contractholder to allocate all or a portion of his account value to separate accounts that invest in investment accounts that are distinct from our general account. Assets allocated to each separate account have sub accounts that track the performance of selected investments. Except as described below, there is no guaranteed minimum rate of return in these sub accounts, and the contractholder bears the entire risk associated with the performance of these sub accounts. Some of our variable annuities also permit the contractholder to allocate all or a portion of his account value to our general account, in which case we credit interest at specified rates, subject to certain guaranteed minimums. Variable annuities provide us with fee based revenue in the form of expense and risk charges and, in some cases, mortality charges. The fees equal a percentage of the contractholders assets in the separate account and typically range from 0.75% to 2.45% per annum depending on the features and options within a contract. We also receive fees charged on assets allocated to our separate account to cover administrative costs and, in some cases, a distribution fee from the underlying investments in which assets are invested. Our variable annuity contracts generally provide a basic guaranteed minimum death benefit (GMDB), which provides a minimum account value to be paid upon the annuitants death. Contractholders also have the option to purchase through riders, at an additional charge, enhanced death benefits. Assuming every annuitant died on December 31, 2006, as of that date, contracts with death benefit features not covered by reinsurance had an account value of $4.2 billion and a related death benefit exposure of $15 million net amount at risk. Our Income Distribution Series of variable annuity products and riders provides the contractholder with a guaranteed minimum income stream that they cannot outlive, along with an opportunity to participate in market appreciation, but reduce some of the risks to insurers that generally accompany traditional products with guaranteed minimum income benefits. We are targeting people who are focused on building a personal portable retirement plan or are moving from the accumulation to the distribution phase of their retirement planning. With many employers moving away from traditional defined benefit pension plans to retirement plans, in October 2005 we responded by introducing ClearCourse&reg;, a group variable annuity. ClearCourse&reg; is designed to be an investment option within a retirement plan. It offers participants the ability to build guaranteed retirement income while maintaining liquidity and growth potential. ClearCourse&reg; provides participants with the ability to access defined benefit like features within a defined contribution environment and is distributed via direct salespeople and through defined contribution plan record keepers. As of December 31, 2006, five plan sponsors have selected ClearCourse&reg; as an investment option for their retirement plans. In addition, we are working with three record keepers to make ClearCourse&reg; available as part of their standard service offering. We anticipate these arrangements to be operational in 2007. We continue to see strong interest from plan sponsors and record keepers. There are numerous competitors in this market segment within all major distribution channels that we sell through banks, national stockbrokerage firms and independent broker/dealers. We have focused on income 14 Table of Contents distribution products, where we believe consumers are seeking value and where we offer a broad array of products allowing consumers to opt for lifetime income beginning immediately or deferring until such time as they wish to access the income stream. We have been an early mover in this market space and we believe we are well positioned to compete. Institutional Asset Management Services Through an arrangement with GE Asset Management Incorporated (GEAM), we offer a broad range of institutional asset management services to third parties. Until December 31, 2006, we managed a pool of municipal GICs issued by affiliates of GE. As of January 1, 2007, we now provide transition and consulting services to the GE affiliates for their municipal GICs through December 31, 2008. For additional details on these arrangements, see note 17 to our consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. As of or for the years endedDecember 31, (Amounts in millions) 2006 2005 2004 Total revenues U.S. mortgage insurance $ 651 $ 603 $ 609 International mortgage insurance 860 611 481 Total revenues $ 1,511 $ 1,214 $ 1,090 Segment net operating income U.S. mortgage insurance $ 259 $ 238 $ 224 International mortgage insurance 355 269 202 Total segment net operating income 614 507 426 Net investment (gain) losses, net of taxes and other adjustments 4 Total segment net income $ 618 $ 507 $ 426 Total segment assets $ 8,456 $ 7,118 $ 6,428 U.S. mortgage insurance Overview The U.S. private mortgage insurance industry is defined in part by the requirements and practices of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other large mortgage investors. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac purchase residential mortgages from mortgage lenders and investors, as part of their governmental mandate to provide liquidity in the secondary mortgage market. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac purchased approximately 28% for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 and 31% for the year ended December 31, 2004 of all the mortgage loans originated in the U.S., according to statistics published by Inside Mortgage Finance. We believe the reduction in the percentage of mortgages purchased by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac has reduced the market size for flow 17 Table of Contents private mortgage insurance. Mortgages or mortgage securities guaranteed or held by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac totaled more than $3.9 trillion as of December 31, 2006, or approximately 39% of the total outstanding mortgage debt in the U.S. In connection with these activities, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac also have established mortgage loan origination, documentation, servicing and selling requirements and standards for the loans they purchase. In addition, Fannie Maes and Freddie Macs mortgage insurance requirements include specified insurance coverage levels and minimum financial strength ratings, currently at least AA by S&P and Aa3 by Moodys. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are government sponsored enterprises, and we refer to them as the GSEs. The GSEs may purchase mortgages with unpaid principal amounts up to a specified maximum. The maximum single family principal balance loan limit eligible for purchase by the GSEs is called the conforming loan limit. It is currently $417,000 and subject to annual adjustment. Each GSEs Congressional charter generally prohibits it from purchasing a mortgage where the loan to value ratio exceeds 80% of home value unless the portion of the unpaid principal balance of the mortgage which is in excess of 80% of the value of the property securing the mortgage is protected against default by lender recourse, participation or by a qualified insurer. As a result, high loan to value mortgages purchased by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac generally are insured with private mortgage insurance. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac purchased the majority of the flow loans we insured as of December 31, 2006. The majority of our U.S. mortgage insurance policies provide default loss protection on a portion (typically 10% to 40%) of the balance of an individual mortgage loan. Most of our primary mortgage insurance policies are flow insurance policies, which cover individual loans at the time the loan is originated. We also enter into bulk insurance transactions with lenders and investors in selected instances, under which we insure a portfolio of loans for a negotiated price. Loans that we insure in bulk transactions with loan to value ratios above 80% also may have flow mortgage insurance coverage. Bulk insurance constituted 6% of our new risk written for the year ended December 31, 2006 and less than 1% of our new risk written for each of the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. In addition to flow and bulk primary mortgage insurance, we have written a limited amount of mortgage insurance on a pool basis. Under pool insurance, the mortgage insurer provides coverage on a group of specified loans, typically for 100% of all losses on every loan in the portfolio, subject to an agreed aggregate loss limit. Products and services Primary mortgage insurance Flow insurance. Flow insurance is primary mortgage insurance placed on an individual loan when the loan is originated. Our primary mortgage insurance covers default risk on first mortgage loans generally secured by one to four unit residential properties and can be used to protect mortgage lenders and investors from default on any type of residential mortgage loan instrument that we have approved. Our insurance covers a specified coverage percentage of a claim amount consisting of unpaid loan principal, delinquent interest and certain expenses associated with the default and subsequent foreclosure. As the insurer, we generally are required to pay the coverage percentage of a claim amount specified in the primary policy, but we also have the option to pay the lender an amount equal to the unpaid loan principal, delinquent interest and certain expenses incurred with the default and foreclosure, and acquire title to the property. In addition, the claim amount may be reduced or eliminated if the loss on the defaulted loan is reduced as a result of the lenders disposition of the property. The lender selects the coverage percentage at the time the loan is originated, often to comply with investor requirements to reduce the loss exposure on loans purchased by the investor. In connection with flow insurance, we perform fee based contract underwriting services for mortgage lenders. The provision of underwriting services by mortgage insurers eliminates the duplicative lender and mortgage insurer underwriting activities and speeds the approval process. The principal contract underwriting service we provide is determining whether the data relating to a borrower and a proposed loan contained in a 18 Table of Contents mortgage loan application file complies with the lenders loan underwriting guidelines or the investors loan purchase requirements. Under the terms of our contract underwriting agreements, we agree to indemnify the lender against losses incurred in the event we make material errors in determining whether loans processed by our contract underwriters meet specified underwriting or purchase criteria, subject to contractual limitations on liability. New risk written by our contract underwriters represented 20% of our new risk written for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 24% for both years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. We also participate in reinsurance programs in which we share portions of our U.S. mortgage insurance risk written on loans originated or purchased by lenders with captive reinsurance companies affiliated with these lenders. In return, we cede to the captive reinsurers an agreed portion of our gross premiums on flow insurance written. New insurance written through the bulk channel generally is not subject to these arrangements. The following table sets forth selected financial information regarding our captive reinsurance arrangements, as of or for the periods indicated: As of or for the years endedDecember 31, 2006 2005 2004 Primary risk in force subject to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of total primary risk in force 63 % 65 % 66 % Gross written premiums ceded pursuant to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of total gross written premiums 23 % 24 % 24 % Primary new risk written subject to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of total primary new risk written 58 % 61 % 70 % We continue to develop innovative flow mortgage insurance products that are designed to attract first time homebuyers and expand the scope of the traditional mortgage insurance market. For example, in 2004, we launched our HomeOpeners&reg; products MonthlyPlus, PaymentPlus, LenderPlus and in 2006, Value 40. Our MonthlyPlus product combines a mortgage insurance policy with involuntary unemployment coverage on mortgage payments for a specified period of time in the event of involuntary job loss or accidental death. Our PaymentPlus and LenderPlus products are designed to compete with simultaneous second mortgages, as described below under Competition Mortgage lenders and other investors. Our Value 40 product offers mortgage insurance on loans by leveraging the combination of a 40 year term with a 10 year interest only period. Bulk insurance. Under our primary bulk insurance, we insure a portfolio of loans in a single, bulk transaction. Generally, in our bulk insurance, the individual loans in the portfolio are insured to specified levels of coverage and there may be deductible provisions and aggregate loss limits applicable to all of the insured loans. We base the premium on our bulk insurance upon our evaluation of the overall risk of the insured loans included in a transaction and we negotiate the premium directly with the securitizer or other owner of the loans. Prior to 2006, the majority of our bulk insurance business was related to loans financed by lenders who participate in the mortgage programs sponsored by the Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLBs). In 2006, we increased our participation in the GSE low documentation, or Alt A, programs and began to provide bulk insurance on lender portfolios. With the recent issuance of guidance from U.S. federal financial regulators to financial institutions on risks related to non traditional mortgage, specifically the identification of mortgage insurance as a risk mitigant, we believe there to be an incremental opportunity for the mortgage insurance industry to provide bulk insurance on lender portfolios. We have participated in this opportunity and expect to continue to participate where we can adequately assess the underlying risk and can achieve our targeted risk adjusted returns. Premiums for bulk transactions generally are paid monthly by lenders, investors, or a securitization vehicle in connection with a securitization transaction or the sale of a loan portfolio. The loans we insure in bulk transactions typically consist of prime credit quality loans with loan to value ratios of 50% to 95%. We have generally avoided the sub prime segments of the market because we believe 19 Table of Contents market pricing for mortgage insurance on sub prime bulk transactions has not been adequate and we have had concerns regarding the volatility of this segment. However, we may consider insuring such loans in the future when we believe conditions would allow us to achieve our targeted risk adjusted returns. Our mortgage insurance coverage levels in bulk transactions typically range from 10% to 50%. Loans that we insure in bulk transactions with loan to value ratios above 80% typically have flow mortgage insurance, written either by us or another private mortgage insurer, which helps mitigate our exposure under these transactions. Pool insurance. Pool insurance generally covers the loss on a defaulted mortgage loan that either exceeds the claim payment under the primary coverage (if primary insurance is required on that loan) or the total loss (if that loan does not require primary insurance), in each case up to a stated aggregate loss limit on the pool. During 2005, we began writing pool insurance selectively for state housing finance agencies. In 2006, we began to write pool insurance on second lien mortgages, typically held in lender portfolios. These policies cover prime credit quality second lien mortgages and typically include aggregate stop loss provisions. We expect to continue to selectively participate where we can achieve our targeted risk adjusted returns. Customers Our principal mortgage insurance customers are originators of residential mortgage loans, such as mortgage banks, savings institutions, commercial banks, mortgage brokers, credit unions and other lenders, who typically determine which mortgage insurer or insurers they will use for the placement of mortgage insurance written on loans they originate. To obtain primary insurance written on a flow basis, a mortgage lender must first apply for and receive from us a mortgage guaranty master policy. In our bulk business, our primary customers are large lending institutions, the GSEs (Fannie Mae/Freddie Mac) and lenders who participate in the mortgage programs sponsored by the FHLBs. We are focused on expanding our presence throughout the mortgage loan market by providing superior customer sales support, product offerings designed to meet the specific needs of our customers, and technology products designed to enable customers to reduce costs and expand revenues. In addition, as discussed under Operations and Technology, we have developed web based technology services that enable our customers to interact more efficiently with us. Underwriting and pricing Loan applications for all loans we insure are reviewed to evaluate each individual borrowers credit strength and history, the characteristics of the loan and the value of the underlying property. We use FICO score as one indicator of a borrowers credit quality. Fair Isaac Company, or FICO, developed the FICO credit scoring model to calculate a FICO score based upon a borrowers credit history. The higher the credit score, the lower the likelihood that a borrower will default on a loan. FICO credit scores range up to 850, with a score of 620 or more generally viewed as a prime loan and a score below 620 generally viewed as a sub prime loan. A minus loans generally are loans where the borrowers have FICO credit scores between 575 and 660, and where the borrower has a blemished credit history. As of December 31, 2006, on a risk in force basis, approximately 92% of our primary insurance loans had FICO credit scores of at least 620, approximately 6% had FICO credit scores between 575 and 619, and approximately 2% had FICO scores of 574 or less. Loan applications for flow mortgage insurance are reviewed by our employees directly as part of our traditional underwriting process or by our contract underwriters as we process mortgage loan applications requiring mortgage insurance. The majority of our mortgage lender customers underwrite loan applications for mortgage insurance under a delegated underwriting program, in which we permit approved lenders to commit us to insure loans using underwriting guidelines we have previously approved. In underwriting bulk insurance transactions, we evaluate credit scores and loan characteristics of the loans in the portfolio and examine loan files on a sample basis. Each bulk transaction is assigned an overall claim rate based on a weighted average of the claim rates for each individual loan that comprises the transaction. 20 Table of Contents We also provide mortgage insurance for Alt A loans, which are originated under programs in which there is a reduced level of verification or disclosure of the borrowers income or assets; Interest Only loans which allows the borrower flexibility to pay interest only, or to pay interest and as much principal as desired, during an initial period of time; and Payment Option Adjustable Rate Mortgages, which typically provides four payment options that a borrower may select for the first 5 years of a loan. See selected financial information regarding our U.S. primary mortgage insurance loan portfolio in Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Distribution We distribute our mortgage insurance products through our dedicated sales force of more than 100 employees located throughout the U.S. This sales force primarily markets to financial institutions and mortgage originators, which in turn offer mortgage insurance products to borrowers. In addition to our field sales force, we also distribute our products through a telephone sales force serving our smaller lenders, as well as through our Action Center which provides live phone and web chat based support for all customer segments. Competition We compete primarily with U.S. and state government agencies, other private mortgage insurers, mortgage lenders and other investors, the GSEs and, potentially, the FHLBs. We also compete, indirectly, with structured transactions in the capital markets and with other financial instruments designed to mitigate credit risk. U.S. and state government agencies. We and other private mortgage insurers compete for flow business directly with U.S. federal and state governmental and quasi governmental agencies, principally the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and, to a lesser degree, the Veterans Administration (VA). In addition to competition from the FHA and the VA, we and other private mortgage insurers face competition from state supported mortgage insurance funds in several states, including California, Illinois and New York. Private mortgage insurers. The private mortgage insurance industry is highly competitive. The private mortgage insurance industry currently consists of seven mortgage insurers plus our company. Mortgage lenders and other investors. We and other mortgage insurers compete with transactions structured by mortgage lenders to avoid mortgage insurance on low down payment mortgage loans. These transactions include self insuring and simultaneous second loans, which separate a mortgage with a loan to value ratio of more than 80%, which generally would require mortgage insurance, into two loans, a first mortgage with a loan to value ratio of 80% and a simultaneous second mortgage for the excess portion of the loan. We are developing mortgage insurance products that seek to enhance the appeal of private mortgage insurance in view of the increasing volume of simultaneous second loans. For example, in 2004, we launched our HomeOpeners&reg; suite of products designed to compete more effectively with simultaneous second loans by offering consumers lower monthly payments, more deductible interest and involuntary job loss protection at no additional cost. We also compete with structured transactions in the capital markets and with other financial instruments designed to mitigate the risk of mortgage defaults, such as credit default swaps and credit linked notes, with lenders who forego mortgage insurance (self insure) on loans held in their portfolios, and with mortgage lenders who maintain captive mortgage insurance and reinsurance programs. The GSEs Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and The Federal Home Loans Banks. As the predominant purchasers of conventional mortgage loans in the U.S., Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac provide a direct link between mortgage 21 Table of Contents origination and capital markets. As discussed above under Primary mortgage insurance, most high loan to value mortgages purchased by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac are insured with private mortgage insurance issued by an insurer deemed qualified by the GSEs. Our mortgage insurance company is a qualified insurer with both GSEs. Private mortgage insurers may be subject to competition from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to the extent the GSEs are compensated for assuming default risk that would otherwise be insured by the private mortgage insurance industry. Private mortgage insurers must satisfy requirements set by the GSEs to be eligible to insure loans sold to the GSEs, and the GSEs have the ability to implement new eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers. They also have the authority to change the pricing arrangements for purchasing retained participation mortgages as compared to insured mortgages, increase or reduce required mortgage insurance coverage percentages, and alter or liberalize underwriting standards on low down payment mortgages they purchase. In addition to the GSEs, FHLBs purchase single family conforming mortgage loans. Although not required to do so, the FHLBs currently use mortgage insurance on substantially all mortgage loans with a loan to value ratio above 80%. International mortgage insurance We have significant mortgage insurance operations in Australia and Canada, two of the largest markets for mortgage insurance products outside the U.S., as well as smaller operations in New Zealand and the developing markets in Europe, Mexico and Japan. The mortgage loan markets in Canada and Australia are well developed. Although mortgage insurance plays an important role in each of these markets, the markets vary significantly and are influenced in large part by the different cultural, economic and regulatory conditions in each market. We believe the following factors have contributed to the growth of robust mortgage insurance demand in these countries: a desire by lenders to offer low down payment mortgage loans to facilitate the expansion of their business; the recognition of the higher default risk inherent in low down payment lending and the need for specialized underwriting expertise to conduct this business prudently; government housing policies that support increased homeownership; government policies that support the use of securitization and secondary market mortgage sales, in which third party credit enhancement is often used, as a source of funding and liquidity for mortgage lending; and bank regulatory capital policies that provide incentives to lenders to transfer some or all of the increased credit risk on low down payment mortgages to third parties, such as mortgage insurers. We believe a number of these factors are becoming evident in certain markets throughout Europe, Latin America and Asia and provide opportunities for us to expand our mortgage insurance business in those markets. Based upon our experience in the mature markets, we believe a favorable regulatory framework is important to the development of an environment in which lenders routinely extend high loan to value loans and use products such as mortgage insurance to protect against default risk or obtain capital relief. As a result, we have advocated governmental and policymaking agencies throughout our markets to adopt legislative and regulatory policies supporting increased homeownership and capital relief for lenders and mortgage investors that insure their loan portfolios with private mortgage insurance. Although the products we offer in each of our international 22 Table of Contents markets differ, they represent substantially similar risk propositions and involve similar business practices. We have developed significant expertise in mature markets, and we leverage this experience in developing markets as we continue to encourage regulatory authorities to implement incentives for private mortgage insurance as an effective risk management strategy. We believe the revisions to a set of regulatory rules and procedures governing global bank capital standards that were introduced by the Basel Committee of the Bank for International Settlements, known as Basel II, also may encourage further growth of international mortgage insurance. Basel II has been designed to reward banks that have developed effective risk management systems by allowing them to hold less capital than banks with less effective systems. For example, Basel II may reward a lender that transfers some risk of mortgage default to a third party insurer by reducing the amount of capital that the lender must hold to back a mortgage. Basel II was finalized and issued in June 2004; however, its adoption by individual countries internationally and in the U.S. is ongoing. Therefore, we cannot predict the benefits that ultimately will be provided to lenders, or how any such benefits may affect the opportunities for the growth of mortgage insurance. Certain markets in Europe, Latin America and Asia have strong demand for housing, but are underserved by the existing housing finance systems. As a result, we believe that mortgage insurance could enhance the overall scale, effectiveness and efficiency of these mortgage markets. We expect lenders in these countries will seek to expand their consumer mortgage loan portfolios, while maintaining strong risk and capital management routines. With the expected implementation of the new Basel II standards, we believe we will be well positioned to assist lenders in these markets in meeting those goals and in complying with the anticipated complexity of the risk based capital and operating standards. Canada We entered the Canadian mortgage insurance market in 1995 with our acquisition of certain assets and employees from the Mortgage Insurance Corporation of Canada, and we now operate in every province and territory. We are currently the leading private mortgage insurer in the Canadian market. Products We offer two products in Canada: primary flow insurance and portfolio credit enhancement insurance. Our principal product is primary flow insurance, which is similar to the primary flow insurance we offer in the U.S. Regulations in Canada require the use of mortgage insurance for all mortgage loans extended by banks, trust companies and insurers, where the loan to value ratio exceeds 75%. Mortgage insurance in Canada is typically single premium and provides 100% coverage, in contrast to the U.S., where monthly premiums and lower coverage levels are typical. Under the single premium plan, lenders usually include the single premium as a part of the aggregate loan amount and pay a single premium to us as the mortgage insurer. We, in turn, record the proceeds to unearned premium reserves, invest those proceeds and recognize the premiums over time in accordance with the expected pattern of risk emergence. We also provide portfolio credit enhancement insurance to lenders that have originated loans with loan to value ratios of less than 75%. These policies provide lenders with immediate capital relief from applicable bank regulatory capital requirements and facilitate the securitization of mortgages in the Canadian market. In both primary flow insurance and portfolio policies, our mortgage insurance in Canada provides insurance coverage for the entire unpaid loan balance, including interest, selling costs and expenses, following the sale of the underlying property. Government guarantee We have an agreement with the Canadian government under which it guarantees the benefits payable under a mortgage insurance policy, less 10% of the original principal amount of an insured loan, in the event that we 23 Table of Contents fail to make claim payments with respect to that loan because of insolvency. We pay the Canadian government a risk premium for this guarantee and make other payments to a reserve fund in respect of the governments obligation. Because banks are not required to maintain regulatory capital on an asset backed by a sovereign guarantee, our 90% sovereign guarantee permits lenders purchasing our mortgage insurance to reduce their regulatory capital charges for credit risks on mortgages by 90%. Competitors Currently, our primary mortgage insurance competitor in Canada is the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC) which is a Crown corporation owned by the Canadian government, although there have been and may continue to be new competitors entering the Canadian market. Because CMHC is a government owned entity, its mortgage insurance provides lenders with 100% capital relief from bank regulatory requirements. We compete with CMHC primarily based upon our reputation for high quality customer service, quick decision making on insurance applications, strong underwriting expertise and flexibility in terms of product development. In addition, as in other markets, we compete in Canada with alternative products and financial structures, such as credit default swaps, which are designed to transfer credit default risk on mortgage loans. Australia We entered the Australian mortgage insurance market in 1997 with our acquisition of the operating assets of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation (HLIC) from the Australian government. We also entered the New Zealand mortgage insurance market in 1999 as an expansion of our Australian operations. In 2006, we acquired Vero Lenders Mortgage Insurance Limited. Products In Australia and New Zealand, we offer primary flow insurance, known as lenders mortgage insurance (LMI), and portfolio credit enhancement policies. Our principal product is LMI, which is similar to the primary flow insurance we offer in Canada, with single premiums and 100% coverage. Lenders usually collect the single premium from prospective borrowers at the time the loan proceeds are advanced and remit the amount to us as the mortgage insurer. We in turn record the proceeds to unearned premium reserves, invest those proceeds and recognize the premiums over time in accordance with the expected pattern of risk emergence. We provide LMI on a flow basis to two types of customers: banks, building societies and credit unions; and non bank mortgage originators, called mortgage managers. Banks, building societies and credit unions generally acquire LMI only for residential mortgage loans with loan to value ratios above 80%. Under Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) requirements, effective January 1, 2006, reduced capital requirements apply to high loan to value residential mortgages only if they have been insured by a mortgage insurance company that is regulated by APRA or is subject to comparable regulation in its home jurisdiction and is otherwise acceptable to APRA. After October 1, 2004, non standard loans with a loan to value ratio above 60% are entitled to a reduced capital requirement only if they meet strict requirements as established by APRA or are insured by a qualified LMI. APRAs regulations currently require APRA regulated lenders to determine the criteria for determining if a loan is a non standard type loan. Mortgage managers fund their operations primarily through the issuance of mortgage backed securities. Because they are not regulated by APRA, they do not have the same capital incentives as banks for acquiring LMI. However, they use LMI as the principal form of credit enhancement for these securities and generally purchase insurance for every loan they originate, without regard to the loan to value ratio. We also provide portfolio credit enhancement policies to APRA regulated lenders that have originated loans for securitization in the Australian market. Portfolio mortgage insurance serves as an important source of credit 24 Table of Contents enhancement for the Australian securitization market, and our portfolio credit enhancement coverage generally is purchased for low loan to value, seasoned loans written by APRA regulated institutions. To date, a market for these portfolio credit enhancement policies has not developed in New Zealand to the same extent as in Australia. Competitors The Australian and New Zealand flow mortgage insurance markets currently are served by one other independent LMI company, as well as various lender affiliated captive mortgage insurance companies. We compete primarily based upon our reputation for high quality customer service, quick decision making on insurance applications, strong underwriting expertise and flexibility in terms of product development. As in Canada, our products also compete in Australia and New Zealand with alternative products and financial structures that are designed to transfer credit default risk on mortgage loans. We believe other U.S. mortgage insurance providers are considering opportunities in Australia. APRAs license conditions require Australian mortgage insurance companies, including ours, to be monocline insurers, which are insurance companies that offer just one type of insurance product. Europe We began our European operations in the U.K., which is Europes largest market for mortgage loan originations. In recent years, we expanded into seven additional countries and we continue to explore opportunities in other European countries. Products Our European business currently consists principally of primary flow insurance. As is the case in our other non U.S. markets, most primary flow insurance policies written in Europe are structured with single premium payments. Our primary flow insurance generally provides first loss coverage in the event of default on a portion (typically 10% to 20%) of the balance of an individual mortgage loan. We also offer portfolio credit enhancement to lenders that have originated loans for securitization in select European markets. Competitors Our European business faces competition from both traditional mortgage insurance companies as well as providers of alternative credit enhancement products. Our competitors are both public and private entities including public mortgage guarantee facilities. Competition from alternative credit enhancement products include personal guarantees on high loan to value loans, second mortgages and bank guarantees, captive insurance companies organized by lenders, and alternative forms of risk transfer including capital markets solutions. We believe that our global expertise, coverage flexibility, and strong ratings provide a valuable offering compared with competitors and alternative products. International Distribution and Customers We maintain a dedicated sales force that markets our mortgage insurance products internationally to lenders in countries where we provide mortgage insurance. As in the U.S. market, our sales force markets to financial institutions and mortgage originators, who in turn offer mortgage insurance products to borrowers. The ten largest mortgage originators in Canada and Australia, consisting of banks, trust companies, mortgage managers and credit unions, collectively provide the majority of the financing for residential mortgage financing in their respective countries. Other market participants include regional banks, trust companies, credit unions and building societies. In Europe our customers are primarily banks and mortgage investors. 25 Table of Contents Corporate and Other Our Corporate and Other activities include debt financing expenses that are incurred at our holding company level, unallocated corporate income and expenses, and the results of a small, non core Bermuda based reinsurance business, that is managed outside our operating segments. International Operations Information regarding our U.S. and international operations is presented in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Distribution We distribute our mortgage insurance products through our dedicated sales force of more than 100 employees located throughout the U.S. This sales force primarily markets to financial institutions and mortgage originators, which in turn offer mortgage insurance products to borrowers. In addition to our field sales force, we also distribute our products through a telephone sales force serving our smaller lenders, as well as through our Action Center which provides live phone and web chat based support for all customer segments. Competition We compete primarily with U.S. and state government agencies, other private mortgage insurers, mortgage lenders and other investors, the GSEs and, potentially, the FHLBs. We also compete, indirectly, with structured transactions in the capital markets and with other financial instruments designed to mitigate credit risk. U.S. and state government agencies. We and other private mortgage insurers compete for flow business directly with U.S. federal and state governmental and quasi governmental agencies, principally the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and, to a lesser degree, the Veterans Administration (VA). In addition to competition from the FHA and the VA, we and other private mortgage insurers face competition from state supported mortgage insurance funds in several states, including California, Illinois and New York. Private mortgage insurers. The private mortgage insurance industry is highly competitive. The private mortgage insurance industry currently consists of seven mortgage insurers plus our company. Mortgage lenders and other investors. We and other mortgage insurers compete with transactions structured by mortgage lenders to avoid mortgage insurance on low down payment mortgage loans. These transactions include self insuring and simultaneous second loans, which separate a mortgage with a loan to value ratio of more than 80%, which generally would require mortgage insurance, into two loans, a first mortgage with a loan to value ratio of 80% and a simultaneous second mortgage for the excess portion of the loan. We are developing mortgage insurance products that seek to enhance the appeal of private mortgage insurance in view of the increasing volume of simultaneous second loans. For example, in 2004, we launched our HomeOpeners&reg; suite of products designed to compete more effectively with simultaneous second loans by offering consumers lower monthly payments, more deductible interest and involuntary job loss protection at no additional cost. We also compete with structured transactions in the capital markets and with other financial instruments designed to mitigate the risk of mortgage defaults, such as credit default swaps and credit linked notes, with lenders who forego mortgage insurance (self insure) on loans held in their portfolios, and with mortgage lenders who maintain captive mortgage insurance and reinsurance programs. The GSEs Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and The Federal Home Loans Banks. As the predominant purchasers of conventional mortgage loans in the U.S., Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac provide a direct link between mortgage 21 Table of Contents origination and capital markets. As discussed above under Primary mortgage insurance, most high loan to value mortgages purchased by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac are insured with private mortgage insurance issued by an insurer deemed qualified by the GSEs. Our mortgage insurance company is a qualified insurer with both GSEs. Private mortgage insurers may be subject to competition from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to the extent the GSEs are compensated for assuming default risk that would otherwise be insured by the private mortgage insurance industry. Private mortgage insurers must satisfy requirements set by the GSEs to be eligible to insure loans sold to the GSEs, and the GSEs have the ability to implement new eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers. They also have the authority to change the pricing arrangements for purchasing retained participation mortgages as compared to insured mortgages, increase or reduce required mortgage insurance coverage percentages, and alter or liberalize underwriting standards on low down payment mortgages they purchase. In addition to the GSEs, FHLBs purchase single family conforming mortgage loans. Although not required to do so, the FHLBs currently use mortgage insurance on substantially all mortgage loans with a loan to value ratio above 80%. International mortgage insurance We have significant mortgage insurance operations in Australia and Canada, two of the largest markets for mortgage insurance products outside the U.S., as well as smaller operations in New Zealand and the developing markets in Europe, Mexico and Japan. The mortgage loan markets in Canada and Australia are well developed. Although mortgage insurance plays an important role in each of these markets, the markets vary significantly and are influenced in large part by the different cultural, economic and regulatory conditions in each market. We believe the following factors have contributed to the growth of robust mortgage insurance demand in these countries: a desire by lenders to offer low down payment mortgage loans to facilitate the expansion of their business; the recognition of the higher default risk inherent in low down payment lending and the need for specialized underwriting expertise to conduct this business prudently; government housing policies that support increased homeownership; government policies that support the use of securitization and secondary market mortgage sales, in which third party credit enhancement is often used, as a source of funding and liquidity for mortgage lending; and bank regulatory capital policies that provide incentives to lenders to transfer some or all of the increased credit risk on low down payment mortgages to third parties, such as mortgage insurers. We believe a number of these factors are becoming evident in certain markets throughout Europe, Latin America and Asia and provide opportunities for us to expand our mortgage insurance business in those markets. Based upon our experience in the mature markets, we believe a favorable regulatory framework is important to the development of an environment in which lenders routinely extend high loan to value loans and use products such as mortgage insurance to protect against default risk or obtain capital relief. As a result, we have advocated governmental and policymaking agencies throughout our markets to adopt legislative and regulatory policies supporting increased homeownership and capital relief for lenders and mortgage investors that insure their loan portfolios with private mortgage insurance. Although the products we offer in each of our international 22 Table of Contents markets differ, they represent substantially similar risk propositions and involve similar business practices. We have developed significant expertise in mature markets, and we leverage this experience in developing markets as we continue to encourage regulatory authorities to implement incentives for private mortgage insurance as an effective risk management strategy. We believe the revisions to a set of regulatory rules and procedures governing global bank capital standards that were introduced by the Basel Committee of the Bank for International Settlements, known as Basel II, also may encourage further growth of international mortgage insurance. Basel II has been designed to reward banks that have developed effective risk management systems by allowing them to hold less capital than banks with less effective systems. For example, Basel II may reward a lender that transfers some risk of mortgage default to a third party insurer by reducing the amount of capital that the lender must hold to back a mortgage. Basel II was finalized and issued in June 2004; however, its adoption by individual countries internationally and in the U.S. is ongoing. Therefore, we cannot predict the benefits that ultimately will be provided to lenders, or how any such benefits may affect the opportunities for the growth of mortgage insurance. Certain markets in Europe, Latin America and Asia have strong demand for housing, but are underserved by the existing housing finance systems. As a result, we believe that mortgage insurance could enhance the overall scale, effectiveness and efficiency of these mortgage markets. We expect lenders in these countries will seek to expand their consumer mortgage loan portfolios, while maintaining strong risk and capital management routines. With the expected implementation of the new Basel II standards, we believe we will be well positioned to assist lenders in these markets in meeting those goals and in complying with the anticipated complexity of the risk based capital and operating standards. Canada We entered the Canadian mortgage insurance market in 1995 with our acquisition of certain assets and employees from the Mortgage Insurance Corporation of Canada, and we now operate in every province and territory. We are currently the leading private mortgage insurer in the Canadian market. Products We offer two products in Canada: primary flow insurance and portfolio credit enhancement insurance. Our principal product is primary flow insurance, which is similar to the primary flow insurance we offer in the U.S. Regulations in Canada require the use of mortgage insurance for all mortgage loans extended by banks, trust companies and insurers, where the loan to value ratio exceeds 75%. Mortgage insurance in Canada is typically single premium and provides 100% coverage, in contrast to the U.S., where monthly premiums and lower coverage levels are typical. Under the single premium plan, lenders usually include the single premium as a part of the aggregate loan amount and pay a single premium to us as the mortgage insurer. We, in turn, record the proceeds to unearned premium reserves, invest those proceeds and recognize the premiums over time in accordance with the expected pattern of risk emergence. We also provide portfolio credit enhancement insurance to lenders that have originated loans with loan to value ratios of less than 75%. These policies provide lenders with immediate capital relief from applicable bank regulatory capital requirements and facilitate the securitization of mortgages in the Canadian market. In both primary flow insurance and portfolio policies, our mortgage insurance in Canada provides insurance coverage for the entire unpaid loan balance, including interest, selling costs and expenses, following the sale of the underlying property. Government guarantee We have an agreement with the Canadian government under which it guarantees the benefits payable under a mortgage insurance policy, less 10% of the original principal amount of an insured loan, in the event that we 23 Table of Contents fail to make claim payments with respect to that loan because of insolvency. We pay the Canadian government a risk premium for this guarantee and make other payments to a reserve fund in respect of the governments obligation. Because banks are not required to maintain regulatory capital on an asset backed by a sovereign guarantee, our 90% sovereign guarantee permits lenders purchasing our mortgage insurance to reduce their regulatory capital charges for credit risks on mortgages by 90%. Competitors Currently, our primary mortgage insurance competitor in Canada is the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC) which is a Crown corporation owned by the Canadian government, although there have been and may continue to be new competitors entering the Canadian market. Because CMHC is a government owned entity, its mortgage insurance provides lenders with 100% capital relief from bank regulatory requirements. We compete with CMHC primarily based upon our reputation for high quality customer service, quick decision making on insurance applications, strong underwriting expertise and flexibility in terms of product development. In addition, as in other markets, we compete in Canada with alternative products and financial structures, such as credit default swaps, which are designed to transfer credit default risk on mortgage loans. Australia We entered the Australian mortgage insurance market in 1997 with our acquisition of the operating assets of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation (HLIC) from the Australian government. We also entered the New Zealand mortgage insurance market in 1999 as an expansion of our Australian operations. In 2006, we acquired Vero Lenders Mortgage Insurance Limited. Products In Australia and New Zealand, we offer primary flow insurance, known as lenders mortgage insurance (LMI), and portfolio credit enhancement policies. Our principal product is LMI, which is similar to the primary flow insurance we offer in Canada, with single premiums and 100% coverage. Lenders usually collect the single premium from prospective borrowers at the time the loan proceeds are advanced and remit the amount to us as the mortgage insurer. We in turn record the proceeds to unearned premium reserves, invest those proceeds and recognize the premiums over time in accordance with the expected pattern of risk emergence. We provide LMI on a flow basis to two types of customers: banks, building societies and credit unions; and non bank mortgage originators, called mortgage managers. Banks, building societies and credit unions generally acquire LMI only for residential mortgage loans with loan to value ratios above 80%. Under Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) requirements, effective January 1, 2006, reduced capital requirements apply to high loan to value residential mortgages only if they have been insured by a mortgage insurance company that is regulated by APRA or is subject to comparable regulation in its home jurisdiction and is otherwise acceptable to APRA. After October 1, 2004, non standard loans with a loan to value ratio above 60% are entitled to a reduced capital requirement only if they meet strict requirements as established by APRA or are insured by a qualified LMI. APRAs regulations currently require APRA regulated lenders to determine the criteria for determining if a loan is a non standard type loan. Mortgage managers fund their operations primarily through the issuance of mortgage backed securities. Because they are not regulated by APRA, they do not have the same capital incentives as banks for acquiring LMI. However, they use LMI as the principal form of credit enhancement for these securities and generally purchase insurance for every loan they originate, without regard to the loan to value ratio. We also provide portfolio credit enhancement policies to APRA regulated lenders that have originated loans for securitization in the Australian market. Portfolio mortgage insurance serves as an important source of credit 24 Table of Contents enhancement for the Australian securitization market, and our portfolio credit enhancement coverage generally is purchased for low loan to value, seasoned loans written by APRA regulated institutions. To date, a market for these portfolio credit enhancement policies has not developed in New Zealand to the same extent as in Australia. Competitors The Australian and New Zealand flow mortgage insurance markets currently are served by one other independent LMI company, as well as various lender affiliated captive mortgage insurance companies. We compete primarily based upon our reputation for high quality customer service, quick decision making on insurance applications, strong underwriting expertise and flexibility in terms of product development. As in Canada, our products also compete in Australia and New Zealand with alternative products and financial structures that are designed to transfer credit default risk on mortgage loans. We believe other U.S. mortgage insurance providers are considering opportunities in Australia. APRAs license conditions require Australian mortgage insurance companies, including ours, to be monocline insurers, which are insurance companies that offer just one type of insurance product. Europe We began our European operations in the U.K., which is Europes largest market for mortgage loan originations. In recent years, we expanded into seven additional countries and we continue to explore opportunities in other European countries. Products Our European business currently consists principally of primary flow insurance. As is the case in our other non U.S. markets, most primary flow insurance policies written in Europe are structured with single premium payments. Our primary flow insurance generally provides first loss coverage in the event of default on a portion (typically 10% to 20%) of the balance of an individual mortgage loan. We also offer portfolio credit enhancement to lenders that have originated loans for securitization in select European markets. Competitors Our European business faces competition from both traditional mortgage insurance companies as well as providers of alternative credit enhancement products. Our competitors are both public and private entities including public mortgage guarantee facilities. Competition from alternative credit enhancement products include personal guarantees on high loan to value loans, second mortgages and bank guarantees, captive insurance companies organized by lenders, and alternative forms of risk transfer including capital markets solutions. We believe that our global expertise, coverage flexibility, and strong ratings provide a valuable offering compared with competitors and alternative products. International Distribution and Customers We maintain a dedicated sales force that markets our mortgage insurance products internationally to lenders in countries where we provide mortgage insurance. As in the U.S. market, our sales force markets to financial institutions and mortgage originators, who in turn offer mortgage insurance products to borrowers. The ten largest mortgage originators in Canada and Australia, consisting of banks, trust companies, mortgage managers and credit unions, collectively provide the majority of the financing for residential mortgage financing in their respective countries. Other market participants include regional banks, trust companies, credit unions and building societies. In Europe our customers are primarily banks and mortgage investors. 25 Table of Contents Corporate and Other Our Corporate and Other activities include debt financing expenses that are incurred at our holding company level, unallocated corporate income and expenses, and the results of a small, non core Bermuda based reinsurance business, that is managed outside our operating segments. International Operations Information regarding our U.S. and international operations is presented in note 21 to the consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Cautionary note regarding forward looking statements and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Risks Relating to Our Businesses Interest rate fluctuations could adversely affect our business and profitability. Our insurance and investment products are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations and expose us to the risk that falling interest rates will reduce our spread, or the difference between the returns we earn on the investments that support our obligations under these products and the amounts that we must pay policyholders and contractholders. Because we may reduce the interest rates we credit on most of these products only at limited, pre established intervals, and because some of them have guaranteed minimum crediting rates, declines in interest rates may adversely affect the profitability of those products. During periods of increasing market interest rates, we may offer higher crediting rates on interest sensitive products, such as universal life insurance and fixed annuities, and we may increase crediting rates on in force products to keep these products competitive. In addition, rapidly rising interest rates may cause increased policy surrenders, withdrawals from life insurance policies and annuity contracts and requests for policy loans, as policyholders and contractholders shift assets into higher yielding investments. Increases in crediting rates, as well as surrenders and withdrawals, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our term life and long term care insurance products also expose us to the risk of interest rate fluctuations. The pricing and expected future profitability of these products are based in part on expected investment returns. Over time, term life and long term care insurance products generally produce positive cash flows as customers pay periodic premiums, which we invest as we receive them. Low interest rates may reduce our ability to achieve our targeted investment margins and may adversely affect the profitability of our term life and long term care insurance products. In the U.S. mortgage market, rising interest rates generally reduce the volume of new mortgage originations. A decline in the volume of new mortgage originations would have an adverse effect on our new mortgage insurance written. Rising interest rates also can increase the monthly mortgage payments for insured homeowners with adjustable rate mortgages (ARM) which could have the effect of increasing default rates on ARM loans and thereby increasing our exposure on our mortgage insurance policies. This is particularly relevant in our non U.S. mortgage insurance business, where ARMs are the predominant mortgage product. ARMs also have increased as a percentage of the U.S. mortgage loans that we insure. Declining interest rates increase the rate at which insured borrowers refinance their existing mortgages, thereby resulting in cancellations of the mortgage insurance covering the refinanced loans. Declining interest rates may also contribute to home price appreciation, which may provide insured borrowers in the U.S. with the option of canceling their mortgage insurance coverage earlier than we anticipated in pricing that coverage. These cancellations could have an adverse effect on our results from our mortgage insurance business. Interest rate fluctuations also could have an adverse effect on the results of our investment portfolios. During periods of declining market interest rates, the interest we receive on variable interest rate investments decreases. In addition, during those periods, we are forced to reinvest the cash we receive as interest or return of 51 Table of Contents principal on our investments in lower yielding high grade instruments or in lower credit instruments to maintain comparable returns. Issuers of fixed income securities also may decide to prepay their obligations in order to borrow at lower market rates, which exacerbates the risk that we may have to invest the cash proceeds of these securities in lower yielding or lower credit instruments. Interest rates during 2003 reached an historic low and have increased through 2006. Downturns and volatility in equity markets could adversely affect our business and profitability. Significant downturns and volatility in equity markets could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in two principal ways. First, market downturns and volatility may discourage purchases of separate account products, such as variable annuities and variable life insurance, that have returns linked to the performance of the equity markets and may cause some existing customers to withdraw cash values or reduce investments in those products. Second, downturns and volatility in equity markets can have an adverse effect on the revenues and returns from our mutual fund wrapped and separately managed account products and services. Because these products and services generate fees generally from the value of assets under management, a decline in the equity markets could reduce our revenues by reducing the value of the investment assets we manage. Defaults in our fixed income securities and commercial mortgage loan portfolio may reduce our income. Issuers of the fixed income securities and commercial mortgage loans that we own may default on principal and interest payments. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, we had fixed maturities in or near default (where the issuer has missed payment of principal or interest or entered bankruptcy) with a fair value of $16 million and $47 million, respectively. An economic downturn, or a variety of other factors could cause declines in the value of our fixed maturities portfolio and cause our net income to decline. A downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Financial strength ratings, which various ratings organizations publish as measures of an insurance companys ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in our products, the ability to market our products and our competitive position. Our principal life insurance companies currently have financial strength ratings of AA (Very Strong) from S&P and Fitch and Aa3 (Excellent) from Moodys. Our mortgage insurance companies currently have financial strength ratings of AA (Very Strong) from S&P and Fitch, Aa2 (Excellent) from Moodys and or AA (Superior) from DBRS. The AA and AA ratings are the third and fourth highest of S&Ps 20 ratings categories, respectively. The Aa2 and Aa3 ratings are the third and fourth highest of Moodys 21 ratings categories, respectively. The AA and AA ratings are the third and fourth highest of Fitchs 24 ratings categories. The AA rating is the second highest of DBRSs 10 ratings categories. A downgrade in our financial strength ratings, or the announced potential for a downgrade, could have a significantly adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including: reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products; adversely affecting our relationships with independent sales intermediaries and our dedicated sales specialists; materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders; requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance or obtain reasonable pricing on reinsurance; and increasing our cost of borrowing. 52 Table of Contents If our mortgage insurance companies financial strength ratings decrease below the thresholds established by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (AA by S&P and Aa3 by Moodys), we would not be able to insure mortgages purchased by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. As of December 31, 2006, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac purchased the majority of the flow loans we insured in the U.S. An inability to insure mortgage loans sold to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, or their transfer of our existing policies to an alternative mortgage insurer, would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. If our reserves for future policy claims are inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserve liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We calculate and maintain reserves for estimated future payments of claims to our policyholders and contractholders in accordance with U.S. GAAP and industry accounting practices. We release these reserves as those future obligations are extinguished. The reserves we establish necessarily reflect estimates and actuarial assumptions with regard to our future experience. These estimates and actuarial assumptions involve the exercise of significant judgment. Our future financial results depend significantly upon the extent to which our actual future experience is consistent with the assumptions we have used in pricing our products and determining our reserves. Many factors can affect future experience, including economic and social conditions, inflation, healthcare costs, policyholder persistency (resulting in adverse claims experience), and changes in doctrines of legal liability and damage awards in litigation. Therefore, we cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts we will pay for actual claims or the timing of those payments. We regularly monitor our reserves. If we conclude that our reserves are insufficient to cover actual or expected policy and contract benefits and claims payments, we would be required to increase our reserves and incur income statement charges for the period in which we make the determination, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As a holding company, we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us to pay dividends and to meet our obligations. We act as a holding company for our insurance subsidiaries and do not have any significant operations of our own. Dividends from our subsidiaries and permitted payments to us under our tax sharing arrangements with our subsidiaries are our principal sources of cash to pay stockholder dividends and to meet our obligations. These obligations include our operating expenses, interest and principal on our current and any future borrowings and contract adjustment payments on our Equity Units. These obligations also include amounts we owe to GE under the tax matters agreement that we and GE entered into in connection with our IPO. If the cash we receive from our subsidiaries pursuant to dividend payment and tax sharing arrangements is insufficient for us to fund any of these obligations, we may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets. The payment of dividends and other distributions to us by our insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. In general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits are deemed extraordinary and require insurance regulatory approval. In addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of ordinary dividends or other payments by our insurance subsidiaries to us (such as a payment under a tax sharing agreement or for employee or other services) if they determine that such payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us, and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders, are also subject to various conditions imposed by the rating agencies for us to maintain our ratings. Intense competition could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share and profitability. Our businesses are subject to intense competition. We believe the principal competitive factors in the sale of our products are product features, price, commission structure, marketing and distribution arrangements, brand, reputation, financial strength ratings and service. 53 Table of Contents Many other companies actively compete for sales in our protection and retirement income and investments markets, including other major insurers, banks, other financial institutions, mutual fund and money asset management firms and specialty and capital markets providers. In addition, alternative products that leverage the capital markets could compete with traditional insurance products and reduce our market share. The principal direct and indirect competitors for our U.S. and increasingly, international mortgage insurance businesses include other private mortgage insurers and structured transactions in the capital markets and with other financial instruments designed to manage credit risk, such as credit default swaps and credit linked notes, with lenders who forego mortgage insurance, or self insure, on loans held in their portfolios, and with lenders that provide mortgage reinsurance through captive mortgage reinsurance programs. Further, we also compete with governmental and quasi governmental agencies, including in the U.S., the FHA and to a lesser degree, the VA, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. In Canada and some European countries, our mortgage insurance business competes directly with government entities, which provide comparable mortgage insurance. Government entities with which we compete typically do not have the same capital requirements and do not have the same profit objectives as we do. In many of our product lines, we face competition from competitors that have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower profitability expectations or have higher financial strength ratings than we do. Many competitors offer similar products and use similar distribution channels. The substantial expansion of banks and insurance companies distribution capacities and expansion of product features in recent years have intensified pressure on margins and production levels and have increased the level of competition in many of our business lines. In addition, in recent years, banks, insurance companies and other financial services companies, many of which offer products similar to ours and use similar distribution channels, have consolidated. Further consolidation among banks, insurance companies and other financial services companies could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations if the surviving entity requires more favorable terms than we had previously been offering to one or more of the combined companies or if it elects not to continue to do business with us following the consolidation. Reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various business segments. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business. If the counterparties to our reinsurance arrangements or to the derivative instruments we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We use reinsurance and derivative instruments to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. Reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. We cannot assure you that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverable owed to us now or in the future or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. A reinsurers insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with us could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Prior to the completion of the IPO, we ceded to UFLIC, effective as of January 1, 2004, policy obligations under our structured settlement contracts, which had reserves of $12.0 billion, and our variable annuity contracts, which had general account reserves of $2.8 billion and separate account reserves of $7.9 billion, in each case as of December 31, 2003. These contracts represent substantially all of our contracts that were in force as of December 31, 2003 for these products. In addition, effective as of January 1, 2004, we ceded to UFLIC policy 54 Table of Contents obligations under a block of long term care insurance policies that we reinsured from The Travelers Insurance Company (Travelers), which had reserves of $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2003. UFLIC has established trust accounts for our benefit to secure its obligations under the reinsurance arrangements, and General Electric Capital Corporation, an indirect subsidiary of GE, or GE Capital, has agreed to maintain UFLICs risk based capital above a specified minimum level. If UFLIC becomes insolvent notwithstanding this agreement, and the amounts in the trust accounts are insufficient to pay UFLICs obligations to us, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we use derivative instruments to hedge various business risks. We enter into a variety of derivative instruments, including options, interest rate and currency swaps with a number of counterparties. If our counterparties fail or refuse to honor their obligations under the derivative instruments, our hedges of the related risk will be ineffective. Such failure could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and international securities markets could negatively affect our profitability. Our international operations generate revenues denominated in local currencies. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, 19%, 20% and 19% of our revenues, respectively, and 35%, 32% and 29% of our net income from continuing operations, respectively, were generated by our international operations. We generally invest cash generated by our international operations in securities denominated in local currencies. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, approximately 9% and 8%, respectively, of our invested assets were held by our international operations and were invested primarily in non U.S. denominated securities. Although investing in securities denominated in local currencies limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on local operating results, we remain exposed to the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates as we translate the operating results of our foreign operations into our financial statements. We currently do not hedge this exposure, and as a result, period to period comparability of our results of operations is affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. For example, our net income for the year ended December 31, 2006 included approximately $12 million, net of tax, due to the favorable impact of changes in foreign exchange rates. In addition, because we derive a significant portion of our income from non U.S. denominated revenue, our results of operations could be adversely affected to the extent the dollar value of non U.S. denominated revenue is reduced due to a strengthening U.S. dollar. Our investments in non U.S. denominated securities are subject to fluctuations in non U.S. securities and currency markets, and those markets can be volatile. Non U.S. currency fluctuations also affect the value of any dividends paid by our non U.S. subsidiaries to their parent companies in the U.S. Our insurance businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth. Our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations. State insurance laws regulate most aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled and licensed. Our non U.S. insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled. State laws in the U.S. grant insurance regulatory authorities broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things: licensing companies and agents to transact business; calculating the value of assets to determine compliance with statutory requirements; mandating certain insurance benefits; regulating certain premium rates; reviewing and approving policy forms; 55 Table of Contents regulating unfair trade and claims practices, including through the imposition of restrictions on marketing and sales practices, distribution arrangements and payment of inducements; establishing statutory capital and reserve requirements and solvency standards; fixing maximum interest rates on insurance policy loans and minimum rates for guaranteed crediting rates on life insurance policies and annuity contracts; approving changes in control of insurance companies; restricting the payment of dividends and other transactions between affiliates; and regulating the types, amounts and valuation of investments. State insurance regulators and the NAIC regularly reexamine existing laws and regulations applicable to insurance companies and their products. Changes in these laws and regulations, or in interpretations thereof, can be made for the benefit of the consumer at the expense of the insurer and thus could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our mortgage insurance business is subject to additional laws and regulations. For a discussion of the risks associated with those laws and regulations, see Risks Relating to Our Mortgage Insurance Business Changes in regulations that affect the mortgage insurance business could affect our operations significantly and could reduce the demand for mortgage insurance. We have significant operations internationally that could be adversely affected by changes in political or economic stability or government policies where we operate. We have a presence in more than 25 countries around the world. Global economic and regulatory developments could affect our business in many ways. For example, our operations are subject to local regulations, which in many ways are similar to the state regulations outlined above. Many of our international customers and independent sales intermediaries also operate in regulated environments. Changes in the regulations that affect their operations also may affect our business relationships with them and their ability to purchase or to distribute our products. These changes could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, compliance with applicable laws and regulations is time consuming and personnel intensive, and changes in these laws and regulations may increase materially our direct and indirect compliance and other expenses of doing business, thus having an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Local economic conditions, including inflation, recession and currency fluctuations, as discussed above, also affect our international businesses. Political changes, some of which may be disruptive, can interfere with our customers and all of our activities in a particular location. Attempts to mitigate these risks can be costly and are not always successful. We also outsource certain services to international providers. For example, through arrangements with outsourcing providers in India, we have a substantial team of professionals who provide a variety of services to our insurance operations, including customer service, transaction processing, and functional support including finance, investment research, actuarial, risk and marketing. A significant change in Indias economic liberalization and deregulation policies could adversely affect business and economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular. The political or regulatory climate in the U.S., Europe or elsewhere could change so that it would not be practical or legal for us to use international operations centers, such as call centers. For example, changes in privacy regulations, or more stringent interpretation or enforcement of these regulations, could require us to curtail our use of low cost operations in India to service our businesses, which could reduce the cost benefits we currently realize from these operations. 56 Table of Contents Legal and regulatory investigations and actions are increasingly common in the insurance business and may result in financial losses and harm our reputation. We face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Our pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate. In our insurance operations, we are, have been, or may become subject to class actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, payment of contingent or other sales commissions, claims payments and procedures, product design, product disclosure, administration, additional premium charges for premiums paid on a periodic basis, denial or delay of benefits, charging excessive or impermissible fees on products, recommending unsuitable products to customers, our pricing structures and business practices in our mortgage insurance business, such as captive reinsurance arrangements with lenders and contract underwriting services, violations of RESPA or related state anti inducement laws and breaching fiduciary or other duties to customers. In our investment related operations, we are subject to litigation involving commercial disputes with counterparties. We are also subject to litigation arising out of our general business activities such as our contractual and employment relationships. Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, which may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. We are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state, federal and international regulators and other authorities. A substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer significant reputational harm, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For further discussion of current investigations and proceedings in which we are involved, see Item 3 Legal Proceedings. We cannot assure you that these investigations and proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. It is also possible that we could become subject to further investigations and have lawsuits filed or enforcement actions initiated against us. In addition, increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings could result in new legal precedents and industry wide regulations or practices that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. For example, the NAIC and certain state insurance departments have adopted or proposed additional reporting and disclosure requirements relating to finite risk reinsurance. Our computer systems may fail or their security may be compromised, which could damage our business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. Our business is highly dependent upon the effective operation of our computer systems. We rely on these systems throughout our business for a variety of functions, including processing claims and applications, providing information to customers and distributors, performing actuarial analyses and maintaining financial records. Despite the implementation of security and back up measures, our computer systems may be vulnerable to physical or electronic intrusions, computer viruses or other attacks, programming errors and similar disruptive problems. The failure of these systems for any reason could cause significant interruptions to our operations, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. We retain confidential information in our computer systems, and we rely on sophisticated commercial technologies to maintain the security of those systems. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures and penetrate our computer systems could access, view, misappropriate, alter, or delete any information in the systems, including personally identifiable customer information and proprietary business information. In addition, an increasing number of states and foreign countries require that customers be notified if a security breach results in the disclosure of personally identifiable customer information. Any compromise of the security of our computer systems that results in inappropriate disclosure of personally identifiable customer information could damage our reputation in the marketplace, deter people from purchasing our products, subject us to significant civil and criminal liability and require us to incur significant technical, legal and other expenses. 57 Table of Contents The occurrence of natural or man made disasters or a disease pandemic could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. We are exposed to various risks arising out of natural disasters, including earthquakes, hurricanes, floods and tornadoes, and man made disasters, including acts of terrorism and military actions and disease pandemics (such as could arise from the avian flu). For example, a natural or man made disaster or a disease pandemic could lead to unexpected changes in persistency rates as policyholders and contractholders who are affected by the disaster may be unable to meet their contractual obligations, such as payment of premiums on our insurance policies, deposits into our investment products, and mortgage payments on loans insured by our mortgage insurance policies. They could also significantly increase our mortality and morbidity experience above the assumptions we used in pricing our insurance and investment products. The continued threat of terrorism and ongoing military actions may cause significant volatility in global financial markets, and a natural or man made disaster or a disease pandemic could trigger an economic downturn in the areas directly or indirectly affected by the disaster. These consequences could, among other things, result in a decline in business and increased claims from those areas, as well as an adverse effect on home prices in those areas, which could result in increased loss experience in our mortgage insurance business. Disasters or a disease pandemic also could disrupt public and private infrastructure, including communications and financial services, which could disrupt our normal business operations. A natural or man made disaster or a disease pandemic also could disrupt the operations of our counterparties or result in increased prices for the products and services they provide to us. For example, a natural or man made disaster or a disease pandemic could lead to increased reinsurance prices and potentially cause us to retain more risk than we otherwise would retain if we were able to obtain reinsurance at lower prices. In addition, a disaster or a disease pandemic could adversely affect the value of the assets in our investment portfolio if it affects companies ability to pay principal or interest on their securities. See We may face losses if there are significant deviations from our assumptions regarding the future persistency of our insurance policies and annuity contracts and A deterioration in economic conditions or a decline in home price appreciation may adversely affect our loss experience in mortgage insurance. Risks Relating to Our Protection and Retirement Income and Investments Segments We may face losses if morbidity rates, mortality rates or unemployment rates differ significantly from our pricing expectations. We set prices for our insurance and some annuity products based upon expected claims and payment patterns, using assumptions for, among other things, morbidity rates, or likelihood of sickness, and mortality rates, or likelihood of death, of our policyholders and contractholders. The long term profitability of these products depends upon how our actual experience compares with our pricing assumptions. For example, if morbidity rates are higher, or mortality rates are lower, than our pricing assumptions, we could be required to make greater payments under long term care insurance policies and annuity contracts than we had projected. Conversely, if mortality rates are higher than our pricing assumptions, we could be required to make greater payments under our life and payment protection insurance policies and annuity contracts with guaranteed minimum death benefits than we had projected. The risk that our claims experience may differ significantly from our pricing assumptions is particularly significant for our long term care insurance products. Long term care insurance policies provide for long duration coverage and, therefore, our actual claims experience will emerge over many years after pricing assumptions have been established. Moreover, as a relatively new product in the market, long term care insurance does not have the extensive claims experience history of life insurance, and as a result, our ability to forecast future claim rates for long term care insurance is more limited than for life insurance. In pricing our payment protection insurance, we also use assumptions regarding unemployment levels. If unemployment levels are higher than our pricing assumptions, the claims frequency could be higher for our payment protection insurance business than we had projected. 58 Table of Contents We may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred acquisition costs and the present value of future profits, which would increase our expenses and reduce profitability. Deferred acquisition costs (DAC) represent costs which vary with and are primarily related to the sale and issuance of our insurance policies and investment contracts that are deferred and amortized over the estimated life of the related insurance policies. These costs include commissions in excess of ultimate renewal commissions, solicitation and printing costs, sales material and some support costs, such as underwriting and contract and policy issuance expenses. Under U.S. GAAP, DAC is subsequently amortized to income, over the lives of the underlying contracts, in relation to the anticipated recognition of premiums or gross profits. In addition, when we acquire a block of insurance policies or investment contracts, we assign a portion of the purchase price to the right to receive future net cash flows from existing insurance and investment contracts and policies. This intangible asset, called the present value of future profits (PVFP), represents the actuarially estimated present value of future cash flows from the acquired policies. We amortize the value of this intangible asset in a manner similar to the amortization of DAC. Our amortization of DAC and PVFP generally depends upon anticipated profits from investments, surrender and other policy and contract charges, mortality, morbidity and maintenance expense margins. Unfavorable experience with regard to expected expenses, investment returns, mortality, morbidity, withdrawals or lapses may cause us to increase the amortization of DAC or PVFP, or both, or to record a charge to increase benefit reserves. We regularly review DAC and PVFP to determine if they are recoverable from future income. If these costs are not recoverable, they are charged to expenses in the financial period in which we make this determination. For example, if we determine that we are unable to recover DAC from profits over the life of a block of insurance policies or annuity contracts, or if withdrawals or surrender charges associated with early withdrawals do not fully offset the unamortized acquisition costs related to those policies or annuities, we would be required to recognize the additional DAC amortization as a current period expense. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, we had $6.3 billion and $5.6 billion of DAC, and $0.7 billion and $0.7 billion of PVFP. Our net amortization of DAC and PVFP was $0.7 billion, $0.8 billion and $1.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We may be required to recognize impairment in the value of our goodwill, which would increase our expenses and reduce our profitability. Goodwill represents the excess of the amount we paid to acquire our subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of the acquisition. Under U.S. GAAP, we test the carrying value of goodwill for impairment at least annually at the reporting unit level, which is either an operating segment or a business one level below the operating segment. Goodwill is impaired if the fair value of the reporting unit as a whole is less than the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, plus the carrying value of goodwill, at the date of the test. For example, goodwill may become impaired if the fair value of a reporting unit as a whole were to decline by an amount greater than the decline in the value of its individual identifiable assets and liabilities. This may occur for various reasons, including changes in actual or expected income or cash flows of a reporting unit, generation of income by a reporting unit at a lower rate of return than similar businesses or declines in market prices for publicly traded businesses similar to our reporting units. If any portion of our goodwill becomes impaired, we would be required to recognize the amount of the impairment as a current period expense. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, we had $1.7 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively, of goodwill related to our Protection and Retirement Income and Investments segments. Our reputation in the long term care insurance market may be adversely affected if we were to raise premiums on our in force long term care insurance products. While we have not increased premiums on any direct in force long term care policies that we have issued, the terms of all our long term care insurance policies permit us to increase premiums during the premium paying 59 Table of Contents period. Any premium increase could have an adverse effect on our reputation, our ability to market and sell new long term care insurance products, our ability to retain existing policyholders, agent attrition, independent channel market share and morbidity trends. Medical advances, such as genetic research and diagnostic imaging, and related legislation could adversely affect the financial performance of our life insurance, long term care insurance and annuities businesses. Genetic research includes procedures focused on identifying key genes that render an individual predisposed to specific diseases, such as particular types of cancer and other diseases. Other medical advances, such as diagnostic imaging technologies, also may be used to detect the early onset of diseases such as cancer and cardiovascular disease. We believe that if individuals learn through medical advances that they are predisposed to particular conditions that may reduce life longevity or require long term care, they will be more likely to purchase our life and long term care insurance policies or not to permit existing polices to lapse. In contrast, if individuals learn that they lack the genetic predisposition to develop the conditions that reduce longevity or require long term care, they will be less likely to purchase our life and long term care insurance products but more likely to purchase certain annuity products. In addition, such individuals that are existing policyholders will be more likely to permit their policies to lapse. If we were to gain access to the same genetic or medical information as our prospective policyholders and contractholders, then we would be able to take this information into account in pricing our life and long term care insurance policies and annuity contracts. However, there are a number of legislative and regulatory actions and proposals that make, or could make, genetic and other medical information confidential and unavailable to insurance companies. Pursuant to these legislative and regulatory actions and proposals, prospective policyholders and contractholders would only disclose this information if they chose to do so voluntarily. These factors could lead us to reduce sales of products affected by these legislative and regulatory actions and proposals and could result in a deterioration of the risk profile of our portfolio, which could lead to payments to our policyholders and contractholders that are higher than we anticipated. Medical advances also could lead to new forms of preventative care. Preventative care could extend the life and improve the overall health of individuals. If this were to occur, the duration of payments under certain of our annuity products likely would increase, thereby reducing net income in that business. We may face losses if there are significant deviations from our assumptions regarding the future persistency of our insurance policies and annuity contracts. The prices and expected future profitability of our insurance and deferred annuity products are based in part upon expected patterns of premiums, expenses and benefits, using a number of assumptions, including those related to persistency, which is the probability that a policy or contract will remain in force from one period to the next. The effect of persistency on profitability varies for different products. For most of our life insurance, group life and health insurance, and deferred annuity products, actual persistency that is lower than our persistency assumptions could have an adverse impact on profitability, especially in the early years of a policy or contract primarily because we would be required to accelerate the amortization of expenses we deferred in connection with the acquisition of the policy or contract. For our universal life insurance policies, increased persistency that is the result of the sale of policies by the insured to third parties that continue to make premium payments on policies that would otherwise have lapsed, also known as life settlements, could have an adverse impact on profitability because of the higher claims rate associated with settled policies. For our long term care insurance and some other health insurance policies, actual persistency in later policy durations that is higher than our persistency assumptions could have a negative impact on profitability. If these policies remain in force longer than we assumed, then we could be required to make greater benefit payments than we had anticipated when we priced these products. This risk is particularly significant in our long term care insurance business because we do not have the experience history that we have in many of our other businesses. 60 Table of Contents As a result, our ability to predict persistency for long term care insurance is more limited than for many other products. Some of our long term care insurance policies have experienced higher persistency than we had assumed, which has resulted in adverse claims experience. Because our assumptions regarding persistency experience are inherently uncertain, reserves for future policy benefits and claims may prove to be inadequate if actual persistency experience is different from those assumptions. Although some of our products permit us to increase premiums during the life of the policy or contract, we cannot guarantee that these increases would be sufficient to maintain profitability. Moreover, many of our products do not permit us to increase premiums or limit those increases during the life of the policy or contract. Significant deviations in experience from pricing expectations regarding persistency could have an adverse effect on the profitability of our products. Regulation XXX may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations by requiring us to increase our statutory reserves for term life and universal life insurance or incur higher operating costs. The Model Regulation entitled Valuation of Life Insurance Policies, commonly known as Regulation XXX, requires insurers to establish additional statutory reserves for term life insurance policies with long term premium guarantees. In addition, Valuation of Life Insurance Policies Regulation, as clarified by Actuarial Guideline 38 (more commonly known as Regulation AXXX) requires insurers to establish additional statutory reserves for certain universal life policies with secondary guarantees. Virtually all our newly issued term and universal life insurance business is now affected by Regulation XXX and AXXX, respectively. In response to this regulation, we have increased term and universal life insurance statutory reserves and changed our premium rates for term life insurance products. We also have implemented reinsurance and capital management actions to mitigate the capital and tax impact of Regulation XXX and AXXX. However, we cannot assure you that there will not be regulatory, tax or other challenges to the actions we have taken to date. The result of those potential challenges could require us to increase statutory reserves or incur higher operating and or tax costs. Any change to or repeal of Regulation XXX or AXXX could reduce the competitive advantage of our reinsurance and capital management actions and could adversely affect our market position in the life insurance market. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to implement actions to mitigate the impact of Regulation XXX or AXXX on future sales of term and universal life insurance products. If we are unable to continue to implement those actions, we may be required to increase statutory reserves, incur higher operating costs than we currently anticipate, or reduce our sales of these products. We also may have to implement measures that may be disruptive to our business. For example, because term and universal life insurance are particularly price sensitive products, any increase in premiums charged on these products in order to compensate us for the increased statutory reserve requirements or higher costs of reinsurance may result in a significant loss of volume and adversely affect our life insurance operations. If demand for long term care insurance continues to decline, we will not be able to execute our strategy to expand our long term care business. We have devoted significant resources to developing our long term care insurance business, and our growth strategy relies partly upon continued growth of the sale of this product. In recent years, industry sales of individual long term care insurance have declined. Annualized first year premiums for individual long term care insurance achieved a historical high in 2002 at approximately $1.0 billion and decreased by 41% to $607.7 million in 2006, according to LIMRA International. We believe this decrease was due primarily to decisions by several providers to cease offering long term care insurance, to raise premiums on in force policies and or to introduce new products with higher prices. These actions resulted in decreased purchases of long term care insurance products and have caused some distributors to reduce their sales focus on these products. While our 61 Table of Contents individual long term care sales have grown 11% over the preceding year, our annualized first year premiums of long term care insurance from 2004 to 2006 were relatively flat. If the market for long term care insurance continues to decline, we may be unable to realize our growth strategy in this area and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Mortgage Insurance Segment Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and a small number of large mortgage lenders exert significant influence over the U.S. mortgage insurance market. Our mortgage insurance products protect mortgage lenders and investors from default related losses on residential first mortgage loans made primarily to home buyers with high loan to value mortgages generally, those home buyers who make down payments of less than 20% of their homes purchase price. The largest purchasers and guarantors of mortgage loans in the U.S. are Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which were created by Congressional charter to ensure that mortgage lenders have sufficient funds to continue to finance home purchases. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac purchased approximately 28% for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 and 31% for the year ended December 31, 2004 of all the mortgage loans originated in the U.S., according to statistics published by Inside Mortgage Finance. We believe the reduction in the percentage of mortgages purchased by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac has reduced the market size for flow private mortgage insurance. Fannie Maes and Freddie Macs charters generally prohibit them from purchasing any mortgage with a face amount that exceeds 80% of the homes value, unless that mortgage is insured by a qualified insurer or the mortgage seller retains at least a 10% participation in the loan or agrees to repurchase the loan in the event of default. As a result, high loan to value mortgages purchased by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac generally are insured with private mortgage insurance. These provisions in Fannie Maes and Freddie Macs charters create much of the demand for private mortgage insurance in the U.S. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are also subject to regulatory oversight by HUD and OFHEO. As of December 31, 2006, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac purchased the majority of the flow mortgage loans that we insured. As a result, a change in the charter provisions or other statutes or regulations relating to their purchase or guarantee activity could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Increasing consolidation among mortgage lenders resulted in significant customer concentration for U.S. mortgage insurers. As a result of this significant concentration, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and the largest mortgage lenders possess substantial market power, which enables them to influence our business and the mortgage insurance industry in general. Although we actively monitor and develop our relationships with Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and our largest mortgage lending customers, a deterioration in any of these relationships, or the loss of business from any of our key customers, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, if the FHLBs reduce their purchases of mortgage loans, purchase uninsured mortgage loans or use other credit enhancement products, this could have an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. A decrease in the volume of high loan to value home mortgage originations or an increase in the volume of mortgage insurance cancellations could result in a decline in our revenue. We provide mortgage insurance primarily for high loan to value mortgages. Factors that could lead to a decrease in the volume of high loan to value mortgage originations include: a change in the level of home mortgage interest rates; a decline in economic conditions generally, or in conditions in regional and local economies; the level of consumer confidence, which may be adversely affected by economic instability, war or terrorist events; declines in the price of homes; adverse population trends, including lower homeownership rates; 62 Table of Contents high rates of home price appreciation, which in times of heavy refinancing affect whether refinanced loans have loan to value ratios that require mortgage insurance; and changes in government housing policy encouraging loans to first time homebuyers. A decline in the volume of high loan to value mortgage originations would reduce the demand for mortgage insurance and, therefore, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a significant percentage of the premiums we earn each year in our U.S. mortgage insurance business are renewal premiums from insurance policies written in previous years. We estimate that approximately 85% of our U.S. gross premiums written in each of the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, were renewal premiums. As a result, the length of time insurance remains in force is an important determinant of our mortgage insurance revenues. Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and many other mortgage investors in the U.S. generally permit a homeowner to ask his loan servicer to cancel his mortgage insurance when the principal amount of the mortgage falls below 80% of the homes value. Factors that tend to reduce the length of time our mortgage insurance remains in force include: declining interest rates, which may result in the refinancing of the mortgages underlying our insurance policies with new mortgage loans that may not require mortgage insurance or that we do not insure; significant appreciation in the value of homes, which causes the size of the mortgage to decrease below 80% of the value of the home and enables the borrower to request cancellation of the mortgage insurance; and changes in mortgage insurance cancellation requirements under applicable federal law or mortgage insurance cancellation practices by mortgage lenders and investors. Our U.S. policy persistency rates increased from 46% for the year ended December 31, 2003 to 65% and 73% for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006, respectively. A decrease in persistency in the U.S. generally would reduce the amount of our insurance in force and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. These factors are less significant in our international mortgage insurance operations because we generally receive a single payment for mortgage insurance at the time a loan closes, and this premium typically is not refundable if the policy is canceled. The amount of mortgage insurance we write could decline significantly if alternatives to private mortgage insurance are used or lower coverage levels of mortgage insurance are selected. There are a variety of alternatives to private mortgage insurance that may reduce the amount of mortgage insurance we write. These alternatives include: origination of mortgages consisting of two simultaneous loans, known as simultaneous seconds, comprising a first mortgage with a loan to value ratio of 80% and a simultaneous second mortgage for the excess portion of the loan, instead of a single mortgage with a loan to value ratio of more than 80%. Over the past several years, the volume of simultaneous second loans as an alternative to loans requiring private mortgage insurance has increased substantially; using government mortgage insurance programs, including those of the FHA, the VA and CMHC; holding mortgages in the lenders own loan portfolios and self insuring; using programs, such as those offered by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, requiring lower mortgage insurance coverage levels; originating and securitizing loans in mortgage backed securities whose underlying mortgages are not insured with private mortgage insurance or which are structured so that the risk of default lies with the investor, rather than a private mortgage insurer; and using credit default swaps or similar instruments, instead of private mortgage insurance, to transfer credit risk on mortgages. 63 Table of Contents A decline in the use of private mortgage insurance in connection with high loan to value home mortgages for any reason would reduce the demand for flow mortgage insurance. We believe in recent quarters there has been a reduction in this demand in part as the result of increasing originations of mortgages that do not meet the eligibility requirements of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and mortgages that are securitized in mortgage backed securities that do not use private mortgage insurance. A prolonged decline of this nature could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our claims expenses would increase and our results of operations would suffer if the rate of defaults on mortgages covered by our mortgage insurance increases or the severity of such defaults exceeds our expectations. Our premium rates vary with the perceived risk of a claim on the insured loan, which takes into account factors such as the loan to value ratio, our long term historical loss experience, whether the mortgage provides for fixed payments or variable payments, the term of the mortgage, the borrowers credit history and the level of documentation and verification of the borrowers income and assets. Our ability to properly determine eligibility and accurate pricing for the mortgage insurance we issue is dependent upon our underwriting and other operational routines. These routines may vary across the jurisdictions in which we do business. Deficiencies in actual practice in this area could have an adverse impact on our results. We establish renewal premium rates for the life of a mortgage insurance policy upon issuance, and we cannot cancel the policy or adjust the premiums after the policy is issued. As a result, we cannot offset the impact of unanticipated claims with premium increases on policies in force, and we cannot refuse to renew mortgage insurance coverage. The premiums we agree to charge upon writing a mortgage insurance policy may not adequately compensate us for the risks and costs associated with the coverage we provide for the entire life of that policy. The long term profitability of our mortgage insurance business depends upon the accuracy of our pricing assumptions and availability and reliability of underwriting data, which may vary across jurisdictions. If defaults on mortgages increase because of an economic downturn or for reasons we failed to take into account adequately, we would be required to make greater claim payments than we planned when we priced our policies. Future claims on our mortgage insurance policies may not match the assumptions made in our pricing. An increase in the amount or frequency of claims beyond the levels contemplated by our pricing assumptions could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, our results of operations have benefited from historically low loss ratios because of significant home price appreciation and low levels of defaults. Increases from these recent historic lows could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 63% of our U.S. mortgage insurance risk in force and 61% of our international mortgage insurance risk in force had not yet reached its anticipated highest claim frequency years, which are generally between the third and seventh year of the loan. As a result, we expect our loss experience on these loans will increase as policies continue to age. If the claim frequency on the risk in force significantly exceeds the claim frequency that was assumed in setting premium rates, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be adversely affected. In our U.S. mortgage insurance business, we also provide mortgage insurance for Alt A loans, loans with an initial Interest Only payment option and other non traditional loans. Alt A loans are originated under programs in which there is a reduced level of verification or disclosure of the borrowers income or assets. Alt A loans typically have a higher default rate than fully documented loans, and we generally charge higher premiums for mortgage insurance on Alt A loans than on fully documented loans. The Interest Only payment option allows the borrower flexibility to pay interest only or pay interest and as much principal as desired, during an initial period of time. We impose credit score, occupancy type and loan to value restrictions on these loans. Although historical information is limited, we believe interest only loans may pose a higher risk of claims due to features such as deferred amortization of the loan. If defaults on Alt A or Interest Only or other non traditional loans 64 Table of Contents are higher than the assumptions we made in pricing our mortgage insurance on those loans, then we would be required to make greater claims payments than we had projected, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A deterioration in economic conditions or a decline in home price appreciation may adversely affect our loss experience in mortgage insurance. Losses in our mortgage insurance business generally result from events, such as reduction of income, unemployment, divorce, illness and inability to manage credit and interest rate levels that reduce a borrowers ability to continue to make mortgage payments. The amount of the loss we suffer, if any, depends in part on whether the home of a borrower who defaults on a mortgage can be sold for an amount that will cover unpaid principal and interest and the expenses of the sale. A deterioration in economic conditions generally increases the likelihood that borrowers will not have sufficient income to pay their mortgages and can also adversely affect housing values, which increases our risk of loss. A decline in home price appreciation, whether or not in conjunction with deteriorating economic conditions, may also increase our risk of loss. A substantial economic downturn, or decline in recent significant home price appreciation across the entire U.S. or globally could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We also may be particularly affected by economic downturns or declines in recent significant home price appreciation in states where a large portion of our business is concentrated. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 49% of our U.S. risk in force was concentrated in 10 states with 9% in Florida, 7% in Texas and 6% in New York. Similarly, our mortgage insurance operations in Canada, Australia and Europe are concentrated primarily in or around the largest cities in those countries. Continued and prolonged adverse economic conditions or declines in recent significant home price appreciation in these states or cities could result in high levels of claims and losses, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our risk in force consists of loans with high loan to value ratios, which generally result in more and larger claims than loans with lower loan to value ratios. Mortgage loans with higher loan to value ratios typically have claim incidence rates substantially higher than mortgage loans with lower loan to value ratios. In Canada, Australia, and New Zealand, the risks of having a portfolio with a significant portion of high loan to value mortgages are greater than in the U.S. and Europe because we generally agree to cover 100% of the losses associated with mortgage defaults in those markets, compared to percentages in the U.S. and Europe that are typically 12% to 35% of the loan amount. Although mortgage insurance premiums for higher loan to value ratio loans generally are higher than for loans with lower loan to value ratios, the difference in premium rates may not be sufficient to compensate us for the enhanced risks associated with mortgage loans bearing higher loan to value ratios. We cede a portion of our U.S. mortgage insurance business to mortgage reinsurance companies affiliated with our mortgage lending customers, and this reduces our profitability. We, like other mortgage insurers, offer opportunities to our mortgage lending customers that are designed to allow them to participate in the risks and rewards of the mortgage insurance business. Many of the major mortgage lenders with which we do business have established captive mortgage reinsurance subsidiaries. These reinsurance subsidiaries assume a portion of the risks associated with the lenders insured mortgage loans in exchange for a percentage of the premiums. In most cases, our reinsurance coverage is an excess of loss arrangement with a limited band of exposure for the reinsurer. This means that we are required to pay the first layer of losses arising from defaults in the covered mortgages, the reinsurer indemnifies us for the next layer of losses, and we pay any losses in excess of the reinsurers obligations. The effect of these arrangements historically has been a reduction in the profitability and return on capital of this business to us. Approximately 58% of our U.S. primary new risk written as of December 31, 2006 was subject to captive mortgage reinsurance, compared to approximately 61% as of December 31, 2005. U.S. premiums ceded to these reinsurers were 65 Table of Contents approximately $136 million, $135 million and $143 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. These premium cessions have adversely affected our profitability and could further reduce profitability if the terms of these arrangements require greater premium cessions. We compete with government owned and government sponsored entities in our mortgage insurance business, and this may put us at a competitive disadvantage on pricing and other terms and conditions. Our mortgage insurance business competes with many different government owned and government sponsored entities in the U.S., Canada and some European countries. In the U.S., these entities include principally the FHA and, to a lesser degree, the VA, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, as well as local and state housing finance agencies. In Canada, we compete with the CMHC, a Crown corporation owned by the Canadian government. In Europe, these entities include public mortgage guarantee facilities in a number of countries. Those competitors may establish pricing terms and business practices that may be influenced by motives such as advancing social housing policy or stabilizing the mortgage lending industry, which may not be consistent with maximizing return on capital or other profitability measures. In addition, those governmental entities typically do not have the same capital requirements that we and other mortgage insurance companies have and therefore may have financial flexibility in their pricing and capacity that could put us at a competitive disadvantage in some respects. In the event that a government owned or sponsored entity in one of our markets determines to reduce prices significantly or alter the terms and conditions of its mortgage insurance or other credit enhancement products in furtherance of social or other goals rather than a profit motive, we may be unable to compete in that market effectively, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We compete in Canada with the CMHC, which is owned by the Canadian government and, as a sovereign entity, provides mortgage lenders with 100% capital relief from bank regulatory requirements on loans that it insures. In contrast, lenders receive only 90% capital relief on loans we insure. CMHC also operates the Canadian Mortgage Bond Program, which provides lenders the ability to efficiently guaranty and securitize their mortgage loan portfolios. If we are unable to effectively distinguish ourselves competitively with our Canadian mortgage lender customers, we may be unable to compete effectively with the CMHC as a result of the more favorable capital relief it can provide or the other products and incentives that it offers to lenders. Changes in regulations that affect the mortgage insurance business could affect our operations significantly and could reduce the demand for mortgage insurance. In addition to the general regulatory risks that are described above under Our insurance businesses are heavily regulated, and changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth, we are also affected by various additional regulations relating particularly to our mortgage insurance operations. U.S. federal and state regulations affect the scope of our competitors operations, which has an effect on the size of the mortgage insurance market and the intensity of the competition in our mortgage insurance business. This competition includes not only other private mortgage insurers, but also U.S. federal and state governmental and quasi governmental agencies, principally the FHA, and to a lesser degree, the VA, which are governed by federal regulations. Increases in the maximum loan amount that the FHA can insure, and reductions in the mortgage insurance premiums the FHA charges, can reduce the demand for private mortgage insurance. The FHA has also streamlined its down payment formula and made FHA insurance more competitive with private mortgage insurance in areas with higher home prices. These and other legislative and regulatory changes could cause demand for private mortgage insurance to decrease. Our U.S. mortgage insurance business, as a credit enhancement provider in the residential mortgage lending industry, also is subject to compliance with various federal and state consumer protection and insurance laws, including the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Housing Act, the 66 Table of Contents Homeowners Protection Act, the Federal Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and others. Among other things, these laws prohibit payments for referrals of settlement service business, require fairness and non discrimination in granting or facilitating the granting of credit, require cancellation of insurance and refund of unearned premiums under certain circumstances, govern the circumstances under which companies may obtain and use consumer credit information, and define the manner in which companies may pursue collection activities. Changes in these laws or regulations could adversely affect the operations and profitability of our mortgage insurance business. For example, the Department of Housing and Urban Development was considering a rule that would exempt certain mortgages that provide a single price for a package of settlement services from the prohibition in RESPA against payments for referrals of settlement service business. If mortgage insurance were included among the settlement services that, when offered as a package, would be exempt from this prohibition, then mortgage lenders would have greater leverage in obtaining business concessions from mortgage insurers. In May 2002, the Office of Thrift Supervision amended its capital regulations to remove the 80% loan to value standard from the definition of qualifying mortgage loan, instead incorporating the federal Interagency Guidelines for Real Estate lending, which do not contain an explicit loan to value standard but provide that an institution should require credit enhancement for a loan with a loan to value equal to or exceeding 90%. The capital regulations assign a lower risk weight to qualifying mortgage loans than to non qualifying loans. As a result, these amended regulations no longer penalize OTS regulated institutions for retaining loans that have loan to value ratios between 80% and 90% without credit enhancements. Other regulators, including the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, also do not explicitly refer to a loan to value standard but do refer to the Interagency Guidelines. Regulations in Canada require the use of mortgage insurance for all mortgage loans extended by banks, trust companies and insurers with loan to value ratios greater than 75%. In November 2006, as a result of a periodic review of the federal financial services regulatory framework, the Canadian government introduced a bill on setting out a wide variety of changes to the regulations of financial services, including increasing the statutory requirement for mortgage insurance on all loans with loan to value ratios from 75% LTV to greater than 80% LTV. This may result in a reduction in the amount of business we write in future years in Canada. The Canadian Department of Finance has informed us that they intend to review the guarantee agreement with the Canadian government and target completion of this by the end of 2007. Although we believe the Canadian government will preserve the guarantee and maintain competition in the Canadian mortgage industry, we cannot be sure what, if any, changes will be made to the terms of the guarantee. The failure of the Canadian government to maintain the guarantee on terms similar to the current guarantee could have an adverse effect on our ability to offer mortgage insurance products in Canada and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. APRA regulates all financial institutions in Australia, including general, life and mortgage insurance companies. APRA also determines the minimum regulatory capital requirements for depository institutions. APRAs current regulations provide for reduced capital requirements for depository institutions that insure residential mortgages with loan to value ratios above 80% (in the case of standard loans) and, from October 1, 2004, with loan to value ratios above 60% (in the case of non standard type loans). APRAs regulations currently require APRA regulated lenders to determine the criteria for determining if a loan is a non standard type loan within certain parameters determined by APRA. Under proposed rules released by APRA during 2005 in connection with the Basel II framework, certain approved deposit taking institutions (ADIs) in Australia would be required to hold less capital on high loan to value mortgage loans and would also receive a capital incentive for using mortgage insurance, but at a reduced level when compared to current regulations in Australia. APRA has also proposed that ADIs would need to acquire mortgage insurance coverage levels lower than existing requirements in order to obtain these reduced capital incentives. We continue to work with APRA on this proposed rulemaking, which is expected to become 67 Table of Contents effective January 1, 2008. If the final rules retain these provisions, lenders in Australia may be able to reduce their use of mortgage insurance for high loan to value ratio mortgages, which may have an adverse affect on our Australian business. We believe the revisions to a set of regulatory rules and procedures governing global bank capital standards that were introduced by the Basel Committee of the Bank for International Settlements, known as Basel II, may encourage growth of international mortgage insurance. Basel II has been designed to reward banks that have developed effective risk management systems by allowing them to hold less capital than banks with less effective systems. Basel II was finalized and issued in June 2004; however, its adoption by individual countries internationally and in the U.S. is ongoing. Therefore, we cannot predict the benefits that ultimately will be provided to lenders, or how any such benefits may affect the opportunities for the growth of mortgage insurance. If countries implement Basel II in a manner that does not reward lenders for using mortgage insurance as a credit risk mitigant on high loan to value mortgage loans, or if lenders conclude that mortgage insurance does not provide sufficient capital incentives, then we may have to revise our product offerings to meet the new requirements and our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our U.S. mortgage insurance business could be adversely affected by legal actions under RESPA. RESPA prohibits paying lenders for the referral of settlement services, including mortgage insurance. This precludes us from providing services to mortgage lenders free of charge, charging fees for services that are lower than their reasonable or fair market value, and paying fees for services that others provide that are higher than their reasonable or fair market value. In addition, RESPA prohibits persons from giving or accepting any portion or percentage of a charge for a real estate settlement service, other than for services actually performed. A number of lawsuits, including some that were class actions, have challenged the actions of private mortgage insurers, including our company, under RESPA, alleging that the insurers have provided or received products or services at improperly set prices in return for the referral of mortgage insurance. We and several other mortgage insurers, without admitting any wrongdoing, reached a settlement in these cases. We cannot predict whether plaintiffs will institute new litigation against private mortgage insurers, including us, seeking damages or under relief under RESPA. In addition, U.S. federal and state officials are authorized to enforce RESPA and to seek civil and criminal penalties, and we cannot predict whether these proceedings might be brought against us or other mortgage insurers. Any such proceedings could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Potential liabilities in connection with our U.S. contract underwriting services could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We offer contract underwriting services to many of our mortgage lenders in the U.S., pursuant to which our employees and contractors work directly with the lender to determine whether the data relating to a borrower and a proposed loan contained in a mortgage loan application file complies with the lenders loan underwriting guidelines or the investors loan purchase requirements. In connection with that service, we also compile the application data and submit it to the automated underwriting systems of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which independently analyze the data to determine if the proposed loan complies with their investor requirements. Under the terms of our contract underwriting agreements, we agree to indemnify the lender against losses incurred in the event that we make material errors in determining whether loans processed by our contract underwriters meet specified underwriting or purchase criteria, subject to contractual limitations on liability. As a result, we assume credit and interest rate risk in connection with our contract underwriting services. Worsening economic conditions, a deterioration in the quality of our underwriting services or other factors could cause our contract underwriting liabilities to increase and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we have established reserves to provide for potential claims in connection with our contract underwriting services, we have limited historical experience that we can use to establish reserves for these potential liabilities, and these reserves may not be adequate to cover liabilities that may arise. 68 Table of Contents If the European and other mortgage insurance markets do not grow as we expect, we will not be able to execute our strategy to expand our business into these markets. We have devoted resources to marketing our mortgage insurance products in Europe and other parts of the world, and we plan to continue these efforts. Our growth strategy depends partly upon the development of favorable legislative and regulatory policies throughout Europe that support increased homeownership and provide capital relief for institutions that insure their mortgage loan portfolios with private mortgage insurance. In furtherance of these policies, we have collaborated with government agencies to develop bank regulatory capital requirements that provide incentives to lenders to implement risk transfer strategies such as mortgage insurance, as well as governmental policies that encourage homeownership as a wealth accumulation strategy for borrowers with limited resources to make large down payments. We have invested, and we will continue to invest, significant resources to advocate such a regulatory environment at the national and regional levels. However, if legislative and regulatory agencies fail to adopt these policies, then these markets for high loan to value lending and mortgage insurance may not expand as we currently anticipate, and our growth strategy in those markets may not be successful. Other Risks We have agreed to make payments to GE based on the projected amounts of certain tax savings we expect to realize as a result of the IPO. We will remain obligated to make these payments even if we do not realize the related tax savings and the payments could be accelerated in the event of certain changes in control. We entered into a tax matters agreement with GE in connection with the IPO. We refer to this agreement as the Tax Matters Agreement. Under the Tax Matters Agreement, we have an obligation to pay GE a fixed amount over approximately the next 16 years. This fixed obligation, the estimated present values of which were $380 million and $379 million as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, equals 80% (subject to a cumulative $640 million maximum amount) of the tax savings projected as a result of the IPO. Even if we fail to generate sufficient taxable income to realize the projected tax savings, we will remain obligated to pay GE, and this could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. We could also, subject to regulatory approval, be required to pay GE on an accelerated basis in the event of certain changes in control of our company. In connection with the sale of our group life and health insurance business previously mentioned, we are required to pay GE approximately $30 million pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement at or prior to the closing of the sale. This payout represents accelerated tax benefits. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by laws and our Tax Matters Agreement with GE may discourage takeover attempts and business combinations that stockholders might consider in their best interests. Our certificate of incorporation and by laws include provisions that may have anti takeover effects and may delay, deter or prevent a takeover attempt that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. For example, our certificate of incorporation and by laws: permit our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock; limit the ability of stockholders to remove directors; limit the ability of stockholders to fill vacancies on our board of directors; limit the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders and take action by written consent; and impose advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations of directors to be considered at stockholder meetings. Under our Tax Matters Agreement with GE, if any person or group of persons other than GE or its affiliates gains the power to direct the management and policies of our company, we could become obligated immediately 69 Table of Contents to pay to GE the total present value of all remaining tax benefit payments due to GE over the full term of the agreement. The estimated present value of our fixed obligation as of December 31, 2006 was $380 million. Similarly, if any person or group of persons other than us or our affiliates gains effective control of one of our subsidiaries, we could become obligated to pay to GE the total present value of all such payments due to GE allocable to that subsidiary, unless the subsidiary assumes the obligation to pay these future amounts under the Tax Matters Agreement and certain conditions are met. The acceleration of payments would be subject to the approval of certain state insurance regulators, and we are obligated to use our reasonable best efforts to seek these approvals. This feature of the agreement could adversely affect a potential merger or sale of our company. It could also limit our flexibility to dispose of one or more of our subsidiaries, with adverse implications for any business strategy dependent on such dispositions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC. Item 2. Properties We own our headquarters facility in Richmond, Virginia, which consists of approximately 461,000 square feet in four buildings, as well as several facilities in Lynchburg, Virginia with approximately 462,000 square feet. In addition, we lease approximately 743,000 square feet of office space in 66 locations throughout the U.S. We also own two buildings outside the U.S. with approximately 40,000 square feet, and we lease approximately 419,000 square feet in 72 locations outside the U.S. Most of our leases in the U.S. and other countries have lease terms of three to five years, although some leases have terms of up to 17 years. Our aggregate annual rental expense under all these leases was $29 million during the year ended December 31, 2006. We believe our properties are adequate for our business as presently conducted. 70 Table of Contents Item 3. Legal Proceedings We face a significant risk of litigation and regulatory investigations and actions in the ordinary course of operating our businesses, including the risk of class action lawsuits. Our pending legal and regulatory actions include proceedings specific to us and others generally applicable to business practices in the industries in which we operate. In our insurance operations, we are, have been, or may become subject to class actions and individual suits alleging, among other things, issues relating to sales or underwriting practices, payment of contingent or other sales commissions, bidding practices in connection with our management and administration of a third partys municipal guaranteed investment contract business, claims payments and procedures, product design, product disclosure, administration, additional premium charges for premiums paid on a periodic basis, denial or delay of benefits, charging excessive or impermissible fees on products, recommending unsuitable products to customers, our pricing structures and business practices in our mortgage insurance business, such as capital reinsurance arrangements with lenders and contract underwriting services, violations of RESPA or related state anti inducement laws, and breaching fiduciary or other duties to customers. Plaintiffs in class action and other lawsuits against us may seek very large or indeterminate amounts, including punitive and treble damages, which may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. In our investment related operations, we are subject to litigation involving commercial disputes with counterparties. We are also subject to litigation arising out of our general business activities such as our contractual and employment relationships. We are also subject to various regulatory inquiries, such as information requests, subpoenas and books and record examinations, from state, federal and international regulators and other authorities. A substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, even if we ultimately prevail in the litigation, regulatory action or investigation, we could suffer significant reputational harm, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recently, the insurance industry has become the focus of increased scrutiny by regulatory and law enforcement authorities concerning certain practices within the insurance industry. In this regard, in May 2005, we received a subpoena from the Northeast Regional Office of the SEC, requiring the production of documents related to certain loss mitigation insurance products, such as finite risk reinsurance. We responded to the SECs subpoena in June and July 2005, and will cooperate with respect to any follow up requests or inquiries. Additionally, in May and June 2005, certain of our subsidiaries received information requests from the State of Delaware Department of Insurance and the State of Connecticut Insurance Department on the same general subject, to which we responded. We will cooperate with respect to any follow up requests or inquiries. In June 2005, GE received a subpoena from the United States Attorneys Office for the Southern District of New York, also on the same general subject. In the subpoena, GE is defined as including, among other things, its subsidiaries and affiliates. We cooperated with GE in connection with GEs response to the subpoena, and will cooperate with respect to any follow up requests or inquiries. In May 2005, each of our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries received an information request from the State of New York Insurance Department with respect to captive reinsurance transactions with lender affiliated reinsurers and other types of arrangements in which lending institutions receive from our subsidiary any form of payment, compensation or other consideration in connection with issuance of a policy covering a mortgagor of the lending institution. In February 2006, we received a follow up industry wide inquiry from New York requesting supplemental information. In addition, in January 2006 as part of an industry wide review, our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiary received an administrative subpoena from the Minnesota Department of Commerce, which has jurisdiction over insurance matters, with respect to our reinsurance arrangements, including captive reinsurance transactions. We have responded to these industry wide regulatory inquiries and follow up inquiries, and will cooperate with respect to any follow up requests or inquiries. In November 2006, one of our subsidiaries received a grand jury subpoena from the United States Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, and a subpoena from the SEC, each requiring the production of documents and information related to an investigation into alleged bid rigging involving the sale of GICs to municipalities. We have not issued and do not currently issue GICs to municipalities, but from January 2004 to 71 Table of Contents December 2006, our subsidiary provided management and administrative services to a third party that does issue GICs to municipalities. We plan to cooperate fully with respect to these investigations and responding to the subpoenas. Antitrust authorities in the U.K. conducted an investigation of the store card sector of the retail financial services market in the U.K. to ascertain whether there are any characteristics that restrict or distort competition in this market. As part of the investigation, the authorities also examined various insurance products sold to store cardholders. These products include payment protection insurance, purchase protection and price protection. Our U.K. payment protection insurance business currently underwrites these products that are sold by one of the largest providers of store cards in the U.K. As part of that investigation, we responded to an information request. The provisional findings of the U.K. antitrust authorities were published in September 2005. In March 2006, the U.K. antitrust authorities published their final report confirming their provisional findings that there are features in the store card sector that have had an adverse effect on competition. The report contains remedies (aimed at mitigating these adverse effects on competition) relating to the various insurance products sold to store cardholders, including a requirement that the store card sector of the retail financial services market in the U.K. offer payment protection insurance separately from other elements of store card insurance. The report requires these remedies to be implemented by March 2007. We cannot predict the effect that this final report, including the remedies, may have on the store card sector in the U.K. and the sale of insurance products linked to store cards, the wider payment protection insurance sector in the U.K. or our payment protection business in the U.K. The U.K. antitrust authorities have also conducted a review of the payment protection insurance sector. The review was initiated in response to a complaint lodged under U.K. anti trust law by a consumer activist group (the Citizens Advice Bureau). In October 2006, the antitrust authorities published their provisional findings, which concluded that there are features of the payment protection insurance market, which may be adversely affecting competition. In February 2007, the antitrust authorities announced that a further and more thorough investigation of the payment protection insurance market is being undertaken. Further to that investigation, we have received an information request from the antitrust authorities. We are responding to this industry wide information request, and we will cooperate with the respect to any follow up requests or inquiries. Also in the U.K., the FSA has conducted an industry wide review of payment protection insurance products in 2005 and issued a report that was critical of some of the sales methods used by distributors of payment protection insurance products. Our U.K. payment protection insurance business only acts as an underwriter of payment protection insurance products. The FSA in 2006 completed a further review of payment protection insurance products. Although the FSA concluded that there have been improvements since 2005, the FSA identified a number of areas of concern, in particular relating to sales practices. During 2007, the FSA intends to examine whether additional regulation of payment protection insurance products is required. We cannot predict the effect these investigations may have on the wider payment protection insurance sector in the U.K or our payment protection business in the U.K. We cannot ensure that the current investigations and proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, it is possible that related investigations and proceedings may be commenced in the future, and we could become subject to further investigations and have lawsuits filed against us. In addition, increased regulatory scrutiny and any resulting investigations or proceedings could result in new legal precedents and industry wide regulations or practices that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operation. One of our insurance subsidiaries was named as a defendant in a lawsuit, Wilma Juanita Kern, et al. v. General Electric Capital Assurance Company, filed on February 16, 2005 in the Circuit Court for the Third Judicial Circuit in Madison County, Illinois. The plaintiffs sought to proceed on the basis of a class action, brought on behalf of Illinois purchasers of long term care insurance. Plaintiffs alleged the improper refusal to provide long term care benefits to long term care insureds who were cared for in unlicensed facilities in Illinois, 72 Table of Contents and the improper sale of policies requiring insureds to reside in licensed assisted care facilities during a time period when no licensed facilities, or too few licensed facilities were available in Illinois. Plaintiffs sought unspecified damages for breach of contract, violation of the Illinois Consumer Fraud Act and unjust enrichment. On January 10, 2007, the Court approved the settlement agreement reached by the parties and dismissed the case with prejudice. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders None. 73 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market for Common Stock Our Class A Common Stock is listed on The New York Stock Exchange under the symbol GNW. The following table sets forth the high and low intra day sales prices per share of our Class A Common Stock, as reported by The New York Stock Exchange, for the periods indicated. High Low 2006 First Quarter $ 35.37 $ 31.53 Second Quarter $ 35.22 $ 31.37 Third Quarter $ 36.27 $ 33.06 Fourth Quarter $ 36.47 $ 32.18 High Low 2005 First Quarter $ 29.80 $ 25.72 Second Quarter $ 31.00 $ 26.80 Third Quarter $ 33.50 $ 29.26 Fourth Quarter $ 35.25 $ 29.73 As of February 15, 2007, we had 133 holders of record of our Class A Common Stock. 74 Table of Contents Common Stock Performance Graph The following performance graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filings under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended, except to the extent we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing. The following graph compares the cumulative stockholder return on our Class A Common Stock with the cumulative total return on the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index and the Standard & Poors 500 Insurance Index. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on May 25, 2004 (the date on which public trading in our Class A Common Stock commenced) in our Class A Common Stock and each of the indices described, and that all dividends were reinvested. May 25, 2004 December 31, 2004 December 31, 2005 December 31, 2006 Genworth Financial $ 100.00 $ 138.83 $ 179.47 $ 179.17 S&P 500 Insurance Index $ 100.00 $ 101.52 $ 115.84 $ 133.69 S&P 500&reg; $ 100.00 $ 110.05 $ 115.46 $ 128.47 Dividends In the first and second quarters of 2006, we declared common stock dividends of $0.075 per share, or $34 million and $35 million, respectively, which were paid in the second and third quarters of 2006, respectively. During the third quarter of 2006, we raised the quarterly dividend by 20% to $0.09 per share and declared dividends on our common stock of $40 million, which was paid during the fourth quarter of 2006. In the fourth quarter, we declared common stock dividends of $0.09 per share, or $40 million, which was paid in January 2007. The declaration and payment of future dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on many factors including our receipt of dividends from our insurance and other operating subsidiaries, financial condition, net income, capital requirements of our subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors as the board of directors deems relevant. In the first and second quarter of 2005, we declared quarterly dividends of $0.065 per share of common stock of our Class A and Class B Common Stock, or $61 million in the aggregate, which were paid in the second and third quarters of 2005, respectively. In the third and fourth quarters of 2005, we declared quarterly dividends of $0.075 per share of common stock, or $71 million in the aggregate, which were paid in the fourth quarter of 2005 and first quarter of 2006, respectively. The third quarter dividend represented an increase of 15% per share from our previous quarterly dividends. 75 Table of Contents Our Series A Preferred Stock bears dividends at an annual rate of 5.25% of the liquidation value of $50 per share. We also pay quarterly contract adjustment payments with respect to our Equity Units at an annual rate of 2.16% of the stated amount of $25 per Equity Unit. We are a holding company and have no direct operations. As a result, our ability to pay dividends in the future will depend on receiving dividends from our subsidiaries. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to the laws of the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled and licensed and consequently are limited in the amount of dividends that they can pay. See Item 1 Business Regulation. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities (Dollar amounts in millions, except per share amounts) Total number ofshares purchased Average pricepaid per share Total number ofshares purchasedas part of publiclyannounced plansor programs Approximatedollar value ofshares that may yet bepurchased underthe plans orprograms(1) October 1, 2006 throughOctober 31, 2006 360,000 $ 33.56 360,000 $ 313 November 1, 2006 through November 30, 2006 9,756,875 $ 32.06 9,756,875 December 1, 2006 through December 31, 2006 $ Total 10,116,875 $ 32.11 10,116,875 $ (1) On December 21, 2005, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program, authorizing Genworth to repurchase up to $750 million of our common stock over the succeeding 18 months. Additionally, on October 26, 2006, our Board of Directors increased the size of the stock repurchase program by $250 million to $1.0 billion. On November 8, 2006, we completed our planned repurchases under this program. Additionally on December 8, 2006, our Board of Directors approved another stock repurchase program, authorizing the repurchase of up to $500 million of our common stock over the 12 month period commencing January 1, 2007. Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following table sets forth selected financial information. The selected financial information as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 and for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 has been derived from our consolidated financial statements, which have been audited by KPMG LLP and are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. You should read this information in conjunction with the information under Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our consolidated financial statements, the related notes and the accompanying independent registered public accounting firms report (which refers to changes in accounting for share based payments and pension and other postretirement plan obligations in 2006 and for certain nontraditional long duration contracts and for separate accounts in 2004), which are included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The selected financial information as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 and for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 has been derived from our consolidated financial statements, which have been audited by KPMG LLP, but are not included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The financial information in this Annual Report on Form 10 K has been derived from our financial statements, which have been prepared as if Genworth had been in existence throughout all periods. Our consolidated financial statements include, for all periods, the insurance businesses that we acquired from GE subsidiaries in connection with our corporate formation on May 24, 2004. Until the corporate formation, our financial statements also included the businesses that were owned by GEFAHI but not transferred to us in connection with our corporate formation. 76 Table of Contents Years ended December 31, (Amounts in millions, except per share amounts) 2006 2005 2004 2003(1) 2002 Consolidated Statements of Income Information Revenues: Premiums $ 6,487 $ 6,297 $ 6,559 $ 6,707 $ 6,107 Net investment income 3,837 3,536 3,648 4,051 3,979 Net investment gains (losses) (69 ) (2 ) 26 10 204 Policy fees and other income 774 673 824 915 939 Total revenues 11,029 10,504 11,057 11,683 11,229 Benefits and expenses: Benefits and operating expense 8,747 8,413 9,202 10,161 9,314 Interest expense 364 293 217 140 124 Total benefits and expenses 9,111 8,706 9,419 10,301 9,438 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 1,918 1,798 1,638 1,382 1,791 Provision for income taxes 594 577 493 413 411 Income from continuing operations $ 1,324 $ 1,221 $ 1,145 $ 969 $ 1,380 Net earnings from continuing operations per common share(2): Basic $ 2.90 $ 2.57 $ 2.34 $ 1.98 $ 2.82 Diluted $ 2.82 $ 2.52 $ 2.33 $ 1.98 $ 2.82 Shares outstanding(2): Basic 455.9 475.3 489.5 489.5 489.5 Diluted 469.4 484.6 490.5 489.5 489.5 Cash dividends declared per common share(3) $ 0.33 $ 0.28 $ 0.13 Selected Segment Information Total revenues: Protection $ 6,460 $ 6,179 $ 6,117 $ 6,193 $ 5,651 Retirement Income and Investments 2,932 2,912 3,361 3,803 3,756 Mortgage Insurance 1,511 1,214 1,090 982 946 Affinity(4) 218 566 588 Corporate and Other 126 199 271 139 288 Total $ 11,029 $ 10,504 $ 11,057 $ 11,683 $ 11,229 Income (loss) from continuing operations: Protection $ 618 $ 568 $ 530 $ 489 $ 551 Retirement Income and Investments 203 247 153 151 186 Mortgage Insurance 618 507 426 369 451 Affinity(4) (14 ) 16 (3 ) Corporate and Other (115 ) (101 ) 50 (56 ) 195 Total $ 1,324 $ 1,221 $ 1,145 $ 969 $ 1,380 77 Table of Contents December 31, (Amounts in millions) 2006 2005 2004 2003(1) 2002 Consolidated Balance Sheet Information Total investments $ 69,476 $ 66,910 $ 65,176 $ 78,693 $ 72,080 All other assets(5) 41,395 38,744 38,702 24,738 45,277 Total assets $ 110,871 $ 105,654 $ 103,878 $ 103,431 $ 117,357 Policyholder liabilities $ 72,350 $ 71,267 $ 69,262 $ 66,545 $ 63,195 Non recourse funding obligations 2,765 1,400 900 600 Short term borrowings 199 152 559 2,239 1,850 Long term borrowings 3,321 2,736 2,442 529 472 All other liabilities 18,906 16,789 17,849 17,718 35,088 Total liabilities $ 97,541 $ 92,344 $ 91,012 $ 87,631 $ 100,605 Accumulated other comprehensive income $ 1,157 $ 1,404 $ 1,608 $ 1,672 $ 835 Total stockholders equity $ 13,330 $ 13,310 $ 12,866 $ 15,800 $ 16,752 U.S. Statutory Financial Information(6) Statutory capital and surplus(7) $ 7,234 $ 6,672 $ 6,439 $ 7,021 $ 7,207 Asset valuation reserve $ 439 $ 416 $ 427 $ 413 $ 390 (1) On August 29, 2003, we sold our Japanese life insurance and domestic auto and homeowners insurance businesses for aggregate cash proceeds of approximately $2.1 billion, consisting of $1.6 billion paid to us and $0.5 billion paid to other GE affiliates, plus pre closing dividends. Refer to note 4 in our consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our consolidated financial statements, the related notes and the accompanying independent registered public accounting firms report (which refers to changes in accounting for share based payments and pension and other postretirement plan obligations in 2006 and for certain nontraditional long duration contracts and for separate accounts in 2004), which are included elsewhere in this Annual Report. The selected financial information as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 and for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 has been derived from our consolidated financial statements, which have been audited by KPMG LLP, but are not included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The financial information in this Annual Report on Form 10 K has been derived from our financial statements, which have been prepared as if Genworth had been in existence throughout all periods. Our consolidated financial statements include, for all periods, the insurance businesses that we acquired from GE subsidiaries in connection with our corporate formation on May 24, 2004. Until the corporate formation, our financial statements also included the businesses that were owned by GEFAHI but not transferred to us in connection with our corporate formation. 76 Table of Contents Years ended December 31, (Amounts in millions, except per share amounts) 2006 2005 2004 2003(1) 2002 Consolidated Statements of Income Information Revenues: Premiums $ 6,487 $ 6,297 $ 6,559 $ 6,707 $ 6,107 Net investment income 3,837 3,536 3,648 4,051 3,979 Net investment gains (losses) (69 ) (2 ) 26 10 204 Policy fees and other income 774 673 824 915 939 Total revenues 11,029 10,504 11,057 11,683 11,229 Benefits and expenses: Benefits and operating expense 8,747 8,413 9,202 10,161 9,314 Interest expense 364 293 217 140 124 Total benefits and expenses 9,111 8,706 9,419 10,301 9,438 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 1,918 1,798 1,638 1,382 1,791 Provision for income taxes 594 577 493 413 411 Income from continuing operations $ 1,324 $ 1,221 $ 1,145 $ 969 $ 1,380 Net earnings from continuing operations per common share(2): Basic $ 2.90 $ 2.57 $ 2.34 $ 1.98 $ 2.82 Diluted $ 2.82 $ 2.52 $ 2.33 $ 1.98 $ 2.82 Shares outstanding(2): Basic 455.9 475.3 489.5 489.5 489.5 Diluted 469.4 484.6 490.5 489.5 489.5 Cash dividends declared per common share(3) $ 0.33 $ 0.28 $ 0.13 Selected Segment Information Total revenues: Protection $ 6,460 $ 6,179 $ 6,117 $ 6,193 $ 5,651 Retirement Income and Investments 2,932 2,912 3,361 3,803 3,756 Mortgage Insurance 1,511 1,214 1,090 982 946 Affinity(4) 218 566 588 Corporate and Other 126 199 271 139 288 Total $ 11,029 $ 10,504 $ 11,057 $ 11,683 $ 11,229 Income (loss) from continuing operations: Protection $ 618 $ 568 $ 530 $ 489 $ 551 Retirement Income and Investments 203 247 153 151 186 Mortgage Insurance 618 507 426 369 451 Affinity(4) (14 ) 16 (3 ) Corporate and Other (115 ) (101 ) 50 (56 ) 195 Total $ 1,324 $ 1,221 $ 1,145 $ 969 $ 1,380 77 Table of Contents December 31, (Amounts in millions) 2006 2005 2004 2003(1) 2002 Consolidated Balance Sheet Information Total investments $ 69,476 $ 66,910 $ 65,176 $ 78,693 $ 72,080 All other assets(5) 41,395 38,744 38,702 24,738 45,277 Total assets $ 110,871 $ 105,654 $ 103,878 $ 103,431 $ 117,357 Policyholder liabilities $ 72,350 $ 71,267 $ 69,262 $ 66,545 $ 63,195 Non recourse funding obligations 2,765 1,400 900 600 Short term borrowings 199 152 559 2,239 1,850 Long term borrowings 3,321 2,736 2,442 529 472 All other liabilities 18,906 16,789 17,849 17,718 35,088 Total liabilities $ 97,541 $ 92,344 $ 91,012 $ 87,631 $ 100,605 Accumulated other comprehensive income $ 1,157 $ 1,404 $ 1,608 $ 1,672 $ 835 Total stockholders equity $ 13,330 $ 13,310 $ 12,866 $ 15,800 $ 16,752 U.S. Statutory Financial Information(6) Statutory capital and surplus(7) $ 7,234 $ 6,672 $ 6,439 $ 7,021 $ 7,207 Asset valuation reserve $ 439 $ 416 $ 427 $ 413 $ 390 (1) On August 29, 2003, we sold our Japanese life insurance and domestic auto and homeowners insurance businesses for aggregate cash proceeds of approximately $2.1 billion, consisting of $1.6 billion paid to us and $0.5 billion paid to other GE affiliates, plus pre closing dividends. Refer to note 4 in our consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our audited financial statements and related notes included herein. Cautionary note regarding forward looking statements This Annual Report contains certain forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements may be identified by words such as expects, intends, anticipates, plans, believes, seeks, estimates, will, or words of similar meaning and include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the outlook for our future business and financial performance. Forward looking statements are based on managements current expectations and assumptions, which are subject to inherent uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially due to global political, economic, business, competitive, market, regulatory and other factors, including the items identified above under Item 1A Risk Factors. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. Overview Our business We are a leading financial security company in the U.S., with an expanding international presence. We have three operating segments: Protection, Retirement Income and Investments, and Mortgage Insurance. Protection. In the United States, we are a leading provider of life insurance and long term care insurance, have developed linked benefit products such as long term care insurance linked with life insurance or an annuity and offer selected senior services and products including Medicare supplement insurance. We also offer group life and health insurance primarily to companies with fewer than 1,000 employees. In January 2007, we announced an agreement to sell the group life and health business and expect to close the transaction in the second quarter of 2007. Outside the U.S., we offer payment protection insurance, which helps consumers meet specified payment obligations should they become unable to pay due to accident, illness, involuntary unemployment, disability or death. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our Protection segment had segment net operating income of $614 million. Retirement Income and Investments. We offer our U.S. customers a variety of wealth accumulation, income distribution and institutional investment products. Retail products include: individual fixed and variable annuities; group variable annuities offered through retirement plans; single premium immediate annuities; variable life insurance; and a variety of managed account programs and services, financial planing advisory services and managed proprietary and third party mutual funds. Institutional products include: funding agreements FABNs, asset management products and services and GICs. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our Retirement Income and Investments segment had segment net operating income of $237 million. Mortgage Insurance. In the U.S., Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, Japan and multiple European countries, we offer mortgage insurance products that enable borrowers to buy homes with low down payments. We also provide mortgage insurance on a structured, or bulk basis, that aids in the sale of mortgages to the capital markets, and which helps lenders manage capital and risks. Additionally, we offer services, analytical tools and technology that enable lenders to operate more efficiently and more effectively manage risk. For the year ended December 31, 2006, our Mortgage Insurance segment had segment net operating income of $614 million. We also have Corporate and Other activities, which consists primarily of unallocated corporate income and expenses, the results of a small, non core business that is managed outside our operating segments, and most of our interest and other financing expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2006, Corporate and Other had net operating losses of $107 million. 80 Table of Contents Our corporate formation We were incorporated in Delaware on October 23, 2003 in preparation for our corporate formation and the IPO. In connection with the IPO, we acquired substantially all of the assets and liabilities of GEFAHI. GEFAHI is an indirect subsidiary of GE and prior to the completion of the IPO, was a holding company for a group of companies that provide life insurance, long term care insurance, group life and health insurance, annuities and other investment products and U.S. mortgage insurance. We also acquired certain other insurance businesses that were owned by other GE subsidiaries but managed by members of the Genworth management team. These businesses include international mortgage insurance, payment protection insurance based in Europe, a Bermuda reinsurer and mortgage contract underwriting. In consideration for the assets that we acquired and the liabilities that we assumed in connection with our corporate formation, we issued to GEFAHI 489.5 million shares of our Class B Common Stock, $600 million of our Equity Units, $100 million of our Series A Preferred Stock, a $2.4 billion short term note and a $550 million contingent non interest bearing note. We refinanced the $2.4 billion note with $1.9 billion of senior notes and $500 million of commercial paper shortly after the IPO, and we repaid the contingent note in December 2004. In connection with our corporate formation and the IPO, we entered into a number of arrangements with GE governing our separation from GE and a variety of transition and other matters, including our relationship with GE while GE remained a significant stockholder in our company. These arrangements include several significant reinsurance transactions with UFLIC, an indirect subsidiary of GE. As part of these transactions, effective as of January 1, 2004, we ceded to UFLIC all of our structured settlement contracts and substantially all of our variable annuity contracts, and a block of long term care insurance policies that we reinsured in 2000 from The Travelers Insurance Company. In the aggregate, these blocks of business did not meet our target return thresholds, and although we remain liable under these contracts and policies as the ceding insurer, the reinsurance transactions have the effect of transferring the financial results of the reinsured blocks to UFLIC. We continue to service the blocks of business that we reinsured, which preserves our operating scale and enables us to service and grow our new sales of these products. In addition, as part of the reinsurance transactions, UFLIC ceded to us substantially all of its in force blocks of Medicare supplement insurance. Our financial information The financial information in this Annual Report on Form 10 K has been derived from our financial statements, which have been prepared as if Genworth had been in existence throughout all periods. Our financial statements include, for all periods, the insurance businesses that we acquired from GE subsidiaries in connection with our corporate formation on May 24, 2004. Until the corporate formation, our financial statements also included the businesses that were owned by GEFAHI but not transferred to us in connection with our corporate formation. In addition to our three operating segments and our Corporate and Other activities, our financial statements also include the results of (1) the Partnership Marketing Group business, which offers life and health insurance, auto club memberships and other financial products and services directly to consumers through affinity marketing arrangements with a variety of organizations, (2) an institutional asset management business owned by GEFAHI, and (3) several other small businesses owned by GEFAHI that are not part of our core ongoing business. The Partnership Marketing Group historically included UFLIC, a subsidiary that offered life and health insurance products through affinity marketing arrangements. In connection with the IPO, GEFAHI transferred UFLIC to General Electric Capital Services, Inc., a direct wholly owned subsidiary of GE. We did not acquire the Partnership Marketing Group business, the institutional asset management business or these other small businesses from GEFAHI, and their results are presented as a separate operating segment under the caption Affinity. Our financial statements also include our Japanese life insurance and domestic auto and homeowners insurance businesses, which we sold on August 29, 2003, and which are presented in our financial statements as discontinued operations. 81 Table of Contents Revenues and expenses Our revenues consist primarily of the following: Protection. The revenues in our Protection segment consist primarily of: net premiums earned on individual life, individual and group long term care, Medicare supplement insurance, group life and health and payment protection insurance policies; net investment income and net investment gains (losses) on the separate investment portfolio held by our payment protection insurance business, and net investment income and net investment gains (losses) allocated to this segments other lines of business; and policy fees and other income, including fees for mortality and surrender charges primarily from universal life insurance policies, and other administrative charges. Retirement Income and Investments. The revenues in our Retirement Income and Investments segment consist primarily of: net premiums earned on single premium immediate annuities and structured settlements with life contingencies; net investment income and net investment gains (losses) allocated to this segment; and policy fees and other income, including surrender charges, mortality and expense charges, investment management fees and commissions. Mortgage Insurance. The revenues in our Mortgage Insurance segment consist primarily of: net premiums earned on mortgage insurance policies; net investment income and net investment gains (losses) on the segments separate investment portfolio; and policy fees and other income, including fees from contract underwriting services. Corporate and Other. The revenues in Corporate and Other consist primarily of: net premiums, policy fees and other income from small non core insurance businesses in this segment; unallocated net investment income and net investment gains (losses). In 2006, we began to allocate net investment gains (losses) from Corporate and Other to our Protection (except payment protection insurance) and Retirement Income and Investments segments using an approach based principally upon the investment portfolios established to support each of those segments products and targeted capital levels. We do not allocate net investment gains (losses) from Corporate and Other to our Mortgage Insurance segment or to our payment protection insurance business within the Protection segment because they have their own separate investment portfolios, and net investment gains (losses) from those portfolios are reflected in the Mortgage Insurance and Protection segment results, respectively. Prior to 2006, all net investment gains (losses) were recorded in Corporate and Other and were not reflected in the results of any of our other segments. Our expenses consist primarily of the following: benefits provided to policyholders and contractholders and changes in reserves; interest credited on general account balances; operating expenses, including commissions, marketing expenses, policy and contract servicing costs, overhead and other general expenses that are not capitalized (shown net of deferrals); 82 Table of Contents amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and other intangible assets; interest and other financing expenses; and income taxes. We allocate corporate expenses to each of our operating segments based on the amount of capital allocated to that segment. Business trends and conditions In recent years, our business has been, and we expect will continue to be, influenced by a number of industry wide and product specific trends and conditions. For discussion of the market and economic environment, see Item 1 Business Market Environment and Opportunities. General conditions and trends affecting our businesses Interest rate fluctuations. Fluctuations in market interest rates and the related yield curve may have a significant effect on our sales of insurance and investment products and our margins on these products. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. In our Retirement Income and Investments and Protection segments, low market interest rates may reduce the spreads between the amounts we credit fixed annuity and individual life policyholders and contractholders and the yield we earn on the investments that support these obligations. In response to the unusually low interest rates that have prevailed during the last several years, we have reduced the guaranteed minimum crediting rates on newly issued fixed annuity contracts and have reduced crediting rates on in force contracts where permitted to do so. These actions have helped mitigate the adverse impact of low interest rates on our spreads and profitability on these products. In addition, the recent inverting of the yield curve reduces the attractiveness of certain fixed annuity products relative to other short term investment alternatives. A gradual increase in longer term interest rates along with an upwardly sloping yield curve generally will have a favorable effect on the profitability of these products. However, rapidly rising interest rates also could result in reduced persistency in our spread based retail products as contractholders shift assets into higher yielding investments. In our Protection segment, the pricing and expected future profitability of our long term care insurance products are based in part on expected investment returns. Over time, term life and long term care insurance products generally produce positive cash flows as customers pay periodic premiums, which we invest as we receive them. Low interest rates may reduce our ability to achieve our targeted investment margins and may adversely affect the profitability of our long term care insurance products. The impact of interest rate fluctuations on our term life insurance products is similar, but less than its impact on long term care products. In our Mortgage Insurance segment, increasing interest rates in 2004 through 2006 contributed to a general decrease in new mortgage originations in the U.S. since 2003. The level of new mortgage originations was $2,980 billion, $3,120 billion and $2,920 billion for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. This compares to $3,945 billion of new mortgage originations for the year ended December 31, 2003. We believe the decrease in mortgage originations since 2003 was principally driven by two factors. First, increasing interest rates in 2004 through 2006 made refinancing of existing mortgages less attractive to consumers than in recent years. Second, with historically low interest rates in 2002 and 2003, many mortgages for which refinancing would otherwise have been economically attractive were already refinanced. This reduction in refinancing activity in turn contributed to an increase in persistency in our U.S. flow business, from 46% for the year ended December 31, 2003 to 65%, 65% and 73% for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Continued interest rate increases may have a favorable impact on persistency and could have an adverse impact on new mortgage originations. In addition, home price appreciation has slowed in 2006, causing policy cancellations to decline, which has positively affected our U.S. flow persistency rate. 83 Table of Contents Investment portfolio. Our current investment strategy is to optimize investment income without relying on realized investment gains. Our overall investment yield increased from 5.5% for the year ended December 31, 2004 to 5.6% for the year ended December 31, 2005 and increased to 5.8% for the year ended December 31, 2006. We seek to improve our investment yield by continuously evaluating our asset class mix, pursuing additional investment classes and accepting additional credit risk with higher returns when we believe that it is prudent to do so. Credit default risk. As a result of the economic downturn in 2000 through 2002 and some high profile corporate bankruptcies and scandals, the number of companies defaulting on their debt obligations increased dramatically in 2001 and 2002. These defaults and other declines in the value of some of our investments resulted in impairment charges. Credit defaults have decreased in recent years as the economy has improved. Charges associated with impairments of investments were $8 million, $71 million and $26 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. A weakening in the economic recovery could lead to increased credit defaults. Globalization. Historically, we have derived a majority of our net income from our operations in the U.S. However, in recent years, our international business has grown and has had an increasing impact on our financial condition and results of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, 37%, 32% and 29% of our net income from continuing operations, respectively, were generated by our international operations. These increases were largely due to growth in our international mortgage insurance business. We are exposed to the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates as we translate the operating results of our foreign operations into our financial statements. As a result, period to period comparability of our results of operations is affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. Our net income for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 included approximately $12 million, $4 million and $31 million, respectively, due to the favorable impact of changes in foreign exchange rates. Our four principal foreign currencies are the Canadian dollar, the Australian dollar, the British pound and the Euro. Ongoing operating cost reductions and efficiencies. We continually focus on efficiently managing our cost base while maintaining strong service levels for our customers. We expect to accomplish this goal in each of our operating units through a wide range of cost management disciplines, including consolidating operations, using low cost operating locations, reducing supplier costs, leveraging process improvement efforts, forming dedicated teams to identify opportunities for efficiencies and investing in new technology, particularly for web based, digital end to end processes. Developments affecting our product lines Life insurance. Results in our life insurance business are impacted by sales, mortality, persistency, investment yields, and statutory reserve requirements. Additionally, sales of our products are dependent on pricing and other competitive product features, distribution penetration, and customer service. Regulation XXX requires insurers to establish additional statutory reserves for term life insurance policies with long term premium guarantees, which increases the capital required to write these products. For term life insurance, we have implemented capital management actions that improve our new business returns and have, in part, enabled us to decrease our premium rates. Several competitors have executed similar capital management actions. Additionally, we have seen some competitors lower their term prices, which has made the market more competitive and could affect our future sales levels. In addition, Regulation AXXX requires insurers to establish additional statutory reserves for certain universal life policies with secondary guarantees. In 2006, we were the first company to issue non recourse funding obligations to fund statutory reserves required by Regulation AXXX for certain blocks of our universal life business. As previously noted, we have recently experienced heightened price competition in the term life marketplace and we have experienced a shifted focus by our distribution customers to universal life products. In 84 Table of Contents response to this, we are broadly building our universal life capabilities and maintaining a disciplined approach to term life sales. Our future sales levels and returns on new business could be impacted by the increased competition and shift in distribution focus. Long term care insurance. Results of our long term care insurance business are influenced by morbidity, persistency, investment yields, new product sales, expenses and reinsurance. Industry wide first year annualized premiums of individual long term care insurance decreased approximately 8% for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005 according to the most recently published data by LIMRA International. Our sales growth in a challenging market reflects the breadth of our distribution and progress across multiple growth initiatives with an emphasis on broadening our product offerings, although, sales growth has been slower than anticipated over the last couple of years. However, the continued low interest rate environment and the impact of lower termination rates on older issued policies, some with expiring reinsurance coverage, are causing higher benefits and other changes in policy reserves, resulting in lower net operating income. In response to these trends, we will continue to pursue multiple growth initiatives, invest in claims process improvements, maintain tight expense management, actively explore reinsurance and capital market solutions, execute investment strategies and, if appropriate, consider rate increases to improve profitability of the block. During the second quarter of 2006, we completed the acquisition of Continental Life, a provider of Medicare supplement insurance, for approximately $145 million, plus contingent consideration of up to $10 million. This acquisition enhances our presence in the senior supplemental insurance market by more than doubling our existing annualized premiums for this product and giving us access to approximately 4,200 independent agents. Payment protection insurance. Growth of our payment protection insurance business is dependent on economic conditions including consumer lending levels, client account penetration and the number of countries and markets we enter. Additionally, the types and mix of our products will vary based on regulatory and consumer acceptance of our products. Our payment protection insurance business continues to show growth from increased penetration of existing relationships, and the addition of new distribution relationships in existing and new countries. Retirement products. Retirement Income and Investments segment results are affected by investment performance, interest rate levels, slope of the interest rate yield curve, net interest spreads, equity market fluctuations, mortality and the impact of new product sales and lapses. In addition, our competitive position within many of our distribution channels, as well as our ability to retain business, depends significantly upon product features, including current and minimum crediting rates on spread based products relative to our competitors, surrender charge periods in fixed annuities as well as guaranteed features we offer in variable products. We continually evaluate our competitive position based upon each of those features, and we make adjustments as appropriate to meet our target return thresholds. The recent flat to inverted yield curve has reduced the attractiveness of certain fixed annuities relative to investment alternatives, such as certificates of deposit. These trends are having an adverse impact on both sales and retention of fixed annuities with the latter resulting in an acceleration of DAC amortization. In recent quarters, we have experienced improved spreads in fixed annuities primarily due to the runoff and crediting rate resets of lower return business. We expect these trends to continue. We continue to focus on our Income Distribution Series of variable annuity products and riders. We have witnessed a decline in defined benefit retirement plans in favor of defined contribution plans with more of the responsibility for retirement income planning falling on the individual. Additionally, U.S. savings rates are at historical lows. We believe these factors support demand for individual and group retirement income products that provide various forms of guaranteed benefits with the opportunity to realize upside market performance. Our Income Distribution Series provides the contractholder with the ability to receive a guaranteed minimum income stream that they cannot outlive, along with an opportunity to participate in market appreciation. However, 85 Table of Contents through various techniques, these products are designed to reduce some of our risks that generally accompany traditional products with guaranteed living benefits. We are targeting individuals who are focused on building a personal portable retirement plan or are moving from the accumulation to the distribution phase of their retirement planning. We offer asset management products to individual investors and support services for independent broker dealers and registered investment advisors. The industry is witnessing rapid increases of independent broker dealer representatives and registered investment advisors as registered representatives are leaving large national firms to form their own small firms. These new small firms need client and back office support services and access to technology. Further, individuals are increasingly transferring their assets to managed products from mutual funds. We expect these trends to continue and possibly accelerate in the future. As a result of these trends, we are expanding our presence in this market and have completed the acquisition of AssetMark, a leading provider of open architecture asset management solutions to independent financial advisors, with more than $9 billion in assets under management. Our asset management products consist of separately managed accounts and managed mutual fund accounts. We receive a management fee based upon the amount of assets under management. The results of our asset management business are a function of net flows and investment performance of assets under management, which are influenced by the relative performance of our products underlying investments and the overall equity market environment. Mortgage insurance. The results of our Mortgage Insurance segment are affected by employment and other economic and housing markets trends, including interest rate trends, home price appreciation, mortgage origination volume and levels of mortgage delinquencies (including seasonal effects). In addition, movements in foreign currency exchange rates affect our international mortgage insurance results. We believe the U.S. economy overall remains relatively strong based on continued gross domestic product growth and low levels of unemployment. However, we believe the U.S. housing market has slowed and home price appreciation has declined. In particular, certain areas of the Great Lakes region have experienced an economic slowdown and have seen a more pronounced weakness in their housing market as well as a decline in home prices. While our portfolio concentration in the impacted areas is limited to less than 10% of our total risk in force, these areas of weakness have contributed disproportionately to the increase in our U.S. losses and loss ratio. Continued low home price appreciation may cause further increases in our U.S. losses and loss ratio. The recent rise in interest rates and lower home price appreciation in the U.S. have contributed to rising persistency rates. We believe that sustained higher interest rates, increased persistency and our ongoing growth strategy will lead to stable to growing levels of insurance in force. Primary insurance in force in our U.S. mortgage insurance business increased from $100 billion as of December 31, 2005 to $113 billion as of December 31, 2006. This increase in primary insurance in force reflects an increase in our bulk product writings and the first year over year increase in flow insurance in force in 5 years. The demand for flow private mortgage insurance declined in the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared to the same period in 2005, according to data published by Inside Mortgage Finance. We believe this was driven principally by the origination of mortgages that did not meet the eligibility requirements of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and mortgages that were securitized in mortgage backed securities that did not use private mortgage insurance, in addition to the continued usage of simultaneous second mortgages as an alternative to private mortgage insurance. However, we believe the usage of simultaneous second mortgages began to decline during 2006 driven by a smaller spread between short term and long term interest rates, which reduced the competitive advantage of simultaneous second loans. The bulk mortgage insurance market is increasing as a percentage of the overall primary mortgage insurance market, which we believe is driven in part, by an increase in non prime mortgage backed security issuances. We have increased our participation in selected segments of the bulk market where we believe we will be able to meet our targeted risk adjusted returns and continue to evaluate additional opportunities this market presents. 86 Table of Contents Our international mortgage insurance business has continued to expand with favorable operating results. We expect that the growth of our established international mortgage insurance business and our entry into new international markets will continue to contribute an increasing portion of this segments total revenues and profits. As a result of the significant U.S. refinancing activity since 2002 and the expansion of our international business in recent years, as of December 31, 2006, approximately 63% of our U.S. risk in force and 61% of our international risk in force have not yet reached its anticipated highest claim frequency years, which are generally between the third and seventh year of the loan. We expect our loss experience on these loans will increase as these books of business continue to mature. In the second quarter of 2006, the Canadian government passed legislation expanding its authority to guarantee mortgage insurance to cover any Canadian licensed mortgage insurer without the need for further legislation, which may enable potential new competitors to enter the market. The aggregate cap for all Canadian licensed mortgage insurers guaranteed policies was also increased to CDN $200 billion, which facilitates our ongoing ability to offer mortgage insurance products under the guarantee. Arrangements with GE GE historically has provided a variety of products and services to us, and we have provided various products and services to GE. In connection with the IPO, we entered into a transition services agreement and various other agreements with GE that, together with a number of agreements that were in effect before the IPO, govern the relationship between GE and us. Many of these agreements were entered into to provide for our transition to a stand alone company following the IPO. As of December 31, 2006, we no longer utilize any significant services from GE, although we continue to be a party to the following significant financial arrangements as noted below: Tax Matters Agreement. As a consequence of our separation from GE, and our election jointly made with GE to treat that separation as an asset sale under section 338 of the Internal Revenue Code, we became entitled to additional tax deductions for post IPO periods. For further discussion of our Tax Matters Agreement, see note 14 to our consolidated financial statements under 
 
