Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations International. As of or for the years endedDecember 31, (Amounts in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Revenues: International mortgage insurance $ 1,161 $ 860 $ 611 Payment protection insurance 1,528 1,284 1,492 Total revenues $ 2,689 $ 2,144 $ 2,103 Net operating income: International mortgage insurance $ 455 $ 355 $ 269 Payment protection insurance 130 113 90 Total net operating income 585 468 359 Net investment gains (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments (5 ) 1 Total net income $ 580 $ 469 $ 359 Total segment assets $ 11,892 $ 8,518 $ 6,961 International mortgage insurance We have significant mortgage insurance operations in Canada and Australia, two of the largest markets for mortgage insurance products outside of the U.S., as well as smaller operations in New Zealand and the developing markets in Europe, Mexico and Japan. The mortgage loan markets in Canada and Australia are well developed, and mortgage insurance plays an important role in each of these markets. However, these markets vary significantly and are influenced by different cultural, economic and regulatory conditions. We believe the following factors have contributed to the growth of mortgage insurance demand in these countries: a desire by lenders to expand their business by offering low down payment mortgage loans; the recognition of the higher default risk inherent in low down payment lending and the need for specialized underwriting expertise to conduct this business prudently; government housing policies that support increased homeownership; government policies that support the use of securitization and secondary market mortgage sales, in which third party credit enhancement is often used as a source of funding and liquidity for mortgage lending; and 17 Table of Contents bank regulatory capital policies that provide incentives to lenders to transfer some or all of the credit risk on low down payment mortgages to third parties, such as mortgage insurers. We believe a number of these factors have contributed to the growth of mortgage insurance demand in markets throughout Europe, Latin America and Asia and provide opportunities for us to expand our mortgage insurance business in those markets. Based upon our experience in the mature markets, we believe a favorable regulatory framework is important to the development of high loan to value lending and the use of products such as mortgage insurance to protect against default risk or to obtain capital relief. As a result, we have advocated governmental and policymaking agencies throughout our markets to adopt legislative and regulatory policies supporting increased homeownership and the use of private mortgage insurance. We have significant expertise in mature markets, and we leverage this experience in developing markets as we continue to encourage regulatory authorities to implement incentives to use private mortgage insurance as an effective risk management strategy. We believe the revisions to a set of regulatory rules and procedures governing global bank capital standards that were introduced by the Basel Committee of the Bank for International Settlements, known as Basel II, also may encourage further growth of international mortgage insurance. Basel II has been designed to reward banks that have developed effective risk management systems by allowing them to hold less capital than banks with less effective systems. While Basel II was finalized and issued in June 2004, its adoption by individual countries internationally and in the U.S. is ongoing. Therefore, we cannot predict the benefits that ultimately will be provided to lenders, or how any such benefits may affect the opportunities for the growth of mortgage insurance. We believe a desire by lenders to offer low down payment mortgages and changes in government and bank regulatory capital policies have contributed to the growth of mortgage insurance demand in markets throughout Europe, Latin America and Asia and provide opportunities for us to expand our mortgage insurance business in those markets. Certain markets in these areas have strong demand for housing, but are underserved by the existing housing finance systems. As a result, we believe that mortgage insurance could enhance the overall scale, effectiveness and efficiency of these mortgage markets. We expect lenders in these markets will seek to expand their consumer mortgage loan portfolios, while maintaining strong risk and capital management routines. With the expected implementation of the new regulatory rules and procedures governing global bank capital standards, we believe we will be well positioned to assist lenders in these markets in meeting those goals and in complying with the anticipated complexity of the risk based capital and operating standards. Mortgage insurance in our International segment is typically single premium and provides 100% coverage. Under single premium policies, the premium is usually included as part of the aggregate loan amount and paid to us as the mortgage insurer. We record the proceeds to unearned premium reserves, invest those proceeds and recognize the premiums over time in accordance with the expected pattern of risk emergence. Canada We entered the Canadian mortgage insurance market in 1995 with our acquisition of certain assets and employees from the Mortgage Insurance Corporation of Canada, and we now operate in every province and territory. We are currently the leading private mortgage insurer in the Canadian market. The ten largest mortgage originators in Canada provide the majority of the financing for residential mortgage financing in that country. Products We offer primary flow insurance and portfolio credit enhancement insurance. Regulations in Canada require the use of mortgage insurance for all mortgage loans extended by federally incorporated banks, trust companies and insurers, where the loan to value ratio exceeds 80%. 18 Table of Contents We also provide portfolio credit enhancement insurance to lenders that have originated loans with loan to value ratios of less than or equal to 80%. These policies provide lenders with immediate capital relief from applicable bank regulatory capital requirements and facilitate the securitization of mortgages in the Canadian market. In both primary flow insurance and portfolio policies, our mortgage insurance in Canada provides insurance coverage for the entire unpaid loan balance, including interest, selling costs and expenses, following the sale of the underlying property. Government guarantee We have an agreement with the Canadian government under which it guarantees the benefits payable under a mortgage insurance policy, less 10% of the original principal amount of an insured loan, in the event that we fail to make claim payments with respect to that loan because of insolvency. We pay the Canadian government a risk premium for this guarantee and make other payments to a reserve fund in respect of the governments obligation. Because banks are not required to maintain regulatory capital on an asset backed by a sovereign guarantee, our 90% sovereign guarantee permits lenders purchasing our mortgage insurance to reduce their regulatory capital charges for credit risks on mortgages by 90%. Competition Our primary mortgage insurance competitor in Canada is the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC) which is owned by the Canadian government, although there have been and may continue to be new competitors entering the Canadian market. CMHCs mortgage insurance provides lenders with 100% capital relief from bank regulatory requirements. We compete with CMHC primarily based upon our reputation for high quality customer service, quick decision making on insurance applications, strong underwriting expertise and flexibility in product development. In addition, we compete in Canada with alternative products and financial structures, such as credit default swaps, which are designed to transfer credit default risk on mortgage loans. Australia We entered the Australian mortgage insurance market in 1997 with our acquisition of the operating assets of the Housing Loans Insurance Corporation (HLIC) from the Australian government. As part of the expansion of our Australian operations, we also entered the New Zealand mortgage insurance market in 1999 and acquired Vero Lenders Mortgage Insurance Limited in 2006. In 2007, we were the leading provider of mortgage insurance in Australia based upon flow new insurance written. The ten largest mortgage originators in Australia provide the majority of the financing for residential mortgage financing in that country. Products In Australia and New Zealand, we offer primary flow mortgage insurance, also known as lenders mortgage insurance (LMI), and portfolio credit enhancement policies. Our principal product is LMI which is similar to single premium primary flow insurance we offer in Canada with 100% coverage. Lenders usually collect the single premium from borrowers at the time the loan proceeds are advanced and remit the amount to us as the mortgage insurer. We provide LMI on a flow basis to customers including banks, building societies, credit unions and non bank mortgage originators, called mortgage managers. Banks, building societies and credit unions generally acquire LMI only for residential mortgage loans with loan to value ratios above 80%. Beginning in 2006, the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) reduced capital requirements for high loan to value residential mortgages if they have been insured by a mortgage insurance company regulated by APRA. APRAs license conditions require Australian mortgage insurance companies, including ours, to be monoline insurers, which are insurance companies that offer just one type of insurance product. 19 Table of Contents Mortgage managers fund their operations primarily through the issuance of mortgage backed securities. Because they are not regulated by APRA, they do not have the same capital incentives as banks for acquiring LMI. However, they use LMI as the principal form of credit enhancement for these securities and generally purchase insurance for every loan they originate, without regard to the loan to value ratio. We also provide portfolio credit enhancement policies to APRA regulated lenders that have originated Australian loans for securitization. Portfolio mortgage insurance serves as an important source of credit enhancement for the Australian securitization market, and our portfolio credit enhancement coverage generally is purchased for low loan to value, seasoned loans written by APRA regulated institutions. To date, a market for these portfolio credit enhancement policies has not developed in New Zealand to the same extent as in Australia. Competition The Australian and New Zealand flow mortgage insurance markets are primarily served by one other private LMI company, as well as various lender affiliated captive mortgage insurance companies. We compete primarily based upon our reputation for high quality customer service, quick decision making on insurance applications, strong underwriting expertise and flexibility in terms of product development. As in Canada, our products also compete in Australia and New Zealand with alternative products and financial structures that are designed to transfer credit default risk on mortgage loans. At least one other U.S. mortgage insurance provider has established a subsidiary in Australia that is licensed to offer LMI, and we believe others may be considering opportunities in Australia. Europe and other international We began our European operations in the U.K., which is Europes largest market for mortgage loan originations. In recent years, we expanded into eight additional countries and we continue to develop opportunities in other European countries. In 2007, we were a leading private mortgage insurance provider in Europe, based upon flow new insurance written. We also had a growing presence in the developing private mortgage insurance markets in Mexico and Japan. During 2007, certain European Union member states experienced an economic slowdown and a lower level of home price appreciation. As a result, we took various actions to reduce our new business risk profile including changes to high loan to value lending guidelines and tightened underwriting standards to slow growth in these markets. Products Our mortgage insurance products in Europe consist principally of primary flow insurance structured with single premium payments. Our primary flow insurance generally provides first loss coverage in the event of default on a portion (typically 10% to 20%) of the balance of an individual mortgage loan. We also offer portfolio credit enhancement to lenders that have originated loans for securitization. Competition Our competition in Europe includes both public and private entities, including traditional mortgage insurance companies, as well as providers of alternative credit enhancement products and public mortgage guarantee facilities. Competition from alternative credit enhancement products include personal guarantees on high loan to value loans, second mortgages and bank guarantees, captive insurance companies organized by lenders, and alternative forms of risk transfer including capital markets solutions. We believe that our global expertise, coverage flexibility and strong ratings differentiate us from competitors and alternative products. International mortgage insurance distribution We maintain a dedicated sales force that markets our mortgage insurance products internationally to lenders. As in the U.S. market, our sales force markets to financial institutions and mortgage originators, who in turn offer mortgage insurance products to borrowers. 20 Table of Contents Payment protection insurance We currently provide payment protection insurance to consumers in more than 15 countries offered principally by financial services companies at the point of sale of consumer products. This business also includes a small Mexican property and casualty insurance business. We continually look to expand our payment protection insurance business by pursuing new markets, further penetration of existing distribution relationships and new products. In Europe, we are a leading provider of payment protection insurance. Products and services Our payment protection products include payment protection from involuntary unemployment, disability, accident and death. The benefits on these policies pay the periodic payments on the consumer loan for a limited period of time, typically twelve months, though can be up to 84 months. In some cases, for certain coverages, we may make lump sum payments. Our policies include an exclusion period that is usually 60 days and a waiting period (time between claim submission and claim payment) of typically 30 days. We also provide third party administrative services and administer non risk premium with some relationships in Europe. Additionally, we have entered into structured transactions, covering Canadian and European risk. Underwriting and pricing Our payment protection insurance is currently underwritten and priced on a program basis, by type of product and by distributor, rather than an individual policyholder basis. In setting prices, we take into account the underlying obligation, the particular product features and the average customer profile of the distributor. We believe our experience in underwriting allows us to provide competitive pricing to distributors and generate targeted returns and profits for our business. Distribution We distribute our payment protection insurance products primarily through financial institutions, including major European banks that offer our insurance products in connection with underlying loans or other financial products they sell to their customers. Under these arrangements, the distributors typically take responsibility for branding and marketing the products, while we take responsibility for pricing, underwriting and claims payment. We continue to implement innovative methods for distributing our payment protection insurance products, including web based tools that provide our distributors with a cost effective means of applying our products to a broad range of underlying financial obligations. We believe these innovative methods also make it easier to establish arrangements with new distributors. Competition The payment protection insurance market has several large, highly rated international participants. We compete through our commitment to high service levels, depth of expertise in providing tailored product and service solutions and our ability to service global clients at a local level and in multiple countries, if appropriate. U.S. Mortgage Insurance Through our U.S. Mortgage Insurance segment, we currently provide private mortgage insurance. Private mortgage insurance enables borrowers to buy homes with low down payment mortgages, which are usually defined as loans with a down payment of less than 20% of the homes value. Low down payment mortgages are sometimes also referred to as high loan to value mortgages. Mortgage insurance protects lenders against loss in the event of a borrowers default. It also generally aids financial institutions in managing their capital efficiently by reducing the capital required for low down payment mortgages. If a borrower defaults on mortgage payments, private mortgage insurance reduces and may eliminate losses to the insured institution. Private mortgage insurance may also facilitate the sale of mortgage loans in the secondary mortgage market. 21 Table of Contents We have been providing mortgage insurance products and services in the U.S. since 1981 and operate in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. According to Inside Mortgage Finance, in 2007, we were the second largest provider of mortgage insurance in the U.S., based on flow new insurance written. Our principal mortgage insurance customers are originators of residential mortgage loans who typically determine which mortgage insurer or insurers they will use for the placement of mortgage insurance written on loans they originate. The U.S. private mortgage insurance industry is defined in part by the requirements and practices of Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and other large mortgage investors. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac purchase residential mortgages from mortgage lenders and investors, as part of their governmental mandate to provide liquidity in the secondary mortgage market. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac purchased approximately 44% for the year ended December 31, 2007 and approximately 28% for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005 of all the mortgage loans originated in the U.S., according to statistics published by Inside Mortgage Finance. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are government sponsored enterprises, and we refer to them as the GSEs. Fannie Maes and Freddie Macs mortgage insurance requirements include specified insurance coverage levels and minimum financial strength ratings. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac currently require maintenance of a rating by at least two out of three listed rating agencies (S&P, Fitch and Moodys) of at least AA /Aa3 (as applicable), with no rating below those levels by any of the three listed rating agencies; otherwise, additional limitations or requirements may be imposed for eligibility to insure loans purchased by the GSEs. In February 2008, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac temporarily suspended automatic imposition of the additional requirements otherwise applicable upon a ratings downgrade below the above described requirements, subject to certain specified conditions. The GSEs may purchase mortgages with unpaid principal amounts up to a specified maximum, or the conforming loan limit, which is currently $417,000 and subject to annual adjustment. The Economic Stimulus Act of 2008 temporarily permits the GSEs to purchase loans in excess of the $417,000 limit in certain high cost areas of the country. The limit in those areas is 125% of median home price for the area, but no more than $729,750. Each GSEs Congressional charter generally prohibits it from purchasing a mortgage where the loan to value ratio exceeds 80% of home value unless the portion of the unpaid principal balance of the mortgage, which is in excess of 80% of the value of the property securing the mortgage, is protected against default by lender recourse, participation or by a qualified insurer. As a result, high loan to value mortgages purchased by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac generally are insured with private mortgage insurance. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac purchased the majority of the flow loans we insured as of December 31, 2007. The following table sets forth selected financial information regarding our U.S. Mortgage Insurance segment as of or for the periods indicated. Additional selected financial information and operating performance measures regarding our U.S. Mortgage Insurance segment as of or for these periods are included under Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations U.S. Mortgage Insurance. As of or for the years endedDecember 31, (Amounts in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Total revenues $ 805 $ 658 $ 607 Net operating income $ 167 $ 259 $ 238 Net investment gains (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments 4 3 Total net income $ 171 $ 262 $ 238 Total segment assets $ 3,286 $ 3,237 $ 3,249 Products and services The majority of our U.S. mortgage insurance policies provide default loss protection on a portion (typically 10% to 40%) of the balance of an individual mortgage loan. Our primary mortgage insurance policies are 22 Table of Contents predominantly flow insurance policies, which cover individual loans at the time the loan is originated. We also enter into bulk insurance transactions with lenders and investors in selected instances, under which we insure a portfolio of loans for a negotiated price. In addition to flow and bulk primary mortgage insurance, we have written a limited amount of mortgage insurance on a pool basis. Under pool insurance, the mortgage insurer provides coverage on a group of specified loans, typically for 100% of all losses on every loan in the portfolio, subject to an agreed aggregate loss limit. Flow insurance Flow insurance is primary mortgage insurance placed on an individual loan when the loan is originated. Our primary mortgage insurance covers default risk on first mortgage loans generally secured by one to four unit residential properties and can be used to protect mortgage lenders and investors from default on any type of residential mortgage loan instrument that we have approved. Our insurance covers a specified coverage percentage of a claim amount consisting of unpaid loan principal, delinquent interest and certain expenses associated with the default and subsequent foreclosure. As the insurer, we are generally required to pay the coverage percentage of a claim amount specified in the primary policy, but we also have the option to pay the lender an amount equal to the unpaid loan principal, delinquent interest and certain expenses incurred with the default and foreclosure, and acquire title to the property. In addition, the claim amount may be reduced or eliminated if the loss on the defaulted loan is reduced as a result of the lenders disposition of the property. The lender selects the coverage percentage at the time the loan is originated, often to comply with investor requirements to reduce the loss exposure on loans purchased by the investor. In connection with flow insurance, we perform fee based contract underwriting services for mortgage lenders. The provision of underwriting services by mortgage insurers eliminates the duplicative lender and mortgage insurer underwriting activities and speeds the approval process. Under the terms of our contract underwriting agreements, we agree to indemnify the lender against losses incurred in the event we make material errors in determining whether loans processed by our contract underwriters meet specified underwriting or purchase criteria, subject to contractual limitations on liability. In the U.S., we have entered into a number of reinsurance agreements in which we share portions of our flow mortgage insurance risk written on loans originated or purchased by lenders with captive reinsurance companies, or captive reinsurers, affiliated with these lenders. In return, we cede an agreed portion of our gross premiums on insurance written to the captive reinsurers. Substantially all of our captive mortgage reinsurance arrangements are structured on an excess of loss basis. In February 2008, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac announced a change to its eligibility rules limiting captive reinsurance arrangements to those where premiums ceded do not exceed 25%. As of December 31, 2007, our total mortgage insurance risk in force reinsured to all captive reinsurers was $3.8 billion, and the total capital held in trust for our benefit by all captive reinsurers was $0.9 billion. These captive reinsurers are not rated, and their claims paying obligations to us are secured by an amount of capital held in trust as determined by the underlying treaties. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recorded a reinsurance credit of $3 million under these captive reinsurance arrangements. We expect to reach the attachment point for reinsurance credit in 2008 for additional captive reinsurance arrangements as incurred losses continue develop on our 2005 through 2007 books of business. New insurance written through the bulk channel generally is not subject to these arrangements. 23 Table of Contents The following table sets forth selected financial information regarding our captive reinsurance arrangements as of or for the periods indicated: As of or for the years endedDecember 31, 2007 2006 2005 Flow risk in force subject to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of flow risk in force 63 % 65 % 66 % Primary risk in force subject to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of total primary risk in force 60 % 63 % 65 % Gross written premiums ceded pursuant to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of total gross written premiums 22 % 23 % 24 % Primary new risk written subject to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of total primary new risk written 56 % 58 % 61 % Bulk insurance Under our primary bulk insurance, we insure a portfolio of loans in a single, bulk transaction. Generally, in our bulk insurance, the individual loans in the portfolio are insured to specified levels of coverage and there may be deductible provisions and aggregate loss limits applicable to all of the insured loans. In addition, loans that we insure in bulk transactions with loan to value ratios above 80% typically have flow mortgage insurance, written either by us or another private mortgage insurer, which helps mitigate our exposure under these transactions. We base the premium on our bulk insurance upon our evaluation of the overall risk of the insured loans included in a transaction and we negotiate the premium directly with the securitizer or other owner of the loans. Premiums for bulk transactions generally are paid monthly by lenders, investors, or a securitization vehicle in connection with a securitization transaction or the sale of a loan portfolio. Prior to 2006, the majority of our bulk insurance business was related to loans financed by lenders who participated in the mortgage programs sponsored by the Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLBs). In 2006, we increased our participation in the GSE low documentation, or Alt A, programs and began to provide bulk insurance on lender portfolios. During 2007, we continued to provide bulk insurance on GSE Alt A programs. Additionally, we provided bulk insurance on lender portfolios, a substantial portion of which was comprised of low loan to value and high Fair Isaac Company (FICO) score payment option arm loans. With the recent issuance of guidance from U.S. federal financial regulators to financial institutions on risks related to non traditional mortgages, specifically the identification of mortgage insurance as a risk mitigant, we believe there continues to be an opportunity for the mortgage insurance industry to provide bulk insurance on lender portfolios. We have participated in these opportunities selectively and may continue to participate where we can adequately assess the underlying risk and can achieve our targeted risk adjusted returns. The loans we insure in bulk transactions typically consist of prime credit quality loans with loan to value ratios of 50% to 95%. We have generally avoided the sub prime segments of the market, because we believe market pricing for mortgage insurance on sub prime bulk transactions has not been adequate and we have had concerns regarding the volatility of this segment. As of December 31, 2007, our bulk sub prime risk in force was less than 2% of our total bulk risk in force. We may consider insuring such loans in the future when we believe conditions would allow us to achieve our targeted risk adjusted returns. Our mortgage insurance coverage levels in bulk transactions typically range from 10% to 50%. Pool insurance Pool insurance generally covers the loss on a defaulted mortgage loan that either exceeds the claim payment under the primary coverage (if primary insurance is required on that loan) or the total loss (if that loan does not require primary insurance), in each case up to a stated aggregate loss limit on the pool. During 2005, we began writing pool insurance selectively for state housing finance agencies. In 2006, we wrote a limited amount of pool insurance on second lien mortgages, typically held in lender portfolios. These policies cover prime credit quality 24 Table of Contents second lien mortgages and typically include aggregate stop loss provisions. We may consider participating in the future where we can achieve our targeted risk adjusted returns. Underwriting and pricing Loan applications for all loans we insure are reviewed to evaluate each individual borrowers credit strength and history, the characteristics of the loan and the value of the underlying property. Fair Isaac Company developed the FICO credit scoring model to calculate a score based upon a borrowers credit history. We use the FICO credit score as one indicator of a borrowers credit quality. The higher the credit score, the lower the likelihood that a borrower will default on a loan. FICO credit scores range up to 850, with a score of 620 or more generally viewed as a prime loan and a score below 620 generally viewed as a sub prime loan. A minus loans generally are loans where the borrowers have FICO credit scores between 575 and 660, and where the borrower has a blemished credit history. As of December 31, 2007, on a risk in force basis, approximately 91% of our primary insurance loans had FICO credit scores of at least 620, approximately 7% had FICO credit scores between 575 and 619, and approximately 2% had FICO credit scores of 574 or less. Loan applications for flow mortgage insurance are reviewed by our employees directly as part of our traditional underwriting process or by our contract underwriters as we process mortgage loan applications requiring mortgage insurance. The majority of our mortgage lender customers underwrite loan applications for mortgage insurance under a delegated underwriting program, in which we permit approved lenders to commit us to insure loans using underwriting guidelines we have previously approved. When underwriting bulk insurance transactions, we evaluate credit scores and loan characteristics of the loans in the portfolio and examine loan files on a sample basis. Each bulk transaction is assigned an overall claim rate based on a weighted average of the expected claim rates for each individual loan that comprises the transaction. We also provide mortgage insurance for Alt A loans, which are originated under programs in which there is a reduced level of verification or disclosure of the borrowers income or assets and a higher historical and expected default rate than standard documentation loans; Interest Only loans which allow the borrower flexibility to pay interest only, or to pay interest and as much principal as desired, during an initial period of time; and Payment Option Adjustable Rate Mortgages, which typically provide four payment options that a borrower may select for the first five years of a loan. During the second half of 2007 and into 2008, we have taken various actions to reduce our new business risk profile including: underwriting guideline and pricing changes including a combination of price increases on Alt A and A Minus loans, geographic limitations and tighter underwriting guidelines on lower credit and higher loan to value risks. We believe these underwriting and pricing actions will improve our underwriting results on these and future books of business under the anticipated economic and housing market environment, and may have an impact on our volume of new insurance written. Distribution We distribute our mortgage insurance products through our dedicated sales force of more than 100 employees located throughout the U.S. This sales force primarily markets to financial institutions and mortgage originators, which in turn offer mortgage insurance products to borrowers. In addition to our field sales force, we also distribute our products through a telephone sales force serving our smaller lenders, as well as through our Action Center which provides live phone and web chat based support for all customer segments. Competition We compete primarily with U.S. and state government agencies, other private mortgage insurers, mortgage lenders and other investors, the GSEs and, potentially, the FHLBs. We also compete, indirectly, with structured transactions in the capital markets and with other financial instruments designed to mitigate credit risk. 25 Table of Contents U.S. and state government agencies. We and other private mortgage insurers compete for flow business directly with U.S. federal and state governmental and quasi governmental agencies, principally the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and, to a lesser degree, the Veterans Administration (VA). In addition to competition from the FHA and the VA, we and other private mortgage insurers face competition from state supported mortgage insurance funds in several states, including California, Illinois and New York. Private mortgage insurers. The private mortgage insurance industry is highly competitive and currently consists of seven mortgage insurers, excluding us. Our private mortgage insurance competitors include Mortgage Guaranty Insurance Corporation; PMI Mortgage Insurance Company; CMG Mortgage Insurance Company; Radian Guaranty Inc.; Republic Mortgage Insurance Company; Triad Guaranty Insurance Corporation; and United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company. Mortgage lenders and other investors. We and other mortgage insurers compete with transactions structured by mortgage lenders to avoid mortgage insurance on low down payment mortgage loans. These transactions include self insuring and simultaneous second loans, which separate a mortgage with a loan to value ratio of more than 80%, which generally would require mortgage insurance, into two loans: a first mortgage with a loan to value ratio of 80% and a simultaneous second mortgage for the excess portion of the loan. The GSEs Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and FHLBs. As the predominant purchasers of conventional mortgage loans in the U.S., Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac provide a direct link between mortgage origination and capital markets. As discussed above, most high loan to value mortgages purchased by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac are insured with private mortgage insurance issued by an insurer deemed qualified by the GSEs. Our mortgage insurance company is a qualified insurer with both GSEs. Private mortgage insurers may be subject to competition from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to the extent the GSEs are compensated for assuming default risk that would otherwise be insured by the private mortgage insurance industry. We also compete with structured transactions in the capital markets and with other financial instruments designed to mitigate the risk of mortgage defaults, such as credit default swaps and credit linked notes, with lenders who forego mortgage insurance (self insure) on loans held in their portfolios, and with mortgage lenders who maintain captive mortgage insurance and reinsurance programs. Private mortgage insurers must satisfy requirements set by the GSEs to be eligible to insure loans sold to the GSEs, and the GSEs have the ability to implement new eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers. They also have the authority to change the pricing arrangements for purchasing retained participation mortgages as compared to insured mortgages, increase or reduce required mortgage insurance coverage percentages, and alter or liberalize underwriting standards and pricing terms on low down payment mortgages they purchase. In addition to the GSEs, FHLBs purchase single family conforming mortgage loans. Although not required to do so, the FHLBs currently use mortgage insurance on substantially all mortgage loans with a loan to value ratio above 80%. Corporate and Other Our Corporate and Other activities include debt financing expenses that are incurred at our holding company level, unallocated corporate income and expenses, eliminations of inter segment transactions, the results of non core businesses that are managed outside our operating segments and our group life and health insurance business, which we sold in May 2007 and was accounted for as discontinued operations. Discontinued Operations On May 31, 2007, we completed the sale of our group life and health insurance business for gross cash proceeds of approximately $660 million. Accordingly, the business was accounted for as discontinued operations and its results of operations, financial position and cash flows were separately reported for all periods presented. The sale resulted in a gain on sale of discontinued operations of $51 million, net of taxes. 26 Table of Contents International Operations Information regarding our international operations is presented in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations U.S. Mortgage Insurance. As of or for the years endedDecember 31, (Amounts in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Total revenues $ 805 $ 658 $ 607 Net operating income $ 167 $ 259 $ 238 Net investment gains (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments 4 3 Total net income $ 171 $ 262 $ 238 Total segment assets $ 3,286 $ 3,237 $ 3,249 Products and services The majority of our U.S. mortgage insurance policies provide default loss protection on a portion (typically 10% to 40%) of the balance of an individual mortgage loan. Our primary mortgage insurance policies are 22 Table of Contents predominantly flow insurance policies, which cover individual loans at the time the loan is originated. We also enter into bulk insurance transactions with lenders and investors in selected instances, under which we insure a portfolio of loans for a negotiated price. In addition to flow and bulk primary mortgage insurance, we have written a limited amount of mortgage insurance on a pool basis. Under pool insurance, the mortgage insurer provides coverage on a group of specified loans, typically for 100% of all losses on every loan in the portfolio, subject to an agreed aggregate loss limit. Flow insurance Flow insurance is primary mortgage insurance placed on an individual loan when the loan is originated. Our primary mortgage insurance covers default risk on first mortgage loans generally secured by one to four unit residential properties and can be used to protect mortgage lenders and investors from default on any type of residential mortgage loan instrument that we have approved. Our insurance covers a specified coverage percentage of a claim amount consisting of unpaid loan principal, delinquent interest and certain expenses associated with the default and subsequent foreclosure. As the insurer, we are generally required to pay the coverage percentage of a claim amount specified in the primary policy, but we also have the option to pay the lender an amount equal to the unpaid loan principal, delinquent interest and certain expenses incurred with the default and foreclosure, and acquire title to the property. In addition, the claim amount may be reduced or eliminated if the loss on the defaulted loan is reduced as a result of the lenders disposition of the property. The lender selects the coverage percentage at the time the loan is originated, often to comply with investor requirements to reduce the loss exposure on loans purchased by the investor. In connection with flow insurance, we perform fee based contract underwriting services for mortgage lenders. The provision of underwriting services by mortgage insurers eliminates the duplicative lender and mortgage insurer underwriting activities and speeds the approval process. Under the terms of our contract underwriting agreements, we agree to indemnify the lender against losses incurred in the event we make material errors in determining whether loans processed by our contract underwriters meet specified underwriting or purchase criteria, subject to contractual limitations on liability. In the U.S., we have entered into a number of reinsurance agreements in which we share portions of our flow mortgage insurance risk written on loans originated or purchased by lenders with captive reinsurance companies, or captive reinsurers, affiliated with these lenders. In return, we cede an agreed portion of our gross premiums on insurance written to the captive reinsurers. Substantially all of our captive mortgage reinsurance arrangements are structured on an excess of loss basis. In February 2008, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac announced a change to its eligibility rules limiting captive reinsurance arrangements to those where premiums ceded do not exceed 25%. As of December 31, 2007, our total mortgage insurance risk in force reinsured to all captive reinsurers was $3.8 billion, and the total capital held in trust for our benefit by all captive reinsurers was $0.9 billion. These captive reinsurers are not rated, and their claims paying obligations to us are secured by an amount of capital held in trust as determined by the underlying treaties. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we recorded a reinsurance credit of $3 million under these captive reinsurance arrangements. We expect to reach the attachment point for reinsurance credit in 2008 for additional captive reinsurance arrangements as incurred losses continue develop on our 2005 through 2007 books of business. New insurance written through the bulk channel generally is not subject to these arrangements. 23 Table of Contents The following table sets forth selected financial information regarding our captive reinsurance arrangements as of or for the periods indicated: As of or for the years endedDecember 31, 2007 2006 2005 Flow risk in force subject to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of flow risk in force 63 % 65 % 66 % Primary risk in force subject to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of total primary risk in force 60 % 63 % 65 % Gross written premiums ceded pursuant to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of total gross written premiums 22 % 23 % 24 % Primary new risk written subject to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of total primary new risk written 56 % 58 % 61 % Bulk insurance Under our primary bulk insurance, we insure a portfolio of loans in a single, bulk transaction. Generally, in our bulk insurance, the individual loans in the portfolio are insured to specified levels of coverage and there may be deductible provisions and aggregate loss limits applicable to all of the insured loans. In addition, loans that we insure in bulk transactions with loan to value ratios above 80% typically have flow mortgage insurance, written either by us or another private mortgage insurer, which helps mitigate our exposure under these transactions. We base the premium on our bulk insurance upon our evaluation of the overall risk of the insured loans included in a transaction and we negotiate the premium directly with the securitizer or other owner of the loans. Premiums for bulk transactions generally are paid monthly by lenders, investors, or a securitization vehicle in connection with a securitization transaction or the sale of a loan portfolio. Prior to 2006, the majority of our bulk insurance business was related to loans financed by lenders who participated in the mortgage programs sponsored by the Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLBs). In 2006, we increased our participation in the GSE low documentation, or Alt A, programs and began to provide bulk insurance on lender portfolios. During 2007, we continued to provide bulk insurance on GSE Alt A programs. Additionally, we provided bulk insurance on lender portfolios, a substantial portion of which was comprised of low loan to value and high Fair Isaac Company (FICO) score payment option arm loans. With the recent issuance of guidance from U.S. federal financial regulators to financial institutions on risks related to non traditional mortgages, specifically the identification of mortgage insurance as a risk mitigant, we believe there continues to be an opportunity for the mortgage insurance industry to provide bulk insurance on lender portfolios. We have participated in these opportunities selectively and may continue to participate where we can adequately assess the underlying risk and can achieve our targeted risk adjusted returns. The loans we insure in bulk transactions typically consist of prime credit quality loans with loan to value ratios of 50% to 95%. We have generally avoided the sub prime segments of the market, because we believe market pricing for mortgage insurance on sub prime bulk transactions has not been adequate and we have had concerns regarding the volatility of this segment. As of December 31, 2007, our bulk sub prime risk in force was less than 2% of our total bulk risk in force. We may consider insuring such loans in the future when we believe conditions would allow us to achieve our targeted risk adjusted returns. Our mortgage insurance coverage levels in bulk transactions typically range from 10% to 50%. Pool insurance Pool insurance generally covers the loss on a defaulted mortgage loan that either exceeds the claim payment under the primary coverage (if primary insurance is required on that loan) or the total loss (if that loan does not require primary insurance), in each case up to a stated aggregate loss limit on the pool. During 2005, we began writing pool insurance selectively for state housing finance agencies. In 2006, we wrote a limited amount of pool insurance on second lien mortgages, typically held in lender portfolios. These policies cover prime credit quality 24 Table of Contents second lien mortgages and typically include aggregate stop loss provisions. We may consider participating in the future where we can achieve our targeted risk adjusted returns. Underwriting and pricing Loan applications for all loans we insure are reviewed to evaluate each individual borrowers credit strength and history, the characteristics of the loan and the value of the underlying property. Fair Isaac Company developed the FICO credit scoring model to calculate a score based upon a borrowers credit history. We use the FICO credit score as one indicator of a borrowers credit quality. The higher the credit score, the lower the likelihood that a borrower will default on a loan. FICO credit scores range up to 850, with a score of 620 or more generally viewed as a prime loan and a score below 620 generally viewed as a sub prime loan. A minus loans generally are loans where the borrowers have FICO credit scores between 575 and 660, and where the borrower has a blemished credit history. As of December 31, 2007, on a risk in force basis, approximately 91% of our primary insurance loans had FICO credit scores of at least 620, approximately 7% had FICO credit scores between 575 and 619, and approximately 2% had FICO credit scores of 574 or less. Loan applications for flow mortgage insurance are reviewed by our employees directly as part of our traditional underwriting process or by our contract underwriters as we process mortgage loan applications requiring mortgage insurance. The majority of our mortgage lender customers underwrite loan applications for mortgage insurance under a delegated underwriting program, in which we permit approved lenders to commit us to insure loans using underwriting guidelines we have previously approved. When underwriting bulk insurance transactions, we evaluate credit scores and loan characteristics of the loans in the portfolio and examine loan files on a sample basis. Each bulk transaction is assigned an overall claim rate based on a weighted average of the expected claim rates for each individual loan that comprises the transaction. We also provide mortgage insurance for Alt A loans, which are originated under programs in which there is a reduced level of verification or disclosure of the borrowers income or assets and a higher historical and expected default rate than standard documentation loans; Interest Only loans which allow the borrower flexibility to pay interest only, or to pay interest and as much principal as desired, during an initial period of time; and Payment Option Adjustable Rate Mortgages, which typically provide four payment options that a borrower may select for the first five years of a loan. During the second half of 2007 and into 2008, we have taken various actions to reduce our new business risk profile including: underwriting guideline and pricing changes including a combination of price increases on Alt A and A Minus loans, geographic limitations and tighter underwriting guidelines on lower credit and higher loan to value risks. We believe these underwriting and pricing actions will improve our underwriting results on these and future books of business under the anticipated economic and housing market environment, and may have an impact on our volume of new insurance written. Distribution We distribute our mortgage insurance products through our dedicated sales force of more than 100 employees located throughout the U.S. This sales force primarily markets to financial institutions and mortgage originators, which in turn offer mortgage insurance products to borrowers. In addition to our field sales force, we also distribute our products through a telephone sales force serving our smaller lenders, as well as through our Action Center which provides live phone and web chat based support for all customer segments. Competition We compete primarily with U.S. and state government agencies, other private mortgage insurers, mortgage lenders and other investors, the GSEs and, potentially, the FHLBs. We also compete, indirectly, with structured transactions in the capital markets and with other financial instruments designed to mitigate credit risk. 25 Table of Contents U.S. and state government agencies. We and other private mortgage insurers compete for flow business directly with U.S. federal and state governmental and quasi governmental agencies, principally the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and, to a lesser degree, the Veterans Administration (VA). In addition to competition from the FHA and the VA, we and other private mortgage insurers face competition from state supported mortgage insurance funds in several states, including California, Illinois and New York. Private mortgage insurers. The private mortgage insurance industry is highly competitive and currently consists of seven mortgage insurers, excluding us. Our private mortgage insurance competitors include Mortgage Guaranty Insurance Corporation; PMI Mortgage Insurance Company; CMG Mortgage Insurance Company; Radian Guaranty Inc.; Republic Mortgage Insurance Company; Triad Guaranty Insurance Corporation; and United Guaranty Residential Insurance Company. Mortgage lenders and other investors. We and other mortgage insurers compete with transactions structured by mortgage lenders to avoid mortgage insurance on low down payment mortgage loans. These transactions include self insuring and simultaneous second loans, which separate a mortgage with a loan to value ratio of more than 80%, which generally would require mortgage insurance, into two loans: a first mortgage with a loan to value ratio of 80% and a simultaneous second mortgage for the excess portion of the loan. The GSEs Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and FHLBs. As the predominant purchasers of conventional mortgage loans in the U.S., Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac provide a direct link between mortgage origination and capital markets. As discussed above, most high loan to value mortgages purchased by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac are insured with private mortgage insurance issued by an insurer deemed qualified by the GSEs. Our mortgage insurance company is a qualified insurer with both GSEs. Private mortgage insurers may be subject to competition from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to the extent the GSEs are compensated for assuming default risk that would otherwise be insured by the private mortgage insurance industry. We also compete with structured transactions in the capital markets and with other financial instruments designed to mitigate the risk of mortgage defaults, such as credit default swaps and credit linked notes, with lenders who forego mortgage insurance (self insure) on loans held in their portfolios, and with mortgage lenders who maintain captive mortgage insurance and reinsurance programs. Private mortgage insurers must satisfy requirements set by the GSEs to be eligible to insure loans sold to the GSEs, and the GSEs have the ability to implement new eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers. They also have the authority to change the pricing arrangements for purchasing retained participation mortgages as compared to insured mortgages, increase or reduce required mortgage insurance coverage percentages, and alter or liberalize underwriting standards and pricing terms on low down payment mortgages they purchase. In addition to the GSEs, FHLBs purchase single family conforming mortgage loans. Although not required to do so, the FHLBs currently use mortgage insurance on substantially all mortgage loans with a loan to value ratio above 80%. Corporate and Other Our Corporate and Other activities include debt financing expenses that are incurred at our holding company level, unallocated corporate income and expenses, eliminations of inter segment transactions, the results of non core businesses that are managed outside our operating segments and our group life and health insurance business, which we sold in May 2007 and was accounted for as discontinued operations. Discontinued Operations On May 31, 2007, we completed the sale of our group life and health insurance business for gross cash proceeds of approximately $660 million. Accordingly, the business was accounted for as discontinued operations and its results of operations, financial position and cash flows were separately reported for all periods presented. The sale resulted in a gain on sale of discontinued operations of $51 million, net of taxes. 26 Table of Contents International Operations Information regarding our international operations is presented in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Investment and Derivative Instruments. 38 Table of Contents Regulation Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and supervision. General Our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations. State insurance laws and regulations (Insurance Laws) regulate most aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and our U.S. insurers are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled and licensed. Our non U.S. insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled. Our insurance products, and thus our businesses, also are affected by U.S. federal, state and local tax laws, and the tax laws of non U.S. jurisdictions. Insurance products that constitute securities, such as variable annuities and variable life insurance, also are subject to U.S. federal and state and non U.S. securities laws and regulations. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), formerly the NASD, Inc., state securities authorities and non U.S. authorities regulate and supervise these products. Our securities operations are subject to U.S. federal and state and non U.S. securities and related laws. The SEC, state securities authorities, FINRA and similar non U.S. authorities are the principal regulators of these operations. The primary purpose of the Insurance Laws affecting our insurance and securities businesses is to protect our customers and not our stockholders. These Insurance Laws are regularly re examined and may become more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. In addition, insurance and securities regulatory authorities (including state law enforcement agencies and attorneys general or their non U.S. equivalents) increasingly make inquiries regarding compliance with insurance, securities and other laws and regulations, and we cooperate with such inquiries and take corrective action when warranted. Many of our customers and independent sales intermediaries also operate in regulated environments. Changes in the regulations that affect their operations may affect our business relationships with them and their decision to purchase or distribute our subsidiaries products. U.S. Insurance Regulation Our U.S. insurers are licensed and regulated in all jurisdictions in which they conduct insurance business. The extent of this regulation varies, but Insurance Laws generally govern the financial condition of insurers, including standards of solvency, types and concentrations of permissible investments, establishment and maintenance of reserves, credit for reinsurance and requirements of capital adequacy, and the business conduct of insurers, including marketing and sales practices and claims handling. In addition, Insurance Laws usually require the licensing of insurers and agents, and the approval of policy forms, related materials and the rates for certain lines of insurance. The Insurance Laws applicable to us or our U.S. insurers are described below. Our U.S. mortgage insurers are also subject to additional insurance laws and regulations applicable specifically to mortgage insurers discussed below under Mortgage Insurance. Insurance holding company regulation All U.S. jurisdictions in which our U.S. insurers conduct business have enacted legislation requiring each U.S. insurer (except captive insurers) in a holding company system to register with the insurance regulatory 39 Table of Contents authority of its domiciliary jurisdiction and furnish that regulatory authority with various information concerning the operations of, and the interrelationships and transactions among, companies within its holding company system that may materially affect the operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the system. These Insurance Laws regulate transactions between insurers and their affiliates, sometimes mandating prior regulatory approval. Generally, these Insurance Laws require that all transactions between an insurer and an affiliate be fair and reasonable, and that the insurers statutory surplus following such transaction be reasonable in relation to its outstanding liabilities and adequate to its financial needs. As a holding company with no significant business operations of our own, we depend on dividends or other distributions from our subsidiaries as the principal source of cash to meet our obligations, including the payment of interest on, and repayment of principal of, any debt obligations. Our U.S. insurers payment of dividends or other distributions is regulated by the Insurance Laws of their respective domiciliary states, and insurers may not pay an extraordinary dividend or distribution, or pay a dividend except out of earned surplus, without prior regulatory approval. In general, an extraordinary dividend or distribution is defined as a dividend or distribution that, together with other dividends and distributions made within the preceding 12 months, exceeds the greater (or, in some jurisdictions, the lesser) of: 10% of the insurers statutory surplus as of the immediately prior year end; or the statutory net gain from the insurers operations (if a life insurer) or the statutory net income (if not a life insurer) during the prior calendar year. In addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of ordinary dividends or other payments by our insurers (such as a payment under a tax sharing agreement or for employee or other services) if they determine that such payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. The Insurance Laws of our U.S. insurers domiciliary jurisdictions require that a person obtain the approval of the insurance commissioner of the insurers domiciliary jurisdiction prior to acquiring control of such insurer. Control of an insurer is generally presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing, 10% or more of the voting securities of the insurer or its ultimate parent entity. In considering an application to acquire control of an insurer, the insurance commissioner generally considers factors such as the experience, competence and financial strength of the applicant, the integrity of the applicants board of directors and executive officers, the acquirers plans for the management and operation of the insurer, and any anti competitive results that may arise from the acquisition. Some states require a person seeking to acquire control of an insurer licensed but not domiciled in that state to make a filing prior to completing an acquisition if the acquirer and its affiliates and the target insurer and its affiliates have specified market shares in the same lines of insurance in those states. These provisions may not require acquisition approval but can lead to imposition of conditions on an acquisition that could delay or prevent its consummation. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control involving us, including through transactions, and in particular unsolicited transactions, that some or all of our stockholders might consider to be desirable. Periodic reporting Our U.S. insurers must file reports, including detailed annual financial statements, with insurance regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction in which they do business, and their operations and accounts are subject to periodic examination by such authorities. Policy forms Our U.S. insurers policy forms are subject to regulation in every U.S. jurisdiction in which they transact insurance business. In most U.S. jurisdictions, policy forms must be filed prior to their use, and in some U.S. jurisdictions, forms must be approved prior to use. 40 Table of Contents Market conduct regulation The Insurance Laws of U.S. jurisdictions govern the marketplace activities of insurers, affecting the form and content of disclosure to consumers, product illustrations, advertising, product replacement, sales and underwriting practices, and complaint and claims handling, and these provisions are generally enforced through periodic market conduct examinations. Statutory examinations Insurance departments in U.S. jurisdictions conduct periodic detailed examinations of the books, records, accounts and business practices of domestic insurers. These examinations generally are conducted in cooperation with the insurance departments of two or three other states or jurisdictions, representing each of the NAIC zones, under guidelines promulgated by the NAIC. In the three year period ended December 31, 2007, we have not received any material adverse findings resulting from any insurance department examinations of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries. Guaranty associations and similar arrangements Most jurisdictions in which our U.S. insurers are licensed require those insurers to participate in guaranty associations, which pay contractual benefits owed under the policies of impaired or insolvent insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on each member insurer in a jurisdiction on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by such insurer in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. Some jurisdictions permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. Aggregate assessments levied against our U.S. insurers were not material to our consolidated financial statements. Policy and contract reserve sufficiency analysis The Insurance Laws of their domiciliary jurisdictions require our U.S. life insurers to conduct annual analyses of the sufficiency of their life and health insurance and annuity reserves. Other jurisdictions where insurers are licensed may have certain reserve requirements that differ from those of their domiciliary jurisdictions. In each case, a qualified actuary must submit an opinion stating that the aggregate statutory reserves, when considered in light of the assets held with respect to such reserves, make good and sufficient provision for the insurers associated contractual obligations and related expenses. If such an opinion cannot be provided, the insurer must establish additional reserves by transferring funds from surplus. Our U.S. life insurers submit these opinions annually to applicable insurance regulatory authorities. Different reserve requirements exist for our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries. See Reserves Mortgage Insurance. Surplus and capital requirements Insurance regulators have the discretionary authority, in connection with the ongoing licensing of our U.S. insurers, to limit or restrict insurers from issuing new policies, or policies having a dollar value over certain thresholds, if, in the regulators judgment, the insurer is not maintaining a sufficient amount of surplus or is in hazardous financial condition. We do not believe that the current or anticipated levels of statutory surplus of our U.S. insurers present a material risk that any regulator would limit the amount of new policies that our U.S. insurers may issue. Risk based capital The NAIC has established risk based capital standards for U.S. life insurers, as well as a model act, intended to be adopted by the states. The model act requires life insurers submit annually a report to state regulators 41 Table of Contents regarding their risk based capital based upon four categories of risk: asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate risk and business risk. The capital requirement for each is determined by applying factors which vary based upon the degree of risk to various asset, premium and reserve items. The formula is an early warning tool to identify possibly weakly capitalized companies for purposes of initiating further regulatory action. If an insurers risk based capital falls below specified levels, it would be subject to different degrees of regulatory action depending upon the level, ranging from requiring the insurer to propose actions to correct the capital deficiency to placing the insurer under regulatory control. As of December 31, 2007, the risk based capital of each of our U.S. life insurance subsidiaries exceeded the level of risk based capital that would require any of them to take or become subject to any corrective action. Statutory accounting principles U.S. insurance regulators developed statutory accounting principles (SAP) as a basis of accounting used to monitor and regulate the solvency of insurers. Since insurance regulators are primarily concerned with assuring an insurers ability to pay its current and future obligations to policyholders, statutory accounting conservatively values the assets and liabilities of insurers, generally in accordance with standards specified by the insurers domiciliary jurisdiction. Uniform statutory accounting practices are established by the NAIC and generally adopted by regulators in the various U.S. jurisdictions. Due to differences in methodology between SAP and U.S. GAAP, the values for assets, liabilities and equity reflected in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP are materially different from those reflected in financial statements prepared under SAP. Regulation of investments Each of our U.S. insurers is subject to Insurance Laws that require diversification of its investment portfolio and limit the proportion of investments in certain asset categories, such as non investment grade fixed maturity securities, equity real estate, other equity investments and derivatives. Assets invested contrary to such regulatory limitations must be treated as non admitted assets for purposes of measuring surplus, and, in some instances, would require divestiture of such non complying investments. We believe the investments made by our U.S. insurers comply with these Insurance Laws. Federal regulation Most of our variable annuity, and all of our variable life insurance products, as well as our FABNs issued as part of our registered notes program are securities within the meaning of federal and state securities laws, are registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and subject to regulation by the SEC. These products may also be regulated by FINRA and state securities authorities. Federal and state securities regulation similar to that discussed below under Securities Regulation affect investment advice and sales and related activities with respect to these products. In addition, although the federal government does not comprehensively regulate the business of insurance, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including taxation, financial services regulation and pension and welfare benefits regulation, can also significantly affect the insurance industry. Federal initiatives Although the federal government generally does not directly regulate the insurance business, federal initiatives often, and increasingly, have an impact on the business in a variety of ways. From time to time, federal measures are proposed which may significantly affect the insurance business, including limitations on antitrust immunity, tax incentives for lifetime annuity payouts, simplification bills affecting tax advantaged or tax exempt savings and retirement vehicles, and proposals to modify or make permanent the estate tax repeal enacted in 42 Table of Contents 2001. In addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of insurance have been proposed in recent years. We cannot predict whether any such proposals will be adopted, or what impact, if any, such proposals or, if adopted, such laws may have on our business, financial condition or results of operation. Changes in tax laws Changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers. For example, the gradual repeal of the federal estate tax, begun in 2001, which is continuing to be phased in through 2010, has resulted in reduced sales, and could continue to adversely affect sales and surrenders, of some of our estate planning products, including survivorship/second to die life insurance policies. The Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003, which lowered the federal income tax rate on capital gains and certain ordinary dividends, may provide an incentive for certain of our customers and potential customers to shift assets into mutual funds and away from our products, including annuities designed to defer taxes payable on investment returns. On the other hand, individual income tax rates are scheduled to revert to previous levels in tax years beginning after 2010, possibly positively influencing investors to buy our products, and the 2010 expiration of favorable income tax rates for dividend income could increase interest in our products. U.K. Insurance Regulation General Insurance and reinsurance businesses in the U.K. are subject to close regulation by the Financial Services Authority (FSA), which has authorized certain of our U.K. subsidiaries to effect and carry out contracts of insurance in the U.K. Insurers authorized in the U.K. are generally able to operate throughout the European Union, subject to satisfying certain FSA requirements and, in some cases, additional local regulatory provisions. Certain of our U.K. subsidiaries operate in other European Union member states through establishment of branch offices. Supervision The FSA has adopted a risk based approach to the supervision of insurers whereby it periodically performs a formal risk assessment of insurance companies or groups carrying on business in the U.K. After each risk assessment, the FSA will inform the insurer of its views on the insurers risk profile, including details of remedial action the FSA requires and the likely consequences of not taking such actions. The FSA also supervises the management of insurance companies through the approved persons regime, which subjects any person appointed to perform certain specified controlled functions for a regulated entity to FSA approval. In addition, in January 2005, the FSA began to supervise the sale of general insurance, including payment protection insurance and mortgage insurance. Under FSA rules, persons involved in the sale of general insurance (including insurers and distributors) are prohibited from offering or accepting any inducement in connection with the sale of general insurance that is likely to conflict materially with their duties to insureds. Although the rules do not generally require disclosure of broker compensation, the insurer or distributor must disclose broker compensation at the insureds request. Solvency requirements Under FSA rules, insurers must maintain a minimum amount of capital resources for solvency purposes at all times, the calculation of which depends on the type, amount and claims history of the insurer. Failure to maintain the required minimum amount of capital resources is one of the grounds on which the FSA may exercise its wide powers of intervention. In addition, an insurer that is part of a group is required to perform and submit to the FSA a capital resources calculation return in respect of the following: The solvency capital resources available to the U.K. insurers European group, which is defined by reference to the U.K. insurers ultimate parent company domiciled in the European Economic Area. 43 Table of Contents Prior to December 31, 2006, this requirement was only a reporting requirement, but now the FSA is required to take action where the European groups solvency capital requirements exceed that groups available capital resources. The solvency capital resources available to the U.K. insurers worldwide group, which is defined by reference to the U.K. insurers ultimate parent company. This requirement is only a reporting requirement. Restrictions on dividend payments English company law prohibits U.K. insurers from declaring a dividend to their stockholders unless they have profits available for distribution, the determination of which is based on the insurers audited accumulated realized profits, less its accumulated realized losses. Change of control The acquisition of control of any U.K. insurer requires prior FSA approval. For these purposes, a party that controls a U.K. insurer includes any company or individual that (together with its or his associates) directly or indirectly acquires 10% or more of the shares in such insurer or its parent company, or (amongst others) is entitled to exercise or control the exercise of 10% or more of the voting power of such insurer or its parent company or is able to exercise significant influence over the management of the authorized insurance company or its parent company by virtue of its shareholding or voting power. The requirement for prior FSA approval also exists where an existing approved controller increases its control through certain thresholds (20%, 33% and 50%). To approve an application for approval, the FSA must be satisfied that both the acquirer is a fit and proper person to have such control and that the interests of consumers would not be threatened by such acquisition of control. Failure to make the relevant prior application could result in action being taken against our U.K. subsidiaries by the FSA. Intervention and enforcement The FSA has extensive powers to intervene in the affairs of an insurer or authorized person and has the power, among other things, to enforce, and take disciplinary measures in respect of, breaches of its rules, which includes the variation or withdraw of any authorizations. Mortgage Insurance State regulation General Mortgage insurers generally are limited by Insurance Laws to writing mortgage insurance business exclusively, prohibiting our mortgage insurers from directly writing other types of insurance. Mortgage insurers are not subject to the NAICs risk based capital requirements but are subject to other capital requirements placed directly on mortgage insurers. Generally, mortgage insurers are required by certain states and other regulators to maintain a risk in force to capital ratio not to exceed 25:1. As of December 31, 2007, none of our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries had a risk in force to capital ratio in excess of 25:1. Reserves Insurance Laws require our U.S. mortgage insurer to establish a special statutory contingency reserve in their statutory financial statements to provide for losses in the event of significant economic declines. Annual additions to the statutory contingency reserve must equal the greater of (i) 50% of net earned premiums or (ii) the required level of policyholders position, as defined by Insurance Laws. These contingency reserves generally are 44 Table of Contents held until the earlier of (i) the time that loss ratios exceed 35% or (ii) ten years, although regulators have granted discretionary releases from time to time. The statutory contingency reserve for our U.S. mortgage insurers was approximately $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2007. This reserve reduces the policyholder surplus of our U.S. mortgage insurers, and therefore, their ability to pay dividends to us. Federal regulation In addition to federal laws that directly affect mortgage insurers, private mortgage insurers are affected indirectly by federal legislation and regulation affecting mortgage originators and lenders, by purchasers of mortgage loans such as Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, and by governmental insurers such as the FHA and VA. For example, changes in federal housing legislation and other laws and regulations that affect the demand for private mortgage insurance may have a material effect on private mortgage insurers. Legislation or regulation that increases the number of people eligible for FHA or VA mortgages could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to compete with the FHA or VA. The Homeowners Protection Act provides for the automatic termination, or cancellation upon a borrowers request, of private mortgage insurance upon satisfaction of certain conditions. The Homeowners Protection Act applies to owner occupied residential mortgage loans regardless of lien priority and to borrower paid mortgage insurance closed after July 29, 1999. FHA loans are not covered by the Homeowners Protection Act. Under the Homeowners Protection Act, automatic termination of mortgage insurance would generally occur once the loan to value ratio reaches 78%. A borrower generally may request cancellation of mortgage insurance once the actual payments reduce the loan balance to 80% of the homes original value. For borrower initiated cancellation of mortgage insurance, the borrower must have a good payment history as defined by the Homeowners Protection Act. The Real Estate Settlement and Procedures Act of 1974 (RESPA) applies to most residential mortgages insured by private mortgage insurers. Mortgage insurance has been considered in some cases to be a settlement service for purposes of loans subject to RESPA. Subject to limited exceptions, RESPA precludes us from providing services to mortgage lenders free of charge, charging fees for services that are lower than their reasonable or fair market value, and paying fees for services that others provide that are higher than their reasonable or fair market value. In addition, RESPA prohibits persons from giving or accepting any portion or percentage of a charge for a real estate settlement service, other than for services actually performed. Although many states prohibit mortgage insurers from giving rebates, RESPA has been interpreted to cover many non fee services as well. Mortgage insurers and their customers are subject to the possible sanctions of this law, which may be enforced by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Administration (HUD), state insurance departments, state attorneys general and other enforcement authorities. The Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA) and the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) also affect the business of mortgage insurance in various ways. ECOA, for example, prohibits discrimination against certain protected classes in credit transactions. FCRA governs the access and use of consumer credit information in credit transactions and requires notices to consumers in certain circumstances. Most originators of mortgage loans are required to collect and report data relating to a mortgage loan applicants race, nationality, gender, marital status and census tract to HUD or the Federal Reserve under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 (HMDA). The purpose of HMDA is to detect possible impermissible discrimination in home lending and, through disclosure, to discourage such discrimination. Mortgage insurers are not required to report HMDA data although, under the laws of several states, mortgage insurers currently are prohibited from discriminating on the basis of certain classifications. Mortgage insurers have, through Mortgage Insurance Companies of America (MICA), entered voluntarily into an agreement with the Federal Financial Institutions Examinations Council to report the same data on loans submitted for insurance as is required for most mortgage lenders under HMDA. 45 Table of Contents International regulation Canada The Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions (OSFI) provides oversight to all federally incorporated financial institutions, including our Canadian mortgage insurance company. OSFI does not have enforcement powers over market conduct issues in the insurance industry, which are a provincial responsibility. The Federal Bank Act, Insurance Companies Act and Trust and Loan Companies Act prohibits Canadian banks, trust companies and insurers from extending mortgage loans where the loan value exceeds 80% of the propertys value, unless mortgage insurance is obtained in connection with the loan. As a result, all mortgages issued by these financial institutions with a loan to value ratio exceeding 80% must be insured by a qualified insurer or the CMHC. As a result of a periodic review of the federal financial services regulatory framework the Canadian Parliament in April 2007 passed legislation that increased from 75% to 80% the loan to value threshold above which mortgage insurance is required by federal statute. This may result in a reduction in the amount of business we write in future years in Canada. We have an agreement with the Canadian government under which it guarantees the benefits payable under a mortgage insurance policy, less 10% of the original principal amount of an insured loan, in the event that we fail to make claim payments with respect to that loan because of insolvency. We pay the Canadian government a risk premium for this guarantee and make other payments to a reserve fund in respect of the governments obligation. Because banks are not required to maintain regulatory capital on an asset backed by a sovereign guarantee, our 90% sovereign guarantee permits lenders purchasing our mortgage insurance to reduce their regulatory capital charges for credit risks on mortgages by 90%. The legislative requirement in Canada to obtain mortgage insurance on high loan to value mortgages and the favorable capital treatment given to financial institutions because of our 90% sovereign guarantee effectively precludes these financial institutions from issuing simultaneous second mortgage products similar to those offered in the U.S. Australia APRA regulates all financial institutions in Australia, including general, life and mortgage insurance companies. Effective July 1, 2002, APRA provided new regulatory standards for all general insurers, including mortgage insurers. APRAs license conditions currently require Australian mortgage insurers to be monoline insurers, which are insurers offering just one type of insurance product. APRA also sets authorized capital levels and regulates corporate governance requirements, including our risk management strategy. In this regard, APRA reviews our management, controls, processes, reporting and methods by which all risks are managed, including a periodic review of outstanding insurance liabilities by an approved actuary, and a reinsurance management strategy, which outlines our use of reinsurance in Australia. In addition, APRA determines the capital requirements for depository institutions and provides for reduced capital requirements for certain depository institutions that insure residential mortgages with an acceptable mortgage insurer for all non standard mortgages and for standard mortgages with loan to value ratios above 80%. APRAs regulations currently set out a number of circumstances in which a loan may be considered to be non standard from a depository institutions perspective. Effective January 1, 2006, APRA adopted new regulations regarding: Minimum capital requirements for mortgage insurance companies; Reporting obligations of mortgage insurance companies; and 46 Table of Contents Conditions under which depository institutions will be entitled to reduced capital requirements for insured loans. APRA rules also provide that LMI on a non performing loan (90 days plus arrears) protects most depository institutions from having to increase the regulatory capital on the loan to a risk weighting of 100%. The new regulations impose significantly higher minimum capital requirements on mortgage insurers to assure they have sufficient capital to withstand a hypothetical three year stress loss scenario. In addition, the new regulations increase mortgage insurers capital requirements for insured loans that are considered to be non standard. Our Australian mortgage insurance subsidiary met these new minimum capital requirements as of January 1, 2007. The new regulations also impose additional quarterly reporting obligations on mortgage insurers with respect to risk profiles and reinsurance arrangements, amend the definition of an acceptable mortgage insurer and eliminate the reduced capital requirements for depository institutions in the event that the mortgage insurer has contractual recourse to the depository institution or a member of its consolidated group. United Kingdom and Europe The U.K. is a member of the European Union and applies the harmonized system of regulation set out in the European Union directives. Our authorization to provide mortgage insurance in the U.K. enables us to offer our products in all the European Union member states, subject to certain regulatory requirements of the FSA and, in some cases, local regulatory requirements. We can provide mortgage insurance only in the classes for which we have authorization under applicable regulations and must maintain required risk and capital reserves. We are also subject to the oversight of other regulatory agencies in other countries where we do business throughout Europe. For more information about U.K. insurance regulation that affects our mortgage subsidiaries that operate in the U.K., see U.K. Insurance Regulation. Other Non U.S. Insurance Regulation We operate in a number of countries around the world in addition to the U.S., Canada, Australia and the United Kingdom, including Mexico, Japan, Spain, Guernsey and Bermuda. Generally, our subsidiaries (and in some cases our branches) conducting business in these countries must obtain licenses from local regulatory authorities and satisfy local regulatory requirements, including those relating to rates, forms, capital, reserves and financial reporting. Other Laws and Regulations Securities regulation Certain of our U.S. subsidiaries and certain policies, contracts and services offered by them, are subject to regulation under federal and state securities laws and regulations of the SEC, state securities regulators and FINRA. Certain of our U.S. subsidiaries are investment advisers registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 or applicable state securities laws. Certain of their employees are licensed as investment advisory representatives in states as required by state law. Two of our U.S. investment adviser subsidiaries manage investment companies that are registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940. In addition, some of our insurance company separate accounts are registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Some variable annuity contracts and all of our variable life insurance policies, as well as our FABNs issued as part of our registered notes program issued by one of our U.S. subsidiaries are registered under the Securities Act of 1933. Certain of our U.S. subsidiaries are registered and regulated as broker/dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and are members of, and subject to regulation by, FINRA, as well as by various state and local regulators. The registered representatives of our broker/dealers are also regulated by the SEC and FINRA and are further subject to applicable state and local laws. 47 Table of Contents These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities markets and generally grant supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. In such event, the possible sanctions that may be imposed include suspension of individual employees, limitations on the activities in which the investment adviser or broker/dealer may engage, suspension or revocation of the investment adviser or broker/dealer registration, censure or fines. We may also be subject to similar laws and regulations in the states and other countries in which we provide investment advisory services, offer the products described above or conduct other securities related activities. Certain of our U.S. subsidiaries also sponsor and manage investment vehicles that rely on certain exemptions from registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the Securities Act of 1933. Nevertheless, certain provisions of the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the Securities Act of 1933 apply to these investment vehicles and the securities issued by such vehicles. The Investment Company Act of 1940, the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Securities Act of 1933, including the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, are subject to change, which may affect our U.S. subsidiaries that sponsor and manage such investment vehicles. The SEC, FINRA, state attorneys general, other federal offices and the NYSE may conduct periodic examinations, in addition, to special or targeted examinations of us and or specific products. These examinations or inquiries may include, but are not necessarily limited to, product disclosures and sales issues, financial and accounting disclosure and operational issues. Often examinations are sweep exams whereby the regulator reviews current issues facing the financial or insurance industry. Reverse mortgage regulation Liberty, our recently acquired originator of reverse mortgage loans, is subject to various Federal and State laws and regulations including mortgage banking laws and regulations (Mortgage Banking Laws), as well as other Federal and State laws and regulations protecting privacy and other consumer rights. Liberty is regulated by the mortgage banking departments of the states in which it is licensed, as well as the FHA with respect to loans insured through HUD. In addition, mortgage banking authorities (including state law enforcement agencies and attorneys general) increasingly make inquiries regarding compliance with Mortgage Banking Laws and other applicable laws and regulations, and we cooperate with such inquiries and take corrective action when warranted. HUD conducts periodic, detailed examinations of the loans and business practices of reverse mortgage loans it insures. Environmental considerations As an owner and operator of real property, we are subject to extensive U.S. federal and state and non U.S. environmental laws and regulations. Potential environmental liabilities and costs in connection with any required remediation of such properties also is an inherent risk in property ownership and operation. In addition, we hold equity interests in companies and have made loans secured by properties that could potentially be subject to environmental liabilities. We routinely have environmental assessments performed with respect to real estate being acquired for investment and real property to be acquired through foreclosure. We cannot provide assurance that unexpected environmental liabilities will not arise. However, based upon information currently available to us, we believe that any costs associated with compliance with environmental laws and regulations or any remediation of such properties will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. ERISA considerations We provide certain products and services to certain employee benefit plans that are subject to ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code. As such, our activities are subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Internal 48 Table of Contents Revenue Code, including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries and fiduciaries may not cause a covered plan to engage in certain prohibited transactions with persons who have certain relationships with respect to such plans. The applicable provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code are subject to enforcement by the U.S. Department of Labor, the IRS and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. USA PATRIOT Act The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the Patriot Act), enacted in response to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, contains anti money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various new regulations applicable to broker/dealers and other financial services companies including insurance companies. The Patriot Act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties that may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. Anti money laundering laws outside of the U.S. contain similar provisions. The increased obligations of financial institutions to identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and share information with other financial institutions, require the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls. We believe that we have implemented, and that we maintain, appropriate internal practices, procedures and controls to enable us to comply with the provisions of the Patriot Act. Certain additional requirements became applicable under the Patriot Act in May 2006 through a U.S. Treasury regulation, which required that certain insurers have anti money laundering compliance plans in place. We will comply with these new provisions as they become applicable to us. Privacy of consumer information U.S. federal and state laws and regulations require financial institutions, including insurance companies, to protect the security and confidentiality of consumer financial information and to notify consumers about their policies and practices relating to their collection and disclosure of consumer information and their policies relating to protecting the security and confidentiality of that information. Similarly, federal and state laws and regulations also govern the disclosure and security of consumer health information. In particular, regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services regulate the disclosure and use of protected health information by health insurers and others, the physical and procedural safeguards employed to protect the security of that information and the electronic transmission of such information. Congress and state legislatures are expected to consider additional legislation relating to privacy and other aspects of consumer information. In Europe, the collection and use of personal information is subject to strict regulation. The European Unions Data Protection Directive establishes a series of privacy requirements that European Union member states are obliged to enact in their national legislation. European countries that are not European Union member states have similar privacy requirements in their national laws. These requirements generally apply to all businesses, including insurance companies. In general, companies may process personal information only if consent has been obtained from the persons concerned or if certain other conditions are met. These other requirements include the provision of notice to customers and other persons concerning how their personal information is used and disclosed, limitations on the transfer of personal information to countries outside the European Union, registration with the national privacy authorities, where applicable, and the use of appropriate information security measures against the access or use of personal information by unauthorized persons. Similar laws and regulations protecting the security and confidentiality of consumer and financial information are also in effect in Canada, Australia and other countries in which we operate. Employees As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately 7,000 full time and part time employees. We believe our employee relations are satisfactory. To the best of our knowledge, none of our employees are subject to 49 Table of Contents collective bargaining agreements. Some of our employees in Europe may be members of trade unions, but local data privacy laws prohibit us from asking them about their membership in trade unions, and they are not required to inform us. Directors and Executive Officers See Part III, Item 10 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for information about our directors and executive officers. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available, without charge, on our website, www.genworth.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports with the SEC. Our SEC filings are also accessible through the Internet at the SECs web site at www.sec.gov. Copies are also available, without charge, from Genworth Investor Relations, 6620 West Broad Street, Richmond, VA 23230. Our website also includes the charters of our Audit Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Legal and Public Affairs Committee, and Management Development and Compensation Committee, any key practices of these committees, our Governance Principles, and our companys code of ethics. Copies of these materials also are available, without charge, from Genworth Investor Relations, at the above address. Within the time period required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, we will post on our website any amendment to our code of ethics and any waiver applicable to any of our directors, executive officers or senior financial officers. On May 25, 2007, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer certified to the New York Stock Exchange that he was not aware of any violation by us of the New York Stock Exchanges corporate governance listing standards. Transfer Agent and Registrar Our Transfer Agent and Registrar is The Bank of New York Mellon, P.O. Box 358015, Pittsburgh, PA 15252 8015. Telephone: 866 229 8413; 201 680 6578 (outside the U.S. and Canada may call collect); and 800 231 5469 (for hearing impaired). 50 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks. These risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our common stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward looking statements made by us or on our behalf. These risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under Cautionary note regarding forward looking statements and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Risks Relating to Our Businesses Interest rate fluctuations could adversely affect our business and profitability. Our insurance and investment products are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations and expose us to the risk that falling interest rates will reduce our spread, or the difference between the returns we earn on the investments that support our obligations under these products and the amounts that we must pay policyholders and contractholders. Because we may reduce the interest rates we credit on most of these products only at limited, pre established intervals, and because some contracts have guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates, declines in interest rates may adversely affect the profitability of these products. During periods of increasing market interest rates, we may offer higher crediting rates on interest sensitive products, such as universal life insurance and fixed annuities, and we may increase crediting rates on in force products to keep these products competitive. In addition, rapidly rising interest rates may cause increased policy surrenders, withdrawals from life insurance policies and annuity contracts and requests for policy loans, as policyholders and contractholders shift assets into higher yielding investments. Increases in crediting rates, as well as surrenders and withdrawals, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our term life and long term care insurance products also expose us to the risk of interest rate fluctuations. The pricing and expected future profitability of these products are based in part on expected investment returns. Over time, term life and long term care insurance products generally produce positive cash flows as customers pay periodic premiums, which we invest as we receive them. Low interest rates may reduce our ability to achieve our targeted investment margins and may adversely affect the profitability of our term life and long term care insurance products. In both the U.S. and international mortgage markets, rising interest rates generally reduce the volume of new mortgage originations. A decline in the volume of new mortgage originations would have an adverse effect on our new mortgage insurance written. Rising interest rates also can increase the monthly mortgage payments for insured homeowners with adjustable rate mortgages (ARM) which could have the effect of increasing default rates on ARM loans and thereby increasing our exposure on our mortgage insurance policies. This is particularly relevant in our international mortgage insurance business, where ARMs are the predominant mortgage product. ARMs also have increased as a percentage of the U.S. mortgage loans that we insure. Declining interest rates increase the rate at which insured borrowers refinance their existing mortgages, thereby resulting in cancellations of the mortgage insurance covering the refinanced loans. Declining interest rates may also contribute to home price appreciation, which may provide insured borrowers in the U.S. with the option of canceling their mortgage insurance coverage earlier than we anticipated in pricing that coverage. These cancellations could have an adverse effect on our results from our mortgage insurance business. Interest rate fluctuations also could have an adverse effect on the results of our investment portfolios. During periods of declining market interest rates, the interest we receive on variable interest rate investments decreases. In addition, during those periods, we are forced to reinvest the cash we receive as interest or return of 51 Table of Contents principal on our investments in lower yielding high grade instruments or in lower credit instruments to maintain comparable returns. Issuers of fixed income securities also may decide to prepay their obligations in order to borrow at lower market rates, which exacerbates the risk that we may have to invest the cash proceeds of these securities in lower yielding or lower credit instruments. Additionally, recent volatility and uncertainty in the sub prime residential market has resulted in increased interest rates and delinquency rates. These developments have had an adverse impact on our U.S. mortgage insurance business, as well as our investments in securities backed by sub prime residential mortgage loans. See A deterioration in economic conditions or a decline in home price appreciation may adversely affect our loss experience in mortgage insurance. Downturns and volatility in equity and credit markets could adversely affect our business and profitability. Significant downturns and volatility in equity and credit markets could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in several ways. Equity markets Downturns and volatility in equity markets may discourage purchases of separate account products, such as variable annuities and variable life insurance, that have returns linked to the performance of the equity markets and may cause some existing customers to withdraw cash values or reduce investments in those products. Our revenues and returns from our mutual fund wrapped and separately managed account products and services could also be impacted by downturns and volatility in equity markets. Because these products and services generate fees generally from the value of assets under management, a decline in the equity markets could reduce our revenues by reducing the value of the investment assets we manage. Downturns in equity markets could also lead to an increase in liabilities associated with secondary guarantee features, such as guaranteed minimum benefits on separate account products, where we have equity market risk exposure. Credit markets Issuers of the fixed income securities and commercial mortgage loans that we own may default on principal and interest payments if there are downturns and volatility in credit markets. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had fixed maturity securities in or near default (where the issuer has missed payment of principal or interest or entered bankruptcy) with a fair value of $11 million and $16 million, respectively. An economic downturn, or a variety of other factors, could cause declines in the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and cause our net income to decline. During 2007, credit markets experienced reduced liquidity, higher volatility and widening credit spreads across asset classes mainly as a result of marketplace uncertainty arising from higher defaults in sub prime and Alt A residential mortgage loans. In connection with this uncertainty, we believe investors and lenders have retreated from many investments in asset backed securities including those associated with sub prime and Alt A residential mortgage loans, as well as types of debt investments with weak lender protections or those with limited transparency and or complex features which hindered investor understanding. At the same time, investors shifted emphasis towards safety pushing up the demand for U.S. Treasury instruments. The current credit market conditions resulted in an unfavorable liquidity environment for issuers of financial instruments including commercial paper, long term debt and asset backed securities. In addition, this downturn has an adverse effect on our ability to efficiently access capital markets for capital management purposes, including the issuance of fixed and floating rate non recourse funding obligations for purposes of supporting our term and universal life insurance products. Investors in certain of our institutional products, such as FABNs and funding agreements, may be encouraged not to exercise their option to extend maturity dates in favor of investment alternatives offering 52 Table of Contents higher returns or different liquidity features if there are downturns and volatility in credit markets. Because we earn a spread between interest earned and interest credited on these institutional products under management, the failure of investors in these products to extend the maturity dates could reduce our revenues and profitability by reducing institutional product liabilities we manage. In addition, the earlier than anticipated maturity of these institutional funds on deposit may cause us to liquidate underlying investments earlier than anticipated, which could result in investment losses, depending on market conditions at the time. A downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Financial strength ratings, which various ratings organizations publish as measures of an insurance companys ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in our products, the ability to market our products and our competitive position. Our principal life insurance companies currently have financial strength ratings of AA (Very Strong) from S&P and Fitch, A+ (Superior) from A.M. Best and Aa3 (Excellent) from Moodys. Our mortgage insurance companies currently have financial strength ratings of AA (Very Strong) from S&P and Fitch, Aa2 (Excellent) from Moodys and or AA (Superior) from DBRS. The A+ rating is the second highest of A.M. Bests 15 ratings. The AA and AA ratings are the third and fourth highest of S&Ps 21 ratings categories, respectively. The Aa2 and Aa3 ratings are the third and fourth highest of Moodys 21 ratings categories, respectively. The AA and AA ratings are the third and fourth highest of Fitchs 21 ratings categories. The AA rating is the second highest of DBRSs ten ratings categories. In early 2008, Moodys and S&P, as part of a broad reassessment of the U.S. mortgage insurance industry, affirmed the ratings of our principal mortgage insurance subsidiaries and, at the same time, changed the rating outlook from stable to negative. A downgrade in any of our financial strength ratings, or the announced potential for a downgrade, could have a significantly adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations in many ways, including: reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products; adversely affecting our relationships with independent sales intermediaries and our dedicated sales specialists; materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders; requiring us to reduce prices for many of our products and services to remain competitive; requiring us to post additional collateral or terminate contracts under the terms of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association agreements with derivative counterparties; adversely affecting our ability to obtain reinsurance or obtain reasonable pricing on reinsurance; and increasing our cost of borrowing. If our mortgage insurance companies financial strength ratings decrease below the thresholds established by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, we would not be able to insure mortgages purchased by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac currently require maintenance of a rating by at least two out of three listed rating agencies (S&P, Fitch and Moodys) of at least AA /Aa3 (as applicable), with no rating below those levels by any of the three listed rating agencies; otherwise additional limitations or requirements may be imposed for eligibility to insure loans purchased by the GSEs. In February 2008, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac temporarily suspended automatic imposition of the additional requirements otherwise applicable upon a ratings downgrade below the above described requirements, subject to certain specified conditions. As of December 31, 2007, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac purchased the majority of the flow loans we insured in the U.S. An inability to insure mortgage loans sold to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, or their transfer of our existing policies to an alternative mortgage insurer, would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 53 Table of Contents In addition, the current maximum rate on our non recourse funding obligations may be reset to higher rates based on rating agency downgrades of the third party financial guaranty insurance companies that guaranteed these obligations. If our reserves for future policy claims are inadequate, we may be required to increase our reserve liabilities, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We calculate and maintain reserves for estimated future payments of claims to our policyholders and contractholders in accordance with U.S. GAAP and industry accounting practices. We release these reserves as those future obligations are extinguished. The reserves we establish necessarily reflect estimates and actuarial assumptions with regard to our future experience. These estimates and actuarial assumptions involve the exercise of significant judgment. Our future financial results depend significantly upon the extent to which our actual future experience is consistent with the assumptions we have used in pricing our products and determining our reserves. Many factors can affect future experience, including economic and social conditions, inflation, healthcare costs, policyholder persistency (resulting in adverse claims experience), and changes in doctrines of legal liability and damage awards in litigation. Therefore, we cannot determine with precision the ultimate amounts we will pay for actual claims or the timing of those payments. We regularly monitor our reserves. If we conclude that our reserves are insufficient to cover actual or expected policy and contract benefits and claims payments, we would be required to increase our reserves and incur income statement charges for the period in which we make the determination, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We recently increased our loss reserves for our U.S. mortgage insurance business as a result of an increase in delinquencies, along with an increase in the average loan balance of mortgage loan delinquencies. See Risks Relating to Our U.S. Mortgage Insurance Segment below. As a holding company, we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us to pay dividends and to meet our obligations. We act as a holding company for our insurance subsidiaries and do not have any significant operations of our own. Dividends from our subsidiaries and permitted payments to us under our tax sharing arrangements with our subsidiaries are our principal sources of cash to pay stockholder dividends and to meet our obligations. These obligations include our operating expenses and interest and principal on our current and any future borrowings. These obligations also include amounts we owe to GE under the tax matters agreement that we and GE entered into in connection with our IPO. If the cash we receive from our subsidiaries pursuant to dividend payment and tax sharing arrangements is insufficient for us to fund any of these obligations, we may be required to raise cash through the incurrence of debt, the issuance of additional equity or the sale of assets. The payment of dividends and other distributions to us by our insurance subsidiaries is regulated by insurance laws and regulations. In general, dividends in excess of prescribed limits are deemed extraordinary and require insurance regulatory approval. In addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of ordinary dividends or other payments by our insurance subsidiaries to us (such as a payment under a tax sharing agreement or for employee or other services) if they determine that such payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. The ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to us, and our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders, are also subject to various guidelines established by the rating agencies for us to maintain our ratings. Intense competition could negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our market share and profitability. Our businesses are subject to intense competition. We believe the principal competitive factors in the sale of our products are product features, price, commission structure, marketing and distribution arrangements, brand, reputation, financial strength ratings and service. 54 Table of Contents Many other companies actively compete for sales in our retirement and protection markets, including other major insurers, banks, other financial institutions, mutual fund and asset management firms and specialty and capital markets providers. In addition, alternative products that leverage the capital markets could compete with traditional insurance products and reduce our market share. The principal direct and indirect competitors for our U.S. and increasingly, international mortgage insurance businesses include other private mortgage insurers, structured transactions in the capital markets, other financial instruments designed to manage credit risk, such as credit default swaps and credit linked notes, lenders who forego mortgage insurance, or self insure, on loans held in their portfolios, and lenders that provide mortgage reinsurance through captive mortgage reinsurance programs. Further, we also compete with governmental and quasi governmental agencies, including in the U.S., the FHA and to a lesser degree, the VA, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. In Canada and some European countries, our mortgage insurance business competes directly with government entities, which provide comparable mortgage insurance. Government entities with which we compete typically do not have the same capital requirements and do not have the same profit objectives as we do. In many of our product lines, we face competition from competitors that have greater market share or breadth of distribution, offer a broader range of products, services or features, assume a greater level of risk, have lower profitability expectations or have higher financial strength ratings than we do. Many competitors offer similar products and use similar distribution channels. The substantial expansion of banks and insurance companies distribution capacities and expansion of product features in recent years have intensified pressure on margins and production levels and have increased the level of competition in many of our business lines. In addition, in recent years, banks, insurance companies and other financial services companies, many of which offer products similar to ours and use similar distribution channels, have consolidated. Further consolidation among banks, insurance companies and other financial services companies could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations if the surviving entity requires more favorable terms than we had previously been offering to one or more of the combined companies or if it elects not to continue to do business with us following the consolidation. Reinsurance may not be available, affordable or adequate to protect us against losses. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various business segments. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance protection we purchase. Accordingly, we may be forced to incur additional expenses for reinsurance or may not be able to obtain sufficient reinsurance on acceptable terms, which could adversely affect our ability to write future business. If the counterparties to our reinsurance arrangements or to the derivative instruments we use to hedge our business risks default or fail to perform, we may be exposed to risks we had sought to mitigate, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We use reinsurance and derivative instruments to mitigate our risks in various circumstances. Reinsurance does not relieve us of our direct liability to our policyholders, even when the reinsurer is liable to us. Accordingly, we bear credit risk with respect to our reinsurers. We cannot assure you that our reinsurers will pay the reinsurance recoverable owed to us now or in the future or that they will pay these recoverables on a timely basis. A reinsurers insolvency, inability or unwillingness to make payments under the terms of its reinsurance agreement with us could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Prior to the completion of the IPO, we ceded to UFLIC substantially all of our in force structured settlements block of business, variable annuity business and the long term care insurance assumed from MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut, formerly known as The Travelers Insurance Company, as of December 31, 2003. UFLIC has established trust accounts for our benefit to secure its obligations under the reinsurance arrangements, and General Electric Capital Corporation (GE Capital), an indirect subsidiary of GE, has agreed to maintain UFLICs risk based capital above a specified minimum level. If UFLIC becomes insolvent 55 Table of Contents notwithstanding this agreement, and the amounts in the trust accounts are insufficient to pay UFLICs obligations to us, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. See note 10 in our consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our consolidated financial statements, the related notes and the accompanying independent registered public accounting firms report (which refers to changes in accounting for deferred acquisition costs in connection with modifications or exchanges of insurance contracts in 2007, and share based payments and pension and other postretirement plan obligations in 2006), which are included in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The financial information in this Annual Report on Form 10 K has been derived from our financial statements, which have been prepared as if Genworth had been in existence throughout all periods. Our consolidated financial statements include, for all periods, the insurance businesses that we acquired from GE subsidiaries in connection with our corporate formation on May 24, 2004. Until the corporate formation, our financial statements also included the businesses that were owned by GE Financial Assurance Holdings, Inc. (GEFAHI) but not transferred to us in connection with our corporate formation. Years ended December 31, (Amounts in millions, except per share amounts) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 (1) Consolidated Statements of Income Information Revenues: Premiums $ 6,330 $ 5,802 $ 5,638 $ 5,936 $ 6,099 Net investment income 4,135 3,787 3,489 3,600 4,000 Net investment gains (losses) (332 ) (69 ) (1 ) 27 12 Insurance and investment product fees and other 992 765 660 804 887 Total revenues 11,125 10,285 9,786 10,367 10,998 Benefits and expenses: Benefits and operating expenses 9,038 8,068 7,748 8,566 9,553 Interest expense 481 364 293 217 140 Total benefits and expenses 9,519 8,432 8,041 8,783 9,693 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change 1,606 1,853 1,745 1,584 1,305 Provision for income taxes 452 570 559 475 384 Income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of accounting change $ 1,154 $ 1,283 $ 1,186 $ 1,109 $ 921 Earnings from continuing operations per common share (2): Basic $ 2.62 $ 2.81 $ 2.50 $ 2.27 $ 1.88 Diluted $ 2.58 $ 2.73 $ 2.45 $ 2.26 $ 1.88 Shares outstanding (2): Basic 439.7 455.9 475.3 489.5 489.5 Diluted 447.6 469.4 484.6 490.5 489.5 Cash dividends declared per common share (3) $ 0.38 $ 0.33 $ 0.28 $ 0.13 78 Table of Contents Years ended December 31, (Amounts in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 (1) Selected Segment Information Total revenues: Retirement and Protection $ 7,559 $ 7,365 $ 6,882 $ 7,190 $ 7,654 International 2,689 2,144 2,103 2,083 1,982 U.S. Mortgage Insurance 805 658 607 609 665 Affinity (4) 218 566 Corporate and Other 72 118 194 267 131 Total $ 11,125 $ 10,285 $ 9,786 $ 10,367 $ 10,998 Income (loss) from continuing operations before cumulative effect of accounting change: Retirement and Protection $ 565 $ 673 $ 694 $ 570 $ 535 International 580 469 359 285 252 U.S. Mortgage Insurance 171 262 238 224 181 Affinity (4) (14 ) 16 Corporate and Other (162 ) (121 ) (105 ) 44 (63 ) Total $ 1,154 $ 1,283 $ 1,186 $ 1,109 $ 921 Consolidated Balance Sheet Information Total investments $ 70,800 $ 68,573 $ 66,020 $ 64,307 $ 77,818 All other assets (5) 43,515 40,316 37,692 37,728 23,750 Assets associated with discontinued operations 1,982 1,942 1,843 1,863 Total assets $ 114,315 $ 110,871 $ 105,654 $ 103,878 $ 103,431 Policyholder liabilities $ 72,977 $ 70,793 $ 69,716 $ 67,652 $ 65,120 Non recourse funding obligations 3,455 2,765 1,400 900 600 Short term borrowings 200 199 152 559 2,239 Long term borrowings 3,903 4,021 3,436 3,142 529 All other liabilities 20,302 18,340 16,239 17,453 17,792 Liabilities associated with discontinued operations 1,423 1,401 1,306 1,351 Total liabilities $ 100,837 $ 97,541 $ 92,344 $ 91,012 $ 87,631 Accumulated other comprehensive income $ 727 $ 1,157 $ 1,404 $ 1,608 $ 1,672 Total stockholders equity $ 13,478 $ 13,330 $ 13,310 $ 12,866 $ 15,800 U.S. Statutory Financial Information (6) Statutory capital and surplus (7) $ 6,711 $ 7,234 $ 6,672 $ 6,439 $ 7,021 Asset valuation reserve (8) $ 430 $ 439 $ 416 $ 427 $ 413 (1) On August 29, 2003, we sold our Japanese life insurance and domestic auto and homeowners insurance businesses for aggregate cash proceeds of approximately $2.1 billion, consisting of $1.6 billion paid to us and $0.5 billion paid to other GE affiliates, plus pre closing dividends. (2) Basic and diluted earnings from continuing operations per common share are calculated by dividing income from continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 by 439.7 million, 455.9 million and 475.3 million weighted average basic shares outstanding, respectively, and by 447.6 million, 469.4 million and 484.6 million weighted average diluted shares outstanding, respectively. Weighted average shares outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2004 are determined as if our reorganization had occurred at the beginning of the year. Basic and diluted earnings from continuing operations per common share are calculated by dividing income from continuing operations by 489.5 million shares outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2003. The number of shares used in our calculation of diluted earnings per common share in 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007 is affected by the additional 79 Table of Contents shares of Class A Common Stock issuable under Equity Units, stock options, restricted stock units and stock appreciation rights and is calculated using the treasury method. (3) Following the completion of the IPO, we declared quarterly dividends of $0.065 per common share in the third and fourth quarters of 2004 and first and second quarters of 2005. We declared quarterly dividends of $0.075 per common share in the third and fourth quarters of 2005 and first and second quarter of 2006. During the third quarter of 2006, we increased the quarterly dividend 20% and declared dividends of $0.09 per common share in the third and fourth quarters of 2006 and the first and second quarters of 2007. During the third quarter of 2007, we increased the quarterly dividend 11% and declared dividends of $0.10 per common share in the third and fourth quarters of 2007. (4) Reflects the results of businesses that were owned by GEFAHI but were not transferred to us in connection with our corporate formation, including (a) the partnership marketing group business, (b) an institutional asset management business, and (c) several other small businesses that were not part of our core ongoing business. (5) Prior to the completion of the IPO, we entered into several significant reinsurance transactions with UFLIC, an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of GE, in which we ceded certain blocks of structured settlement annuities, variable annuities and long term care insurance. As a result of these transactions, we transferred investment securities to UFLIC and recorded a reinsurance recoverable that is included in all other assets. For a discussion of this transaction, refer to note 10 in our consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Overview Our business We are a leading financial security company in the U.S. with an expanding international presence. We have three operating segments: Retirement and Protection, International and U.S. Mortgage Insurance. Retirement and Protection. We offer a variety of protection, wealth accumulation, retirement income and institutional products. Protection products include: life insurance, long term care insurance and a linked benefits product that combines long term care insurance with universal life insurance. Additionally, we offer Medicare supplement insurance and wellness and care coordination services for our long term care policyholders. Our wealth accumulation and retirement income products principally include: fixed and variable deferred and immediate individual annuities, group variable annuities offered through retirement plans, and a variety of managed account programs, financial planning services and mutual funds. Institutional products include: funding agreements, FABNs and GICs. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our Retirement and Protection segments net income and net operating income were $565 million and $762 million, respectively. International. In Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Mexico, Japan and multiple European countries, we are a leading provider of mortgage insurance products. We are the largest private mortgage insurer in most of our international markets. We also provide mortgage insurance on a structured, or bulk, basis which aids in the sale of mortgages to the capital markets and helps lenders manage capital and risks. Additionally, we offer services, analytical tools and technology that enable lenders to operate efficiently and manage risk. We also offer payment protection coverages in multiple European countries, Canada and Mexico. Our payment protection insurance products help consumers meet specified payment obligations should they become unable to pay due to accident, illness, involuntary unemployment, disability or death. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our International segments net income and net operating income were $580 million and $585 million, respectively. U.S. Mortgage Insurance. In the U.S., we offer mortgage insurance products predominantly insuring prime based, individually underwritten residential mortgage loans, also known as flow mortgage insurance. We selectively provide mortgage insurance on a structured, or bulk, basis with essentially all of our bulk writings prime based. Additionally, we offer services, analytical tools and technology that enable lenders to operate efficiently and manage risk. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our U.S. Mortgage Insurance segments net income and net operating income were $171 million and $167 million, respectively. We also have Corporate and Other activities which include debt financing expenses that are incurred at our holding company level, unallocated corporate income and expenses, eliminations of inter segment transactions, the results of non core businesses that are managed outside of our operating segments and our group life and health insurance business, which we sold on May 31, 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2007, Corporate and Other activities had a loss from continuing operations and a net operating loss of $162 million and $141 million, respectively. Our corporate formation We were incorporated in Delaware on October 23, 2003 in preparation for our corporate formation and the IPO. In connection with the IPO, we acquired substantially all of the assets and liabilities of GEFAHI. GEFAHI 81 Table of Contents is an indirect subsidiary of GE and prior to the completion of the IPO, was a holding company for a group of companies that provide life insurance, long term care insurance, group life and health insurance, annuities and other investment products and U.S. mortgage insurance. We also acquired certain other insurance businesses that were owned by other GE subsidiaries but managed by members of the Genworth management team. These businesses include international mortgage insurance, payment protection insurance based in Europe, a Bermuda reinsurer and mortgage contract underwriting. In consideration for the assets that we acquired and the liabilities that we assumed in connection with our corporate formation, we issued to GEFAHI 489.5 million shares of our Class B Common Stock, $600 million of our Equity Units, $100 million of our Series A Preferred Stock, a $2.4 billion short term note and a $550 million contingent non interest bearing note. We refinanced the $2.4 billion note with $1.9 billion of senior notes and $500 million of commercial paper shortly after the IPO, and we repaid the contingent note in December 2004. In connection with our corporate formation and the IPO, we entered into a number of arrangements with GE governing our separation from GE and a variety of transition and other matters, including our relationship with GE while GE remained a significant stockholder in our company. These arrangements include several significant reinsurance transactions with UFLIC, an indirect subsidiary of GE. As part of these transactions, effective as of January 1, 2004, we ceded to UFLIC all of our structured settlement contracts and substantially all of our variable annuity contracts, and a block of long term care insurance policies that we reinsured in 2000 from MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut, formerly The Travelers Insurance Company. In the aggregate, these blocks of business did not meet our target return thresholds, and although we remain liable under these contracts and policies as the ceding insurer, the reinsurance transactions have the effect of transferring the financial results of the reinsured blocks to UFLIC. We continue to service the blocks of business that we reinsured, which preserves our operating scale and enables us to service and grow our new sales of these products. In addition, as part of the reinsurance transactions, UFLIC ceded to us substantially all of its in force blocks of Medicare supplement insurance. Our financial information The financial information in this Annual Report on Form 10 K has been derived from our consolidated financial statements. Our consolidated financial statements included our group life and health insurance business which was presented in our consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations until sold in May 2007. See note 4 to our consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion of the current market conditions. During the year ended December 31, 2007, the currency in our principal international locations (Canada, Australia and Europe) has strengthened significantly against the U.S. dollar. This has resulted in higher levels of reported revenues, net income, assets, liabilities and accumulated other comprehensive income in our U.S. dollar consolidated balance sheet. See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion on the impact changes in foreign currency rates have had during the year. We enter into market sensitive instruments primarily for purposes other than trading. The carrying value of our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $70.8 billion and $68.6 billion, respectively, of which 78% and 80%, respectively, was invested in fixed maturity securities. The primary market risk to our investment portfolio is interest rate risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. We mitigate the market risk associated with our fixed maturity securities portfolio by closely matching the duration of our fixed maturity securities with the duration of the liabilities that those securities are intended to support. The primary market risk for our long term borrowings is interest rate risk at the time of maturity or early redemption, when we may be required to refinance these obligations. We continue to monitor the interest rate environment and to evaluate refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. We are exposed to equity risk on our holdings of common stocks and other equities, as well as risk on products where we have equity market risk exposure. We manage equity price risk through industry and issuer diversification and asset allocation techniques. We also have exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. Our international operations generate revenues denominated in local currencies, and we invest cash generated outside the U.S. in non U.S. denominated securities. Although investing in securities denominated in local currencies limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on local operating results, we remain exposed to the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates as we translate the operating results of our foreign operations into our historical combined financial statements. We currently do not hedge this exposure. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, 50%, 37% and 30%, respectively, of our income from continuing operations were generated by our international operations. We use derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate and foreign currency swaps, financial futures and option based financial instruments, as part of our risk management strategy. We use these derivatives to mitigate certain risks, including interest rate risk, currency risk and equity risk, by: reducing the risk between the timing of the receipt of cash and its investment in the market; matching the currency of invested assets with the liabilities they support; converting the asset duration to match the duration of the liabilities; 157 Table of Contents reducing our exposure to fluctuations in equity market indices that underlie some of our products; and protecting against the early termination of an asset or liability. As a matter of policy, we have not and will not engage in derivative market making, speculative derivative trading or other speculative derivatives activities. Sensitivity analysis Sensitivity analysis measures the impact of hypothetical changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and other market rates or prices on the profitability of market sensitive financial instruments. The following discussion about the potential effects of changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market prices is based on so called shock tests, which model the effects of interest rate, foreign exchange rate and equity market price shifts on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we believe shock tests provide the most meaningful analysis permitted by the rules and regulations of the SEC, they are constrained by several factors, including the necessity to conduct the analysis based on a single point in time and by their inability to include the extraordinarily complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled. Although the following results of shock tests for changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market prices may have some limited use as benchmarks, they should not be viewed as forecasts. These forward looking disclosures also are selective in nature and address only the potential impacts on our financial instruments. They do not include a variety of other potential factors that could affect our business as a result of these changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and equity market prices. Interest Rate Risk One means of assessing exposure of our fixed maturity securities portfolio to interest rate changes is a duration based analysis that measures the potential changes in market value resulting from a hypothetical change in interest rates of 100 basis points across all maturities. This is sometimes referred to as a parallel shift in the yield curve. Under this model, with all other factors constant and assuming no offsetting change in the value of our liabilities, we estimated that such an increase in interest rates would cause the market value of our fixed income securities portfolio to decline by approximately $2.8 billion before the effect of deferred taxes, DAC and PVFP, based on our securities positions as of December 31, 2007. Foreign Currency Risk One means of assessing exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates is to model effects on reported income using a sensitivity analysis. We analyzed our combined currency exposure for the year ended December 31, 2007, including the results of our international operations financial instruments designated and effective as hedges to identify assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than their relevant functional currencies. Net unhedged exposures in each currency were then remeasured, generally assuming a 10% decrease in currency exchange rates compared to the U.S. dollar. Under this model, with all other factors constant, we estimated that such a decrease would decrease our income from continuing operations before income taxes by approximately $93 million. Equity Market Risk One means of assessing exposure to changes in equity market prices is to estimate the potential changes in market values on our equity investments resulting from a hypothetical broad based decline in equity market prices of 10%. Under this model, with all other factors constant, we estimated that such a decline in equity market prices would cause the market value of our equity investments to decline by approximately $5 million, based on our equity positions as of December 31, 2007. In addition, fluctuations in equity market prices affect 158 Table of Contents our revenues and returns from our variable annuity and managed money products, which depend upon fees that are related primarily to the value of assets under management, in relation to total change in fair value of the hedged item. Derivative counterparty credit risk We manage our derivative counterparty credit risk on an individual counterparty basis, which means that gains and losses are netted for each counterparty to determine the amount at risk. When a counterparty exceeds credit exposure limits in terms of amounts owed to us, typically as the result of changes in market conditions, no additional transactions are executed until the exposure with that counterparty is reduced to an amount that is within the established limit. The swaps that are executed under master swap agreements contain mutual credit downgrade provisions that provide the ability to require assignment or replacement in the event either partys unsecured debt rating is downgraded below Moodys Baa or S&Ps BBB. Swaps and purchased options with contractual maturities longer than one year are conducted within the credit policy constraints provided in the table below. Our policy permits us to enter into derivative transactions with counterparties rated A2 by Moodys and A by S&Ps if the agreements governing such transactions require both parties to provide collateral in certain circumstances. The following table sets forth derivative counterparty credit limits by credit rating as of December 31, 2007: (Amounts in millions) S&P rating Moodys rating Long term(exposures overone year) net ofcollateral Aggregate limits(including thoseunder one year)net of collateral Aggregate limit(gross of collateral) AAA Aaa $50 $125 $300 AA Aa3 25 100 250 A A2 15 90 200 159 Table of Contents 
 
