Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations International. As of or for the years endedDecember 31, (Amounts in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Revenues: International mortgage insurance $ 1,259 $ 1,350 $ 1,161 Lifestyle protection insurance 1,301 1,557 1,528 Total revenues $ 2,560 $ 2,907 $ 2,689 Net operating income available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders: International mortgage insurance $ 329 $ 481 $ 455 Lifestyle protection insurance 56 152 130 Total net operating income available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders 385 633 585 Net investment gains (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments (5 ) (16 ) (5 ) Expenses related to reorganization, net of taxes (9 ) Net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders 380 608 580 Add: net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 61 Net income (loss) $ 441 $ 608 $ 580 Total segment assets $ 12,143 $ 10,498 $ 11,892 International mortgage insurance We have significant mortgage insurance operations in Canada and Australia, two of the largest markets for mortgage insurance products outside of the U.S., as well as smaller operations in New Zealand and developing mortgage insurance markets such as Europe and Mexico. The mortgage loan markets in Canada and Australia are well developed, and mortgage insurance plays an important role in each of these markets. However, these markets vary significantly and are influenced by different cultural, economic and regulatory conditions. We believe the following factors have contributed to the growth of mortgage insurance demand in these countries: a desire by lenders to expand their business by offering low down payment mortgage loans; the recognition of the higher default risk inherent in low down payment lending and the need for specialized underwriting expertise to conduct this business prudently; government housing policies that support increased homeownership; government policies that support the use of securitization and secondary market mortgage sales, in which third party credit enhancement is often used as a source of funding and liquidity for mortgage lending; and bank regulatory capital policies that provide incentives to lenders to transfer some or all of the credit risk on low down payment mortgages to third parties, such as mortgage insurers. 15 Table of Contents Based upon our experience in the mature markets, we believe a favorable regulatory framework is important to the development of high loan to value lending and the use of products such as mortgage insurance to protect against default risk or to obtain capital relief. As a result, we have advocated governmental and policymaking agencies throughout our markets to adopt legislative and regulatory policies supporting increased homeownership and the use of private mortgage insurance. We have significant expertise in mature markets, and we leverage this experience in selected developing markets to encourage regulatory authorities to implement incentives to use private mortgage insurance as an important element of their housing finance systems. We believe the revisions to a set of regulatory rules and procedures governing global bank capital standards that were introduced by the Basel Committee of the Bank for International Settlements, known as Basel II, also may encourage further growth of international mortgage insurance. Basel II has been designed to reward banks that have developed effective risk management systems by allowing them to hold less capital than banks with less effective systems. While Basel II was finalized and issued in June 2004, its adoption by individual countries internationally and in the U.S. is ongoing and significant additions and changes to the accord are being considered in light of the recent global financial crisis which could aid or detract from future demand for mortgage insurance. Mortgage insurance in our International segment is predominantly single premium and provides 100% coverage in the two largest markets of Canada and Australia. Under single premium policies, the premium is usually included as part of the aggregate loan amount and paid to us as the mortgage insurer. We record the proceeds to unearned premium reserves, invest those proceeds and recognize the premiums over time in accordance with the expected pattern of risk emergence. Canada We entered the Canadian mortgage insurance market in 1995 and now operate in every province and territory. We are currently the leading private mortgage insurer in the Canadian market. The four largest mortgage originators in Canada provide the majority of the financing for residential mortgage financing in that country. Our five largest lender relationships in Canada provided the majority of our flow new insurance written in 2009. In July 2009, Genworth MI Canada Inc. (Genworth Canada), our indirect subsidiary, completed the initial public offering (the Offering) of its common shares. Of the 49.7 million common shares of Genworth Canada that were sold in the Offering, 5.1 million common shares were sold by Genworth Canada and 44.6 million common shares were sold by Brookfield Life Assurance Company Limited, our indirect wholly owned subsidiary. Following completion of the Offering, we beneficially own 57.5% of the common shares of Genworth Canada. Products We offer primary flow insurance and portfolio credit enhancement insurance. Regulations in Canada require the use of mortgage insurance for all mortgage loans extended by federally incorporated banks, trust companies and insurers, where the loan to value ratio exceeds 80%. We also provide portfolio credit enhancement insurance to lenders that have originated loans with loan to value ratios of less than or equal to 80%. These policies provide lenders with immediate capital relief from applicable bank regulatory capital requirements and facilitate the securitization of mortgages in the Canadian market. In both primary flow insurance and portfolio policies, our mortgage insurance in Canada provides insurance coverage for the entire unpaid loan balance, including interest, selling costs and expenses, following the sale of the underlying property. 16 Table of Contents Government guarantee We have an agreement with the Canadian government (the Government Guarantee Agreement) under which it guarantees the benefits payable under a mortgage insurance policy, less 10% of the original principal amount of an insured loan, in the event that we fail to make claim payments with respect to that loan because of insolvency. We pay the Canadian government a risk premium for this guarantee and make other payments to a reserve fund in respect of the governments obligation. Because banks are not required to maintain regulatory capital on an asset backed by a sovereign guarantee, our 90% sovereign guarantee permits lenders purchasing our mortgage insurance to reduce their regulatory capital charges for credit risks on mortgages by 90%. In July 2008, the Canadian government publicly announced adjustments to the rules for government guaranteed mortgages, including reducing the maximum amortization period to 35 years, requiring a minimum down payment of five percent and establishing a consistent minimum credit score. We incorporated these adjustments into our underwriting guidelines effective October 15, 2008. At the same time, the Canadian government sought changes to the Government Guarantee Agreement to incorporate these adjustments and to introduce other changes to modernize the Government Guarantee Agreement. In January 2010, the foregoing revisions to the Government Guarantee Agreement were formalized in an amendment to the Government Guarantee Agreement (the Amendment). Additionally, a provision was included in the Amendment that allows the government to implement industry wide policy changes to mortgages that benefit from a government guarantee. In February 2010, the Canadian government publicly announced adjustments to the rules for government guaranteed mortgages which (i) require that all borrowers meet the standards for a five year fixed rate mortgage, (ii) lower the maximum amount borrowers can withdraw in refinancing their mortgages to 90% from 95% of the value of their homes, and (iii) require a minimum down payment of 20% on non owner occupied properties purchased for speculation. These rules are expected to come into force in April 2010 and will be formalized in an amendment to the Government Guarantee Agreement. The Canadian Department of Finance has informed us that they intend to continue to review the Government Guarantee Agreement we have with the Canadian government, and we remain engaged in ongoing discussions with Department of Finance officials on this matter. Although we believe the Canadian government will preserve the Government Guarantee Agreement in order to maintain competition in the Canadian mortgage industry, we cannot be sure what, if any, further changes will be made to the terms of the Government Guarantee Agreement. Competition Our primary mortgage insurance competitor in Canada is the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC) which is owned by the Canadian government, although we have other competitors in the Canadian market. CMHCs mortgage insurance provides lenders with 100% capital relief from bank regulatory requirements. We compete with CMHC primarily based upon our reputation for high quality customer service, quick decision making on insurance applications, strong underwriting expertise, flexibility in product development and provision of support services. In 2009, as a result of the turmoil in the financial markets and tightened underwriting guidelines, there has been increased preference by lenders for CMHC insurance, which carries a lower capital charge and a 100% government guarantee, as compared to loans covered by our policy which benefits from a 90% government guarantee. Australia We entered the Australian mortgage insurance market in 1997 and the New Zealand mortgage insurance market in 1999. In 2009, we were the leading provider of mortgage insurance in Australia based upon flow new insurance written. We maintain strong relationships within the major bank and regional bank channels, as well as 17 Table of Contents building societies, credit unions and non bank mortgage originators called mortgage managers. As a result of the recent financial turmoil and associated liquidity crunch, funding for the regional banks and non bank originators was very limited or not available, with most of their origination volume shifting to the major banks. As a result of the recent shift, the two largest mortgage originators in Australia provide the majority of the financing for residential mortgage financing in that country. Our two largest lender relationships in Australia provided the majority of our flow new insurance written in 2009 while we continue to serve multiple mortgage originators and target other expanded distribution relationships. Products In Australia and New Zealand, we offer primary flow mortgage insurance, also known as lenders mortgage insurance (LMI), and portfolio credit enhancement policies. Our principal product is LMI which is similar to single premium primary flow insurance we offer in Canada with 100% coverage. Lenders either collect the single premium from borrowers at the time the loan proceeds are advanced or capitalize it in the loan and remit the amount to us as the mortgage insurer. We provide LMI on a flow basis to our customers. Banks, building societies and credit unions generally acquire LMI only for residential mortgage loans with loan to value ratios above 80%. The Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) regulations for approved deposit taking institutions provide reduced capital requirements for high loan to value residential mortgages if they have been insured by a mortgage insurance company regulated by APRA. APRAs license conditions require Australian mortgage insurance companies, including ours, to be monoline insurers, which are insurance companies that offer just one type of insurance product. We also provide portfolio credit enhancement policies to APRA regulated lenders that have originated Australian loans for securitization. Portfolio mortgage insurance serves as an important source of credit enhancement for the Australian securitization market, and our portfolio credit enhancement coverage generally is purchased for low loan to value, seasoned loans written by APRA regulated institutions. To date, a market for these portfolio credit enhancement policies has not developed in New Zealand to the same extent as in Australia. Competition The Australian and New Zealand flow mortgage insurance markets are primarily served by one other private LMI company, as well as various lender affiliated captive mortgage insurance companies. We compete primarily based upon our reputation for high quality customer service, quick decision making on insurance applications, strong underwriting expertise and flexibility in terms of product development and provision of support services. Europe and other international We began our European operations in the U.K., which is Europes largest market for mortgage loan originations and over time have expanded our presence to seven additional countries while reducing activities in the U.K. as a result of lenders self insuring. In 2009, we were a leading private mortgage insurance provider in Europe, based upon flow new insurance written. We also have a presence in the developing private mortgage insurance market in Mexico and selectively assess other markets. Products Our mortgage insurance products in Europe consist principally of primary flow insurance structured with single premium payments. Our primary flow insurance generally provides first loss coverage in the event of default on a portion (typically 10% to 20%) of the balance of an individual mortgage loan. We also offer portfolio credit enhancement to lenders that have originated loans for securitization. 18 Table of Contents Competition Our competition in Europe includes both public and private entities, including traditional insurance companies, as well as providers of alternative credit enhancement products and public mortgage guarantee facilities. Competition from alternative credit enhancement products include personal guarantees on high loan to value loans, second mortgages and bank guarantees, captive insurance companies organized by lenders, and alternative forms of risk transfer including capital markets solutions. We believe that our global expertise and coverage flexibility differentiate us from competitors and alternative products. International mortgage insurance underwriting and pricing Loan applications for all loans we insure are reviewed to evaluate each individual borrowers credit strength and history, the characteristics of the loan and the value of the underlying property. Loan applications for flow mortgage insurance are reviewed by our employees or by employees of mortgage lender customers who underwrite loan applications for mortgage insurance under a delegated underwriting program. This delegated underwriting program permits approved lenders to commit us to insure loans using underwriting guidelines we have previously approved. When underwriting bulk insurance transactions, we evaluate characteristics of the loans in the portfolio and examine loan files on a sample basis. Each bulk transaction is assigned an overall claim rate based on a weighted average of the expected claim rates for each individual loan that comprises the transaction. During 2009, we took additional actions to reduce our new business risk profile, which included: tightening underwriting guidelines, including product restrictions, reducing new business in geographic areas we believe are more economically sensitive, and terminating commercial relationships as a result of weaker business performance. We have also increased prices in certain markets based on periodic reviews of product performance. We believe these underwriting and pricing actions will improve our underwriting performance on new books of business, although to date, these actions have reduced the levels of new insurance written. International mortgage insurance distribution We maintain a dedicated sales force that markets our mortgage insurance products internationally to lenders. As in the U.S. market, our sales force markets to financial institutions and mortgage originators, who in turn offer mortgage insurance products to borrowers. Lifestyle protection insurance We currently provide lifestyle protection insurance to consumers in more than 20 countries offered principally by financial services companies at the point of sale of consumer products. We expect to selectively expand our lifestyle protection insurance business in new markets and by further penetration of existing distribution relationships and introduction of new products. In Europe, we are a leading provider of lifestyle protection insurance. Products and services Our lifestyle protection insurance products include protection from illness, accident, involuntary unemployment, disability and death. The benefits on these policies pay the periodic payments on a consumer loan or other form of committed payment for a limited period of time, typically twelve months, though they can be up to 84 months. In some cases, for certain coverages, we may make lump sum payments. Our policies include an exclusion period that is usually 60 days and a waiting period (time between claim submission and claim payment) of typically 30 days. Our policies either require an upfront single premium or monthly premiums. We also provide third party administrative services and administer non risk premium with some relationships in Europe. Additionally, we have entered into structured portfolio transactions, covering Canadian and European risk. 19 Table of Contents Underwriting and pricing Our lifestyle protection insurance products are currently underwritten and priced on a program basis, by type of product and by distributor, rather than on an individual policyholder basis. In setting prices, we take into account the underlying obligation, the particular product features and the average customer profile of the distributor. For our monthly premium policies, most contracts allow for monthly price adjustments after consultation with our distribution partners which help us to reduce our business risk profile when there are adverse changes in the market. Additionally, certain of our distribution contracts provide for profit or loss sharing with our distribution partners, which provide our business and our distribution partners with risk protection and aligned economic interests over the life of the contract. We believe our experience in underwriting allows us to provide competitive pricing to distributors and generate targeted returns and profits for our business. Distribution We distribute our lifestyle protection insurance products primarily through financial institutions, including major European banks that offer our insurance products in connection with underlying loans or other financial products they sell to their customers. Under these arrangements, the distributors typically take responsibility for branding and marketing the products, while we take responsibility for pricing, underwriting and claims payment. We continue to implement innovative methods for distributing our lifestyle protection insurance products, including web based tools that provide our distributors with a cost effective means of applying our products to a broad range of underlying financial obligations. We believe these innovative methods also make it easier to establish arrangements with new distributors, as well as help us further diversify our distribution and geographical channels in an increasingly changing environment. Competition The lifestyle protection insurance market has several large, highly rated international participants. We compete through our commitment to high service levels, depth of expertise in providing tailored product and service solutions and our ability to service global clients at a local level and in multiple countries, if appropriate. U.S. Mortgage Insurance Through our U.S. Mortgage Insurance segment, we provide private mortgage insurance. Private mortgage insurance enables borrowers to buy homes with low down payment mortgages, which are usually defined as loans with a down payment of less than 20% of the homes value. Low down payment mortgages are sometimes also referred to as high loan to value mortgages. Mortgage insurance protects lenders against loss in the event of a borrowers default. It also generally aids financial institutions in managing their capital efficiently by reducing the capital required for low down payment mortgages. If a borrower defaults on mortgage payments, private mortgage insurance reduces and may eliminate losses to the insured institution. Private mortgage insurance may also facilitate the sale of mortgage loans in the secondary mortgage market. We have been providing mortgage insurance products and services in the U.S. since 1981 and operate in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Our principal mortgage insurance customers are originators of residential mortgage loans who typically determine which mortgage insurer or insurers they will use for the placement of mortgage insurance written on loans they originate. The U.S. private mortgage insurance industry is defined in part by the requirements and practices of Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae), Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac) and other large mortgage investors. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac purchase residential mortgages from mortgage lenders and investors, as part of their governmental mandate to provide liquidity in the secondary mortgage market. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac purchased approximately 70% for the year ended December 31, 2009 and approximately 60% and 44% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, of all the mortgage 20 Table of Contents loans originated in the U.S., according to statistics published by Inside Mortgage Finance. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are government sponsored enterprises, and we refer to them as the GSEs. Fannie Maes and Freddie Macs mortgage insurance requirements include specified insurance coverage levels and minimum financial strength ratings. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac typically require maintenance of a rating by at least two out of three listed rating agencies (S&P, Fitch and Moodys) of at least AA /Aa3 (as applicable), with no rating below those levels by any of the three listed rating agencies; otherwise, additional limitations or requirements may be imposed for eligibility to insure loans purchased by the GSEs. In February 2008, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac temporarily suspended automatic imposition of the additional requirements otherwise applicable upon a ratings downgrade below the above described requirements, subject to certain specified conditions. In 2009, we held ongoing discussions with the GSEs regarding these requirements. See Financial Strength Ratings for a complete description of our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries current ratings. The GSEs may purchase mortgages with unpaid principal amounts up to a specified maximum, or the conforming loan limit, which is currently $417,000 and subject to annual adjustment. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 permits the GSEs to purchase loans in excess of the $417,000 limit in certain high cost areas of the country. For 2009, the limit in those areas is 125% of median home price for the area, but no more than $729,750. Each GSEs Congressional charter generally prohibits it from purchasing a mortgage where the loan to value ratio exceeds 80% of home value unless the portion of the unpaid principal balance of the mortgage, which is in excess of 80% of the value of the property securing the mortgage, is protected against default by lender recourse, participation or by a qualified insurer. As a result, high loan to value mortgages purchased by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac generally are insured with private mortgage insurance. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac purchased the majority of the flow loans we insured as of December 31, 2009. The following table sets forth selected financial information regarding our U.S. Mortgage Insurance segment as of or for the periods indicated. Additional selected financial information and operating performance measures regarding our U.S. Mortgage Insurance segment as of or for these periods are included under Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations U.S. Mortgage Insurance. As of or for the years endedDecember 31, (Amounts in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Total revenues $ 826 $ 851 $ 805 Net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders $ (459 ) $ (330 ) $ 167 Net investment gains (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments 32 (38 ) 4 Net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders $ (427 ) $ (368 ) $ 171 Total segment assets $ 4,247 $ 3,978 $ 3,286 Products and services The majority of our U.S. mortgage insurance policies provide default loss protection on a portion (typically 10% to 40%) of the balance of an individual mortgage loan. Our primary mortgage insurance policies are predominantly flow insurance policies, which cover individual loans at the time the loan is originated. We also enter into bulk insurance transactions with lenders and investors in selected instances, under which we insure a portfolio of loans for a negotiated price. In addition to flow and bulk primary mortgage insurance, we have written a limited amount of mortgage insurance on a pool basis. Under pool insurance, the mortgage insurer provides coverage on a group of specified loans, typically for 100% of all losses on every loan in the portfolio, subject to an agreed aggregate loss limit. 21 Table of Contents Flow insurance Flow insurance is primary mortgage insurance placed on an individual loan when the loan is originated. Our primary mortgage insurance covers default risk on first mortgage loans generally secured by one to four unit residential properties and can be used to protect mortgage lenders and investors from default on any type of residential mortgage loan instrument that we have approved. Our insurance covers a specified coverage percentage of a claim amount consisting of unpaid loan principal, delinquent interest and certain expenses associated with the default and subsequent foreclosure. As the insurer, we are generally required to pay the coverage percentage of a claim amount specified in the primary policy, but we also have the option to pay the lender an amount equal to the unpaid loan principal, delinquent interest and certain expenses incurred with the default and foreclosure, and acquire title to the property. In addition, the claim amount may be reduced or eliminated if the loss on the defaulted loan is reduced as a result of the lenders disposition of the property. The lender selects the coverage percentage at the time the loan is originated, often to comply with investor requirements to reduce the loss exposure on loans purchased by the investor. Our master policies require that loans be underwritten to approved guidelines and provide for cancellation of coverage and return of premium for material breach of obligations. Our master policies generally do not extend to or cover material breach of obligations and misrepresentations known to the insured or specified agents. From time to time, based on various factors, we request loan files to verify compliance with our master policies and required procedures. Where our review and any related investigation establish material noncompliance or misrepresentation or there is a failure to deliver complete loan files as required, we rescind coverage with a return of all premiums paid. In connection with flow insurance, we perform fee based contract underwriting services for mortgage lenders. The provision of underwriting services by mortgage insurers eliminates the duplicative lender and mortgage insurer underwriting activities and speeds the approval process. Under the terms of our contract underwriting agreements, we agree to indemnify the lender against losses incurred in the event we make material errors in determining whether loans processed by our contract underwriters meet specified underwriting or purchase criteria, subject to contractual limitations on liability. In the U.S., we have entered into a number of reinsurance agreements in which we share portions of our flow mortgage insurance risk written on loans originated or purchased by lenders with captive reinsurance companies, or captive reinsurers, affiliated with these lenders. In return, we cede a predetermined portion of our gross premiums on insurance written to the captive reinsurers. Substantially all of our captive mortgage reinsurance arrangements are structured on an excess of loss basis. In February 2008, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac announced a change to its eligibility rules limiting captive reinsurance arrangements to those where premiums ceded do not exceed 25%. As of December 31, 2009, our total mortgage insurance risk in force reinsured to all captive reinsurers was $2.9 billion, and the total capital held in trust for our benefit by all captive reinsurers was $1.2 billion. These captive reinsurers are not rated, and their claims paying obligations to us are secured by an amount of capital held in trust as determined by the underlying treaties. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we recorded a reinsurance recoverable of $673 million and $505 million, respectively, under these captive reinsurance arrangements. We have exhausted certain captive reinsurance tiers for our 2005, 2006 and 2007 book years based on worsening loss development trends. Once the captive reinsurance or trust assets are exhausted, we are responsible for any additional losses incurred. We have begun to experience constraints on the recognition of captive benefit recovery due to the amount of funds held in certain captive trusts and the exhaustion of captive loss tiers for certain reinsurers. As of January 1, 2009, we no longer participate in excess of loss captive reinsurance transactions and we will only participate in quota share reinsurance arrangements. The majority of our excess of loss captive reinsurance arrangements are in runoff with no new books of business being added going forward; however, we will continue to benefit from captive reinsurance on our 2005, 2006 and 2007 books of business. New insurance written through the bulk channel generally is not subject to these arrangements. 22 Table of Contents The following table sets forth selected financial information regarding our captive reinsurance arrangements as of or for the periods indicated: As of or for the years endedDecember 31, 2009 2008 2007 Flow risk in force subject to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of flow risk in force 51 % 55 % 63 % Primary risk in force subject to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of total primary risk in force 50 % 53 % 60 % Gross written premiums ceded pursuant to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of total gross written premiums 21 % 20 % 22 % Primary new risk written subject to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of total primary new risk written 3 % 33 % 56 % Bulk insurance Under primary bulk insurance, we insure a portfolio of loans in a single, bulk transaction. Generally, in our bulk insurance, the individual loans in the portfolio are insured to specified levels of coverage and there may be deductible provisions and aggregate loss limits applicable to all of the insured loans. In addition, loans that we insure in bulk transactions with loan to value ratios above 80% typically have flow mortgage insurance, written either by us or another private mortgage insurer, which helps mitigate our exposure under these transactions. We base the premium on our bulk insurance upon our evaluation of the overall risk of the insured loans included in a transaction and we negotiate the premium directly with the securitizer or other owner of the loans. Premiums for bulk transactions generally are paid monthly by lenders, investors or a securitization vehicle in connection with a securitization transaction or the sale of a loan portfolio. Prior to 2006, the majority of our bulk insurance business was related to loans financed by lenders who participated in the mortgage programs sponsored by the Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLBs). Beginning in 2006, we selectively increased our participation in the GSE low documentation, or Alt A, programs and began to provide bulk insurance on lender portfolios, a substantial portion of which was comprised of low loan to value and high Fair Isaac Company (FICO) score payment option adjustable rate (POA) loans. The risk in force attributable to these newer books of business was substantially reduced in 2009 pursuant to agreements reached with the insured. In addition, in January 2010, we reached an agreement with a counterparty that reduces our bulk insurance exposure, leaving a small portfolio related principally to the FHLBs. Pool insurance Pool insurance generally covers the loss on a defaulted mortgage loan that either exceeds the claim payment under the primary coverage (if primary insurance is required on that loan) or the total loss (if that loan does not require primary insurance), in each case up to a stated aggregate loss limit on the pool. While in 2006 and 2005, we wrote a limited amount of pool insurance coverage policies, we are no longer actively writing pool insurance. Underwriting, pricing and loss mitigation Loan applications for all loans we insure are reviewed to evaluate each individual borrowers credit strength and history, the characteristics of the loan and the value of the underlying property. Fair Isaac Company developed the FICO credit scoring model to calculate a score based upon a borrowers credit history. We use the FICO credit score as one indicator of a borrowers credit quality. Typically, a borrower with a higher credit score has a lower likelihood of defaulting on a loan. FICO credit scores range up to 850, with a score of 620 or more generally viewed as a prime loan and a score below 620 generally viewed as a sub prime loan. A minus loans generally are loans where the borrowers have FICO credit scores between 575 and 660, and where the borrower has a blemished credit history. As of December 31, 2009, on a risk in force basis, approximately 92% of our primary insurance loans had FICO credit scores of at least 620, approximately 23 Table of Contents 6% had FICO credit scores between 575 and 619, and approximately 2% had FICO credit scores of 574 or less. Loan applications for flow mortgage insurance are reviewed by our employees directly as part of our traditional underwriting process or by our contract underwriters as we process mortgage loan applications requiring mortgage insurance. The majority of our mortgage lender customers underwrite loan applications for mortgage insurance under a delegated underwriting program, in which we permit approved lenders to commit us to insure loans using underwriting guidelines we have previously approved. When underwriting bulk insurance transactions, we evaluate credit scores and loan characteristics of the loans in the portfolio and examine loan files on a sample basis. Each bulk transaction is assigned an overall claim rate based on a weighted average of the expected claim rates for each individual loan that comprises the transaction. We formerly offered mortgage insurance for Alt A loans, which were originated under programs in which there was a reduced level of verification or disclosure of the borrowers income or assets and a higher historical and expected default rate than standard documentation loans; Interest Only loans which allowed the borrower flexibility to pay interest only, or to pay interest and as much principal as desired, during an initial period of time; and POA mortgages, which typically provided four payment options that a borrower could select for the first five years of a loan. Beginning in the second half of 2007 and through 2009, however, we took specific and substantial underwriting and risk management actions to reduce our new business risk profile, including exiting certain products and types of coverages, as well as changing prices, product levels and underwriting guidelines, to improve the performance of new business written. Our primary guideline actions during the fourth quarter of 2008 included adding incremental geographic locations to our declining market policy definition and changes in third party loan origination guidelines, including restrictions on delegated underwriting guidelines, as well as imposing tighter underwriting guidelines on lower credit and higher loan to value risks. Additionally, with increased refinancing activity, we also added new restrictions on FICO and debt to income ratios to better manage our capital consumption from new production. We believe these underwriting and pricing actions will continue to improve our underwriting results on these and future books of business under the anticipated economic and housing market environment, and may have an impact on our volume of new insurance written. We continue to monitor current housing conditions and the performance of our books of business to determine if we need to make further changes in our underwriting guidelines and practices. For example, we recently reduced the number of markets subject to our declining market policy to allow coverage of loans up to 95% loan to value in additional markets given improving housing market conditions. Loss mitigation activities for our U.S. mortgage insurance business include rescissions, cancellations, borrower loan modifications, repayment plans, lender and borrower titled presales and other loan workouts and claim mitigation actions. As delinquencies increased and in response to the high incidence of fraud and misrepresentation that we uncovered in loans that we insure, we deployed additional resources to assess potential noncompliance or misrepresentation. During 2009, we rescinded coverage on nearly 22,000 loans. We take into consideration lender appeals of rescission actions and may reinstate coverage in some instances. We have also initiated efforts to assist delinquent borrowers in modifying their mortgage loans into more affordable instruments, thus forestalling foreclosures and claim activities and curing loan defaults or reducing the risk of default. Distribution We distribute our mortgage insurance products through our dedicated sales force throughout the U.S. This sales force primarily markets to financial institutions and mortgage originators, which in turn offer mortgage insurance products to borrowers. In addition to our field sales force, we also distribute our products through a telephone sales force serving our smaller lenders, as well as through our Action Center which provides live phone and web chat based support for all customer segments. 24 Table of Contents Competition We compete primarily with U.S. and state government agencies, other private mortgage insurers, mortgage lenders and other investors, the GSEs and, potentially, the FHLBs. We also compete, indirectly, with structured transactions in the capital markets and with other financial instruments designed to mitigate credit risk although this last category of competition has been reduced by the dynamics of the financial crisis. U.S. and state government agencies. We and other private mortgage insurers compete for flow business directly with U.S. federal and state governmental and quasi governmental agencies, principally the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and, to a lesser degree, the Veterans Administration (VA). In addition to competition from the FHA and the VA, we and other private mortgage insurers face competition from state supported mortgage insurance funds in several states, including California, Illinois and New York. Private mortgage insurers. The private mortgage insurance industry is highly competitive and currently consists of eight mortgage insurers, excluding us. Mortgage lenders and other investors. We and other mortgage insurers compete with transactions structured by mortgage lenders to avoid mortgage insurance on low down payment mortgage loans. These transactions include self insuring and simultaneous second loans, which separate a mortgage with a loan to value ratio of more than 80%, which generally would require mortgage insurance, into two loans: a first mortgage with a loan to value ratio of 80% and a simultaneous second mortgage for the excess portion of the loan. The level of simultaneous second mortgages has declined in 2009. The GSEs Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and FHLBs. As the predominant purchasers of conventional mortgage loans in the U.S., Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac provide a direct link between mortgage origination and capital markets. As discussed above, most high loan to value mortgages purchased by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac are insured with private mortgage insurance issued by an insurer deemed qualified by the GSEs. Our U.S. mortgage insurance companies are qualified insurers with both GSEs. Private mortgage insurers may be subject to competition from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to the extent the GSEs are compensated for assuming default risk that would otherwise be insured by the private mortgage insurance industry. We also compete with structured transactions in the capital markets and with other financial instruments designed to mitigate the risk of mortgage defaults, such as credit default swaps and credit linked notes, with lenders who forego mortgage insurance (self insure) on loans held in their portfolios, and with mortgage lenders who maintain captive mortgage insurance and reinsurance programs. Private mortgage insurers must satisfy requirements set by the GSEs to be eligible to insure loans sold to the GSEs, and the GSEs have the ability to implement new eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers. They also have the authority to change the pricing arrangements for purchasing retained participation mortgages as compared to insured mortgages, increase or reduce required mortgage insurance coverage percentages, and alter or liberalize underwriting standards and pricing terms on low down payment mortgages they purchase. In addition to the GSEs, FHLBs purchase single family conforming mortgage loans. Although not required to do so, the FHLBs currently use mortgage insurance on substantially all mortgage loans with a loan to value ratio above 80%. Corporate and Other Our Corporate and Other activities include debt financing expenses that are incurred at our holding company level, unallocated corporate income and expenses, eliminations of inter segment transactions, the results of non core businesses and non strategic products that are managed outside our operating segments and our group 25 Table of Contents life and health insurance business, which we sold in May 2007 and was accounted for as discontinued operations. In December 2009, we began reporting our institutional and corporate owned life insurance products, previously included in our Retirement and Protection segment, in Corporate and Other activities, as they were deemed non strategic. The corporate owned life insurance product was previously included in our long term care insurance business in our Retirement and Protection segment. In January 2009, we also began reporting our equity access business in our long term care insurance business included in our Retirement and Protection segment. Our equity access business includes our wholly owned subsidiary that originates reverse mortgage loans, and was previously reported in Corporate and Other activities. Our institutional products consist of funding agreements, FABNs and GICs, which are deposit type products that pay a guaranteed return to the contractholder on specified dates. We manage the outstanding issuances from two FABN programs: a program registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) offered both to institutional and retail investors and a global medium term notes (GMTN) program sold to institutional investors both domestically and abroad. The registered notes program was discontinued in May 2009 and all SEC reporting obligations under the registered notes program were suspended. We had no new institutional sales in 2009 and are pursuing the issuance of our institutional products on an opportunistic basis in the current market environment. Discontinued Operations On May 31, 2007, we completed the sale of our group life and health insurance business for gross cash proceeds of approximately $660 million. Accordingly, the business was accounted for as discontinued operations and its results of operations, financial position and cash flows were separately reported for all periods presented. The sale resulted in a gain on sale of discontinued operations of $51 million, net of taxes. International Operations Information regarding our international operations is presented in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations U.S. Mortgage Insurance. As of or for the years endedDecember 31, (Amounts in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Total revenues $ 826 $ 851 $ 805 Net operating income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders $ (459 ) $ (330 ) $ 167 Net investment gains (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments 32 (38 ) 4 Net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders $ (427 ) $ (368 ) $ 171 Total segment assets $ 4,247 $ 3,978 $ 3,286 Products and services The majority of our U.S. mortgage insurance policies provide default loss protection on a portion (typically 10% to 40%) of the balance of an individual mortgage loan. Our primary mortgage insurance policies are predominantly flow insurance policies, which cover individual loans at the time the loan is originated. We also enter into bulk insurance transactions with lenders and investors in selected instances, under which we insure a portfolio of loans for a negotiated price. In addition to flow and bulk primary mortgage insurance, we have written a limited amount of mortgage insurance on a pool basis. Under pool insurance, the mortgage insurer provides coverage on a group of specified loans, typically for 100% of all losses on every loan in the portfolio, subject to an agreed aggregate loss limit. 21 Table of Contents Flow insurance Flow insurance is primary mortgage insurance placed on an individual loan when the loan is originated. Our primary mortgage insurance covers default risk on first mortgage loans generally secured by one to four unit residential properties and can be used to protect mortgage lenders and investors from default on any type of residential mortgage loan instrument that we have approved. Our insurance covers a specified coverage percentage of a claim amount consisting of unpaid loan principal, delinquent interest and certain expenses associated with the default and subsequent foreclosure. As the insurer, we are generally required to pay the coverage percentage of a claim amount specified in the primary policy, but we also have the option to pay the lender an amount equal to the unpaid loan principal, delinquent interest and certain expenses incurred with the default and foreclosure, and acquire title to the property. In addition, the claim amount may be reduced or eliminated if the loss on the defaulted loan is reduced as a result of the lenders disposition of the property. The lender selects the coverage percentage at the time the loan is originated, often to comply with investor requirements to reduce the loss exposure on loans purchased by the investor. Our master policies require that loans be underwritten to approved guidelines and provide for cancellation of coverage and return of premium for material breach of obligations. Our master policies generally do not extend to or cover material breach of obligations and misrepresentations known to the insured or specified agents. From time to time, based on various factors, we request loan files to verify compliance with our master policies and required procedures. Where our review and any related investigation establish material noncompliance or misrepresentation or there is a failure to deliver complete loan files as required, we rescind coverage with a return of all premiums paid. In connection with flow insurance, we perform fee based contract underwriting services for mortgage lenders. The provision of underwriting services by mortgage insurers eliminates the duplicative lender and mortgage insurer underwriting activities and speeds the approval process. Under the terms of our contract underwriting agreements, we agree to indemnify the lender against losses incurred in the event we make material errors in determining whether loans processed by our contract underwriters meet specified underwriting or purchase criteria, subject to contractual limitations on liability. In the U.S., we have entered into a number of reinsurance agreements in which we share portions of our flow mortgage insurance risk written on loans originated or purchased by lenders with captive reinsurance companies, or captive reinsurers, affiliated with these lenders. In return, we cede a predetermined portion of our gross premiums on insurance written to the captive reinsurers. Substantially all of our captive mortgage reinsurance arrangements are structured on an excess of loss basis. In February 2008, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac announced a change to its eligibility rules limiting captive reinsurance arrangements to those where premiums ceded do not exceed 25%. As of December 31, 2009, our total mortgage insurance risk in force reinsured to all captive reinsurers was $2.9 billion, and the total capital held in trust for our benefit by all captive reinsurers was $1.2 billion. These captive reinsurers are not rated, and their claims paying obligations to us are secured by an amount of capital held in trust as determined by the underlying treaties. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we recorded a reinsurance recoverable of $673 million and $505 million, respectively, under these captive reinsurance arrangements. We have exhausted certain captive reinsurance tiers for our 2005, 2006 and 2007 book years based on worsening loss development trends. Once the captive reinsurance or trust assets are exhausted, we are responsible for any additional losses incurred. We have begun to experience constraints on the recognition of captive benefit recovery due to the amount of funds held in certain captive trusts and the exhaustion of captive loss tiers for certain reinsurers. As of January 1, 2009, we no longer participate in excess of loss captive reinsurance transactions and we will only participate in quota share reinsurance arrangements. The majority of our excess of loss captive reinsurance arrangements are in runoff with no new books of business being added going forward; however, we will continue to benefit from captive reinsurance on our 2005, 2006 and 2007 books of business. New insurance written through the bulk channel generally is not subject to these arrangements. 22 Table of Contents The following table sets forth selected financial information regarding our captive reinsurance arrangements as of or for the periods indicated: As of or for the years endedDecember 31, 2009 2008 2007 Flow risk in force subject to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of flow risk in force 51 % 55 % 63 % Primary risk in force subject to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of total primary risk in force 50 % 53 % 60 % Gross written premiums ceded pursuant to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of total gross written premiums 21 % 20 % 22 % Primary new risk written subject to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of total primary new risk written 3 % 33 % 56 % Bulk insurance Under primary bulk insurance, we insure a portfolio of loans in a single, bulk transaction. Generally, in our bulk insurance, the individual loans in the portfolio are insured to specified levels of coverage and there may be deductible provisions and aggregate loss limits applicable to all of the insured loans. In addition, loans that we insure in bulk transactions with loan to value ratios above 80% typically have flow mortgage insurance, written either by us or another private mortgage insurer, which helps mitigate our exposure under these transactions. We base the premium on our bulk insurance upon our evaluation of the overall risk of the insured loans included in a transaction and we negotiate the premium directly with the securitizer or other owner of the loans. Premiums for bulk transactions generally are paid monthly by lenders, investors or a securitization vehicle in connection with a securitization transaction or the sale of a loan portfolio. Prior to 2006, the majority of our bulk insurance business was related to loans financed by lenders who participated in the mortgage programs sponsored by the Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLBs). Beginning in 2006, we selectively increased our participation in the GSE low documentation, or Alt A, programs and began to provide bulk insurance on lender portfolios, a substantial portion of which was comprised of low loan to value and high Fair Isaac Company (FICO) score payment option adjustable rate (POA) loans. The risk in force attributable to these newer books of business was substantially reduced in 2009 pursuant to agreements reached with the insured. In addition, in January 2010, we reached an agreement with a counterparty that reduces our bulk insurance exposure, leaving a small portfolio related principally to the FHLBs. Pool insurance Pool insurance generally covers the loss on a defaulted mortgage loan that either exceeds the claim payment under the primary coverage (if primary insurance is required on that loan) or the total loss (if that loan does not require primary insurance), in each case up to a stated aggregate loss limit on the pool. While in 2006 and 2005, we wrote a limited amount of pool insurance coverage policies, we are no longer actively writing pool insurance. Underwriting, pricing and loss mitigation Loan applications for all loans we insure are reviewed to evaluate each individual borrowers credit strength and history, the characteristics of the loan and the value of the underlying property. Fair Isaac Company developed the FICO credit scoring model to calculate a score based upon a borrowers credit history. We use the FICO credit score as one indicator of a borrowers credit quality. Typically, a borrower with a higher credit score has a lower likelihood of defaulting on a loan. FICO credit scores range up to 850, with a score of 620 or more generally viewed as a prime loan and a score below 620 generally viewed as a sub prime loan. A minus loans generally are loans where the borrowers have FICO credit scores between 575 and 660, and where the borrower has a blemished credit history. As of December 31, 2009, on a risk in force basis, approximately 92% of our primary insurance loans had FICO credit scores of at least 620, approximately 23 Table of Contents 6% had FICO credit scores between 575 and 619, and approximately 2% had FICO credit scores of 574 or less. Loan applications for flow mortgage insurance are reviewed by our employees directly as part of our traditional underwriting process or by our contract underwriters as we process mortgage loan applications requiring mortgage insurance. The majority of our mortgage lender customers underwrite loan applications for mortgage insurance under a delegated underwriting program, in which we permit approved lenders to commit us to insure loans using underwriting guidelines we have previously approved. When underwriting bulk insurance transactions, we evaluate credit scores and loan characteristics of the loans in the portfolio and examine loan files on a sample basis. Each bulk transaction is assigned an overall claim rate based on a weighted average of the expected claim rates for each individual loan that comprises the transaction. We formerly offered mortgage insurance for Alt A loans, which were originated under programs in which there was a reduced level of verification or disclosure of the borrowers income or assets and a higher historical and expected default rate than standard documentation loans; Interest Only loans which allowed the borrower flexibility to pay interest only, or to pay interest and as much principal as desired, during an initial period of time; and POA mortgages, which typically provided four payment options that a borrower could select for the first five years of a loan. Beginning in the second half of 2007 and through 2009, however, we took specific and substantial underwriting and risk management actions to reduce our new business risk profile, including exiting certain products and types of coverages, as well as changing prices, product levels and underwriting guidelines, to improve the performance of new business written. Our primary guideline actions during the fourth quarter of 2008 included adding incremental geographic locations to our declining market policy definition and changes in third party loan origination guidelines, including restrictions on delegated underwriting guidelines, as well as imposing tighter underwriting guidelines on lower credit and higher loan to value risks. Additionally, with increased refinancing activity, we also added new restrictions on FICO and debt to income ratios to better manage our capital consumption from new production. We believe these underwriting and pricing actions will continue to improve our underwriting results on these and future books of business under the anticipated economic and housing market environment, and may have an impact on our volume of new insurance written. We continue to monitor current housing conditions and the performance of our books of business to determine if we need to make further changes in our underwriting guidelines and practices. For example, we recently reduced the number of markets subject to our declining market policy to allow coverage of loans up to 95% loan to value in additional markets given improving housing market conditions. Loss mitigation activities for our U.S. mortgage insurance business include rescissions, cancellations, borrower loan modifications, repayment plans, lender and borrower titled presales and other loan workouts and claim mitigation actions. As delinquencies increased and in response to the high incidence of fraud and misrepresentation that we uncovered in loans that we insure, we deployed additional resources to assess potential noncompliance or misrepresentation. During 2009, we rescinded coverage on nearly 22,000 loans. We take into consideration lender appeals of rescission actions and may reinstate coverage in some instances. We have also initiated efforts to assist delinquent borrowers in modifying their mortgage loans into more affordable instruments, thus forestalling foreclosures and claim activities and curing loan defaults or reducing the risk of default. Distribution We distribute our mortgage insurance products through our dedicated sales force throughout the U.S. This sales force primarily markets to financial institutions and mortgage originators, which in turn offer mortgage insurance products to borrowers. In addition to our field sales force, we also distribute our products through a telephone sales force serving our smaller lenders, as well as through our Action Center which provides live phone and web chat based support for all customer segments. 24 Table of Contents Competition We compete primarily with U.S. and state government agencies, other private mortgage insurers, mortgage lenders and other investors, the GSEs and, potentially, the FHLBs. We also compete, indirectly, with structured transactions in the capital markets and with other financial instruments designed to mitigate credit risk although this last category of competition has been reduced by the dynamics of the financial crisis. U.S. and state government agencies. We and other private mortgage insurers compete for flow business directly with U.S. federal and state governmental and quasi governmental agencies, principally the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and, to a lesser degree, the Veterans Administration (VA). In addition to competition from the FHA and the VA, we and other private mortgage insurers face competition from state supported mortgage insurance funds in several states, including California, Illinois and New York. Private mortgage insurers. The private mortgage insurance industry is highly competitive and currently consists of eight mortgage insurers, excluding us. Mortgage lenders and other investors. We and other mortgage insurers compete with transactions structured by mortgage lenders to avoid mortgage insurance on low down payment mortgage loans. These transactions include self insuring and simultaneous second loans, which separate a mortgage with a loan to value ratio of more than 80%, which generally would require mortgage insurance, into two loans: a first mortgage with a loan to value ratio of 80% and a simultaneous second mortgage for the excess portion of the loan. The level of simultaneous second mortgages has declined in 2009. The GSEs Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and FHLBs. As the predominant purchasers of conventional mortgage loans in the U.S., Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac provide a direct link between mortgage origination and capital markets. As discussed above, most high loan to value mortgages purchased by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac are insured with private mortgage insurance issued by an insurer deemed qualified by the GSEs. Our U.S. mortgage insurance companies are qualified insurers with both GSEs. Private mortgage insurers may be subject to competition from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to the extent the GSEs are compensated for assuming default risk that would otherwise be insured by the private mortgage insurance industry. We also compete with structured transactions in the capital markets and with other financial instruments designed to mitigate the risk of mortgage defaults, such as credit default swaps and credit linked notes, with lenders who forego mortgage insurance (self insure) on loans held in their portfolios, and with mortgage lenders who maintain captive mortgage insurance and reinsurance programs. Private mortgage insurers must satisfy requirements set by the GSEs to be eligible to insure loans sold to the GSEs, and the GSEs have the ability to implement new eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers. They also have the authority to change the pricing arrangements for purchasing retained participation mortgages as compared to insured mortgages, increase or reduce required mortgage insurance coverage percentages, and alter or liberalize underwriting standards and pricing terms on low down payment mortgages they purchase. In addition to the GSEs, FHLBs purchase single family conforming mortgage loans. Although not required to do so, the FHLBs currently use mortgage insurance on substantially all mortgage loans with a loan to value ratio above 80%. Corporate and Other Our Corporate and Other activities include debt financing expenses that are incurred at our holding company level, unallocated corporate income and expenses, eliminations of inter segment transactions, the results of non core businesses and non strategic products that are managed outside our operating segments and our group 25 Table of Contents life and health insurance business, which we sold in May 2007 and was accounted for as discontinued operations. In December 2009, we began reporting our institutional and corporate owned life insurance products, previously included in our Retirement and Protection segment, in Corporate and Other activities, as they were deemed non strategic. The corporate owned life insurance product was previously included in our long term care insurance business in our Retirement and Protection segment. In January 2009, we also began reporting our equity access business in our long term care insurance business included in our Retirement and Protection segment. Our equity access business includes our wholly owned subsidiary that originates reverse mortgage loans, and was previously reported in Corporate and Other activities. Our institutional products consist of funding agreements, FABNs and GICs, which are deposit type products that pay a guaranteed return to the contractholder on specified dates. We manage the outstanding issuances from two FABN programs: a program registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) offered both to institutional and retail investors and a global medium term notes (GMTN) program sold to institutional investors both domestically and abroad. The registered notes program was discontinued in May 2009 and all SEC reporting obligations under the registered notes program were suspended. We had no new institutional sales in 2009 and are pursuing the issuance of our institutional products on an opportunistic basis in the current market environment. Discontinued Operations On May 31, 2007, we completed the sale of our group life and health insurance business for gross cash proceeds of approximately $660 million. Accordingly, the business was accounted for as discontinued operations and its results of operations, financial position and cash flows were separately reported for all periods presented. The sale resulted in a gain on sale of discontinued operations of $51 million, net of taxes. International Operations Information regarding our international operations is presented in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Investment and Derivative Instruments. Regulation Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and supervision. General Our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations. State insurance laws and regulations (Insurance Laws) regulate most aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and our U.S. insurers are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled and licensed. Our non U.S. insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled. Our insurance products, and thus our businesses, also are affected by U.S. federal, state and local tax laws, and the tax laws of non U.S. jurisdictions. Insurance products that constitute securities, such as variable annuities and variable life insurance, also are subject to U.S. federal and state and non U.S. securities laws and regulations. The SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), state securities authorities and non U.S. authorities regulate and supervise these products. Our securities operations, including our insurance products that are regulated as securities, are subject to U.S. federal and state and non U.S. securities and related laws. The SEC, state securities authorities, FINRA and similar non U.S. authorities are the principal regulators of these operations. The primary purpose of the Insurance Laws affecting our insurance and securities businesses, and the securities laws affecting our variable annuity products, variable life insurance products, registered FABNs, broker/dealers and advisory businesses, is to protect our policyholders, contractholders and clients, not our stockholders. These Insurance Laws are regularly re examined and any changes to these laws or new laws may be more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. In addition, insurance and securities regulatory authorities (including state law enforcement agencies and attorneys general or their non U.S. equivalents) periodically make inquiries regarding compliance with insurance, securities and other laws and regulations, and we cooperate with such inquiries and take corrective action when warranted. Our distributors and institutional customers also operate in regulated environments. Changes in the regulations that affect their operations may affect our business relationships with them and their decision to distribute or purchase our subsidiaries products. 37 Table of Contents In addition, the Insurance Laws of our U.S. insurers domiciliary jurisdictions and the Insurance Laws in the U.K., Australia, Canada and certain other jurisdictions in which we operate require that a person obtain the approval of the applicable insurance regulator prior to acquiring control of an insurer. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent an investment in or a change of control involving us, or one or more of our regulated subsidiaries, including transactions that our management and some or all of our stockholders might consider desirable. U.S. Insurance Regulation Our U.S. insurers are licensed and regulated in all jurisdictions in which they conduct insurance business. The extent of this regulation varies, but Insurance Laws generally govern the financial condition of insurers, including standards of solvency, types and concentrations of permissible investments, establishment and maintenance of reserves, credit for reinsurance and requirements of capital adequacy, and the business conduct of insurers, including marketing and sales practices and claims handling. In addition, Insurance Laws usually require the licensing of insurers and agents, and the approval of policy forms, related materials and the rates for certain lines of insurance. The Insurance Laws applicable to us or our U.S. insurers are described below. Our U.S. mortgage insurers are also subject to additional insurance laws and regulations applicable specifically to mortgage insurers discussed below under Mortgage Insurance. Insurance holding company regulation All U.S. jurisdictions in which our U.S. insurers conduct business have enacted legislation requiring each U.S. insurer (except captive insurers) in a holding company system to register with the insurance regulatory authority of its domiciliary jurisdiction and furnish that regulatory authority various information concerning the operations of, and the interrelationships and transactions among, companies within its holding company system that may materially affect the operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the system. These Insurance Laws regulate transactions between insurers and their affiliates, sometimes mandating prior notice to the regulator and or regulatory approval. Generally, these Insurance Laws require that all transactions between an insurer and an affiliate be fair and reasonable, and that the insurers statutory surplus following such transaction be reasonable in relation to its outstanding liabilities and adequate to its financial needs. As a holding company with no significant business operations of our own, we depend on dividends or other distributions from our subsidiaries as the principal source of cash to meet our obligations, including the payment of interest on, and repayment of principal of, any debt obligations. Our U.S. insurers payment of dividends or other distributions is regulated by the Insurance Laws of their respective domiciliary states, and insurers may not pay an extraordinary dividend or distribution, or pay a dividend except out of earned surplus, without prior regulatory approval. In general, an extraordinary dividend or distribution is defined as a dividend or distribution that, together with other dividends and distributions made within the preceding 12 months, exceeds the greater (or, in some jurisdictions, the lesser) of: 10% of the insurers statutory surplus as of the immediately prior year end or the statutory net gain from the insurers operations (if a life insurer) or the statutory net income (if not a life insurer) during the prior calendar year. In addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of ordinary dividends or other payments by our insurers (such as a payment under a tax sharing agreement or for employment or other services) if they determine that such payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. The Insurance Laws of our U.S. insurers domiciliary jurisdictions require that a person obtain the approval of the insurance commissioner of an insurers domiciliary jurisdiction prior to acquiring control of such insurer. Control of an insurer is generally presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds 38 Table of Contents with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing, 10% or more of the voting securities of the insurer or its ultimate parent entity. In considering an application to acquire control of an insurer, the insurance commissioner generally considers factors such as the experience, competence and financial strength of the applicant, the integrity of the applicants board of directors and executive officers, the acquirers plans for the management and operation of the insurer, and any anti competitive results that may arise from the acquisition. Some states require a person seeking to acquire control of an insurer licensed but not domiciled in that state to make a filing prior to completing an acquisition if the acquirer and its affiliates and the target insurer and its affiliates have specified market shares in the same lines of insurance in that state. These provisions may not require acquisition approval but can lead to imposition of conditions on an acquisition that could delay or prevent its consummation. Periodic reporting Our U.S. insurers must file reports, including detailed annual financial statements, with insurance regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction in which they do business, and their operations and accounts are subject to periodic examination by such authorities. Policy forms Our U.S. insurers policy forms are subject to regulation in every U.S. jurisdiction in which they transact insurance business. In most U.S. jurisdictions, policy forms must be filed prior to their use, and in some U.S. jurisdictions, forms must be approved prior to use. Market conduct regulation The Insurance Laws of U.S. jurisdictions govern the marketplace activities of insurers, affecting the form and content of disclosure to consumers, product illustrations, advertising, product replacement, sales and underwriting practices, and complaint and claims handling, and these provisions are generally enforced through periodic market conduct examinations. Statutory examinations Insurance departments in U.S. jurisdictions conduct periodic detailed examinations of the books, records, accounts and business practices of domestic insurers. These examinations generally are conducted in cooperation with insurance departments of two or three other states or jurisdictions representing each of the NAIC zones, under guidelines promulgated by the NAIC. In the three year period ended December 31, 2009, we have not received any material adverse findings resulting from any insurance department examinations of our U.S. insurance subsidiaries. Guaranty associations and similar arrangements Most jurisdictions in which our U.S. insurers are licensed require those insurers to participate in guaranty associations which pay contractual benefits owed under the policies of impaired or insolvent insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on each member insurer in a jurisdiction on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by such insurer in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. Some jurisdictions permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. Aggregate assessments levied against our U.S. insurers were not material to our consolidated financial statements. Policy and contract reserve sufficiency analysis The Insurance Laws of their domiciliary jurisdictions require our U.S. life insurers to conduct annual analyses of the sufficiency of their life and health insurance and annuity reserves. Other jurisdictions where 39 Table of Contents insurers are licensed may have certain reserve requirements that differ from those of their domiciliary jurisdictions. In each case, a qualified actuary must submit an opinion stating that the aggregate statutory reserves, when considered in light of the assets held with respect to such reserves, make good and sufficient provision for the insurers associated contractual obligations and related expenses. If such an opinion cannot be provided, the insurer must establish additional reserves by transferring funds from surplus. Our U.S. life insurers submit these opinions annually to their insurance regulatory authorities. Different reserve requirements exist for our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries. See Reserves Mortgage Insurance. Surplus and capital requirements Insurance regulators have the discretionary authority, in connection with maintaining the licensing of our U.S. insurers, to limit or restrict insurers from issuing new policies, or policies having a dollar value over certain thresholds, if, in the regulators judgment, the insurer is not maintaining a sufficient amount of surplus or is in a hazardous financial condition. We seek to maintain new business and capital management strategies to support meeting related regulatory requirements. In addition, we do not believe that the current or anticipated levels of statutory surplus of our U.S. insurers present a material risk that any regulator would limit the types or values of new policies that our U.S. insurers may issue. Risk based capital The NAIC has established Risk Based Capital (RBC) standards for U.S. life insurers, as well as a risk based capital model act (RBC Model Act). All 50 states and the District of Columbia have adopted the RBC Model Act or a substantially similar law or regulation. The RBC Model Act requires that life insurers annually submit a report to state regulators regarding their RBC based upon four categories of risk: asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate and market risk, and business risk. The capital requirement for each is generally determined by applying factors which vary based upon the degree of risk to various asset, premium and reserve items. The formula is an early warning tool to identify possible weakly capitalized companies for purposes of initiating further regulatory action. If an insurers RBC fell below specified levels, it would be subject to different degrees of regulatory action depending upon the level, ranging from requiring the insurer to propose actions to correct the capital deficiency to placing the insurer under regulatory control. As of December 31, 2009, the RBC of each of our U.S. life insurance subsidiaries exceeded the level of RBC that would require any of them to take or become subject to any corrective action. Statutory accounting principles U.S. insurance regulators developed statutory accounting principles (SAP) as a basis of accounting used to monitor and regulate the solvency of insurers. Since insurance regulators are primarily concerned with ensuring an insurers ability to pay its current and future obligations to policyholders, statutory accounting conservatively values the assets and liabilities of insurers, generally in accordance with standards specified by the insurers domiciliary jurisdiction. Uniform statutory accounting practices are established by the NAIC and are generally adopted by regulators in the various U.S. jurisdictions. Due to differences in methodology between SAP and U.S. GAAP, the values for assets, liabilities and equity reflected in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP are materially different from those reflected in financial statements prepared under SAP. Regulation of investments Each of our U.S. insurers is subject to Insurance Laws that require diversification of its investment portfolio and which limit the proportion of investments in certain asset categories, such as non investment grade fixed 40 Table of Contents maturity securities, equity real estate, other equity investments and derivatives. Assets invested contrary to such regulatory limitations must be treated as non admitted assets for purposes of measuring surplus, and, in some instances, would require divestiture of such non complying investments. We believe the investments made by our U.S. insurers comply with these Insurance Laws. Federal regulation Most of our variable annuity products, some of our fixed guaranteed products, and all of our variable life insurance products, as well as our FABNs issued as part of our registered notes program are securities within the meaning of federal and state securities laws, are registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and are subject to regulation by the SEC. These products may also be indirectly regulated by FINRA as a result of FINRAs regulation of broker/dealers and may be regulated by state securities authorities. Federal and state securities regulation similar to that discussed below under Securities Regulation affects investment advice and sales and related activities with respect to these products. In addition, although the federal government does not comprehensively regulate the business of insurance, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including taxation, financial services regulation, and pension and welfare benefits regulation, can also significantly affect the insurance industry. In addition, in 2009, the SEC adopted a rule that would require most equity indexed annuities to register as securities. In response to a court action challenging the rule, the SEC agreed to delay the rules effective date until it addresses certain procedural deficiencies in the rules adoption. The rule is now expected to become effective two years after its republication in the Federal Register. Federal initiatives Although the federal government generally does not directly regulate the insurance business, federal initiatives often, and increasingly, have an impact on the business in a variety of ways. From time to time, federal measures are proposed which may significantly affect the insurance business, including limitations on antitrust immunity, tax incentives for lifetime annuity payouts, simplification bills affecting tax advantaged or tax exempt savings and retirement vehicles, and proposals to modify or make permanent the estate tax repeal enacted in 2001. In addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of insurance have been proposed in recent years, and this has continued to be the case as Congress considers broader financial regulatory reform in the wake of the recent financial crisis. The House of Representatives in December 2009 passed the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009. A similarly broad financial services reform bill has been developed in the Senate, but no action has been taken to date. The House bill would create a Federal Office of Insurance within the Treasury Department to monitor the insurance industry, but at the present time this office would have no regulatory authority. The House bill also contains the Mortgage Reform and Anti Predatory Lending Act, which could indirectly affect our mortgage insurance activities, as could the House bills provisions on foreclosure avoidance and affordable housing. In addition, the House bill would establish a Consumer Financial Protection Agency, which could impose new sales conduct and licensing standards and change the competitive balance between banks and insurers in terms of their respective exposures to state enforcement of consumer regulations. Under the House bill, the Consumer Financial Protection Agency would be prohibited from exercising its authority with respect to persons regulated by state insurance regulators but would have the power to regulate the non insurance activities of such persons and the consumer financial activities of non insurance subsidiaries of insurers, and it would have the power to consult with the SEC about consumer products regulated by the SEC, which would include annuities that are treated as securities. The regulatory reform effort could also include heightened regulatory oversight over insurers whose failure could pose a systemic risk to the financial system. The various proposals differ on how an insurer may be deemed systemically risky and the consequences of being so designated, such as heightened federal supervision pertaining to solvency and risk management, including with respect to subsidiaries that are otherwise already regulated. We cannot predict whether any of the proposals described above will be adopted or what impact, if any, such proposals, if adopted as laws, may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 41 Table of Contents Changes in tax laws Changes in tax laws could make some of our products less attractive to consumers. For example, the gradual increase in the federal estate tax exclusion amount, begun in 2001, which led to a temporary repeal of the federal estate tax in 2010, which we believe has resulted in reduced sales, and could continue to adversely affect sales and surrenders of some of our estate planning products, including survivorship/second to die life insurance policies. The federal estate tax is currently scheduled to be reinstated for estates of decedents dying after December 31, 2010, and Congress may introduce legislation in early 2010 that will reinstate the federal estate tax. The Jobs and Growth Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2003, which lowered the federal income tax rate on capital gains and certain ordinary dividends, may provide an incentive for certain of our customers and potential customers to shift assets into mutual funds and away from our products including annuities that are designed to defer taxes payable on investment returns. On the other hand, individual income tax rates are scheduled to revert to previous levels in tax years beginning after 2010, possibly positively influencing investors to buy our products, and the 2010 expiration of favorable income tax rates for dividend income could increase interest in our products. However, the Obama Administration has proposed changes to the federal income tax laws that would preserve such favorable dividend and capital gain rates. There are also proposals that would decrease a life insurance companys dividends received deduction on its separate account products and decrease the interest deduction of any business that owns life insurance. In November 2009, the Worker, Homeownership and Business Assistance Act of 2009 was enacted. This includes revised and expanded net operating loss carryback rules. The legislation permits realization of an amount currently recorded as a deferred tax asset and therefore there is no impact to net income. There is an expected recovery of approximately $108 million of cash taxes paid in previous years. U.K. Insurance Regulation General Insurance and reinsurance businesses in the U.K. are subject to regulation by the Financial Services Authority (FSA), which has authorized certain of our U.K. subsidiaries to effect and carry out contracts of insurance in the U.K. Insurers authorized by the FSA in the U.K. are generally able to operate throughout the European Union, subject to satisfying certain FSA requirements and, in some cases, additional local regulatory provisions. Certain of our U.K. subsidiaries operate in other European Union member states through establishment of branch offices. Supervision The FSA has adopted a risk based approach to the supervision of insurers whereby it periodically performs a formal risk assessment of insurance companies or groups conducting business in the U.K. After each risk assessment, the FSA will inform the insurer of its views on the insurers risk profile, including details of remedial action the FSA requires and the likely consequences of not taking such actions. The FSA also supervises the management of insurance companies through the approved persons regime, which subjects to FSA approval any person who performs certain specified controlled functions for or in relation to a regulated entity. In addition, the FSA supervises the sale of general insurance, including certain lifestyle protection and mortgage insurance products. Under FSA rules, persons involved in the sale of general insurance (including insurers and distributors) are prohibited from offering or accepting any inducement in connection with the sale of general insurance that is likely to conflict materially with their duties to insureds. Although the rules do not generally require disclosure of broker compensation, the insurer or distributor must disclose broker compensation at the insureds request. 42 Table of Contents Solvency requirements Under FSA rules, insurers must maintain a minimum amount of capital resources for solvency purposes at all times, the calculation of which depends on the type, amount and claims history of the insurer. Failure to maintain the required minimum amount of capital resources is one of the grounds on which the FSA may exercise its wide powers of intervention. In addition, an insurer that is part of a group is required to perform and submit to the FSA a capital resources calculation return in respect of the following: The solvency capital resources available to the U.K. insurers European group defined by reference to the U.K. insurers ultimate parent company domiciled in the European Economic Area. The solvency capital resources available to the U.K. insurers worldwide group defined by reference to the U.K. insurers ultimate parent company. This requirement is only a reporting requirement. Restrictions on dividend payments The U.K. Companies Act 2006 prohibits U.K. companies from making a distribution such as a dividend to their stockholders unless they have profits available for distribution, the determination of which is based on the companys audited accumulated realized profits (so far as not previously utilized by distribution) less its accumulated realized losses (so far as not previously written off). Change of control The acquisition of control of any U.K. insurer requires prior FSA approval. For these purposes, a party that controls a U.K. insurer includes any company or individual that (together with any person with whom they are acting in concert) directly or indirectly acquires 10% or more of the shares in such insurer or its parent company, or is entitled to exercise or control the exercise of 10% or more of the voting power of such insurer or its parent company or is able to exercise significant influence over the management of the authorized insurance company or its parent company by virtue of its shareholding or voting power. Prior FSA approval is also required where an existing approved controller increases its control through certain thresholds (20%, 30% and 50%). To approve an application for acquiring control or increasing control, the FSA must be satisfied that there is no reasonable ground for objecting to the acquirer on the basis of the following statutory criteria: the acquirers reputation; the reputation and experience of any person who will direct the business of the U.K. insurer as a result of the proposed acquisition; the financial soundness of the acquirer; whether the U.K. insurer will be able to comply with its prudential requirements; if the U.K. authorized person is to become part of a group as a result of the acquisition, whether that group has a structure which makes it possible to exercise effective supervision, exchange of information among regulators and determine the allocation of responsibility among regulators; and whether there are reasonable grounds to suspect that in connection with the proposed acquisition, money laundering or terrorist financing is being or has been committed or attempted or the risk of such activity could increase. Failure to make the relevant prior application is a criminal offence on the part of the potential controller. It could also result in action being taken against our U.K. subsidiaries by the FSA. Intervention and enforcement The FSA has extensive powers to intervene in the affairs of an insurer or authorized person and has the power, among other things, to enforce and take disciplinary measures in respect of, breaches of its rules. Such powers include the power to vary or withdraw any authorizations. Mortgage Insurance State regulation General Mortgage insurers generally are limited by Insurance Laws to writing mortgage insurance business exclusively, prohibiting our mortgage insurers from directly writing other types of insurance. Mortgage insurers are not subject to the NAICs RBC requirements but are subject to other capital requirements placed directly on 43 Table of Contents mortgage insurers. Generally, mortgage insurers are required by certain states and other regulators to maintain a risk in force to capital ratio not to exceed 25:1. However, in 2009, legislation was signed into law in North Carolina granting discretion to the North Carolina Insurance Commissioner through mid 2011 to allow a mortgage insurer to exceed the 25:1 requirement if the Commissioner finds that such insurers contingency reserves and surplus are reasonable in relationship to its aggregate insured risk and adequate to its financial needs, taking into account a number of specified factors. Similar legislative or regulatory initiatives have been proposed or enacted in a number of other states that impose a similar risk to capital requirement on mortgage insurers. As of December 31, 2009, none of our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries had a risk in force to capital ratio in excess of 25:1. Reserves Insurance Laws require our U.S. mortgage insurers to establish a special statutory contingency reserve in their statutory financial statements to provide for losses in the event of significant economic declines. Annual additions to the statutory contingency reserve must equal 50% of net earned premiums as defined by Insurance Laws. These contingency reserves generally are held until the earlier of (i) the time that loss ratios exceed 35% or (ii) ten years, although regulators have granted discretionary releases from time to time. The statutory contingency reserve for our U.S. mortgage insurers was approximately $928 million as of December 31, 2009. This reserve reduces the policyholder surplus of our U.S. mortgage insurers, and therefore, their ability to pay dividends to us. Federal regulation In addition to federal laws that directly affect mortgage insurers, private mortgage insurers are affected indirectly by federal legislation and regulation affecting mortgage originators and lenders, by purchasers of mortgage loans such as Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, and by governmental insurers such as the FHA and VA. For example, changes in federal housing legislation and other laws and regulations that affect the demand for private mortgage insurance may have a material effect on private mortgage insurers. Legislation or regulation that increases the number of people eligible for FHA or VA mortgages could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to compete with the FHA or VA. The Homeowners Protection Act provides for the automatic termination, or cancellation upon a borrowers request, of private mortgage insurance upon satisfaction of certain conditions. The Homeowners Protection Act applies to owner occupied residential mortgage loans regardless of lien priority and to borrower paid mortgage insurance closed after July 29, 1999. FHA loans are not covered by the Homeowners Protection Act. Under the Homeowners Protection Act, automatic termination of mortgage insurance would generally occur once the loan to value ratio reaches 78%. A borrower generally may request cancellation of mortgage insurance once the actual payments reduce the loan balance to 80% of the homes original value. For borrower initiated cancellation of mortgage insurance, the borrower must have a good payment history as defined by the Homeowners Protection Act. The Real Estate Settlement and Procedures Act of 1974 (RESPA) applies to most residential mortgages insured by private mortgage insurers. Mortgage insurance has been considered in some cases to be a settlement service for purposes of loans subject to RESPA. Subject to limited exceptions, RESPA precludes us from providing services to mortgage lenders free of charge, charging fees for services that are lower than their reasonable or fair market value, and paying fees for services that others provide that are higher than their reasonable or fair market value. In addition, RESPA prohibits persons from giving or accepting any portion or percentage of a charge for a real estate settlement service, other than for services actually performed. Although many states prohibit mortgage insurers from giving rebates, RESPA has been interpreted to cover many non fee services as well. Mortgage insurers and their customers are subject to the possible sanctions of this law, which may be enforced by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Administration (HUD), state insurance departments, state attorneys general and other enforcement authorities. 44 Table of Contents The Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA) and the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) also affect the business of mortgage insurance in various ways. ECOA, for example, prohibits discrimination against certain protected classes in credit transactions. FCRA governs the access and use of consumer credit information in credit transactions and requires notices to consumers in certain circumstances. Most originators of mortgage loans are required to collect and report data relating to a mortgage loan applicants race, nationality, gender, marital status and census tract to HUD or the Federal Reserve under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 (HMDA). The purpose of HMDA is to detect possible impermissible discrimination in home lending and, through disclosure, to discourage such discrimination. Mortgage insurers are not required to report HMDA data although, under the laws of several states, mortgage insurers currently are prohibited from discriminating on the basis of certain classifications. Mortgage insurers have, through Mortgage Insurance Companies of America, entered voluntarily into an agreement with the Federal Financial Institutions Examinations Council to report the same data on loans submitted for insurance as is required for most mortgage lenders under HMDA. International regulation Canada The Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions (OSFI) provides oversight to all federally incorporated financial institutions, including our Canadian mortgage insurance company, Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Company Canada, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Genworth Canada. OSFI does not have enforcement powers over market conduct issues in the insurance industry, which are a provincial responsibility. The Federal Bank Act, Insurance Companies Act and Trust and Loan Companies Act prohibit Canadian banks, trust companies and insurers from extending mortgage loans where the loan value exceeds 80% of the propertys value, unless mortgage insurance is obtained in connection with the loan. As a result, all mortgages issued by these financial institutions with a loan to value ratio exceeding 80% must be insured by a qualified insurer or CMHC. In 2009, the Canadian government passed legislation, which has not yet been proclaimed in force, that will, among other things, amend these statutes to prohibit such financial institutions from charging borrowers amounts for mortgage insurance that exceed the lenders actual costs and impose new disclosure obligations in respect of mortgage insurance. The Government Guarantee Agreement in place with the Canadian government guarantees the benefits payable under mortgage insurance policies, less 10% of the original principal amount of an insured loan, in the event that we fail to make claim payments with respect to that loan because of insolvency. We pay the Canadian government a risk premium for this guarantee and make other payments to a reserve fund in respect of the governments obligation. Because banks are not required to maintain regulatory capital on an asset backed by a sovereign guarantee, our 90% sovereign guarantee permits lenders purchasing our mortgage insurance to reduce their regulatory capital charges for credit risks on mortgages by 90%. In addition to recent amendments made to the Government Guarantee Agreement, the Canadian Department of Finance has informed us that they intend to continue to review the Government Guarantee Agreement we have with the Canadian government and we remain engaged in ongoing discussions with Department of Finance officials on this matter. The Insurance Companies Act of Canada provides that dividends may only be declared by the board of directors of the Canadian insurer and paid if there are reasonable grounds to believe that the payment of the dividend would not cause the insurer to be in violation of its minimum capital and liquidity requirements. Also, we are required to notify OSFI at least 15 days prior to the dividend payment date. The legislative requirement in Canada to obtain mortgage insurance on high loan to value mortgages and the favorable capital treatment given to financial institutions because of our 90% sovereign guarantee effectively preclude these financial institutions from issuing simultaneous second mortgage products similar to those offered in the U.S. As a public company that is traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange (the TSX), Genworth Canada is subject to securities laws and regulation in each province in Canada, as well as the reporting requirements of the TSX. 45 Table of Contents Australia APRA regulates all financial institutions in Australia, including life, general and mortgage insurance companies. APRAs license conditions require Australian mortgage insurers to be monoline insurers, which are insurers offering just one type of insurance product. APRA also sets authorized capital levels and monitors corporate governance requirements, including our risk management strategy. In this regard, APRA reviews our management, controls, processes, reporting and methods by which all risks are managed, including an annual financial review and a periodic review of outstanding insurance liabilities by an approved actuary. APRA also annually requires us to submit our risk management and reinsurance management strategy, which outlines our use of reinsurance in Australia. In addition, APRA determines the capital requirements for depository institutions and provides for reduced capital requirements for certain depository institutions that insure residential mortgages with an acceptable mortgage insurer for all non standard mortgages and for standard mortgages with loan to value ratios above 80%. APRAs regulations currently set out a number of circumstances in which a loan may be considered to be non standard from a depository institutions perspective. APRA rules also provide that LMI on a non performing loan (90 days plus arrears) protects most depository institutions from having to increase the regulatory capital on the loan to a risk weighting of 100%. APRAs regulations for mortgage insurers impose minimum capital requirements on mortgage insurers to assure they have sufficient capital to withstand a hypothetical three year stress loss scenario. In addition, the regulations increase mortgage insurers capital requirements for insured loans that are considered to be non standard. These regulations also impose quarterly reporting obligations on mortgage insurers with respect to risk profiles, reinsurance arrangements and financial position, include a definition of an acceptable mortgage insurer and eliminate the reduced capital requirements for depository institutions in the event that the mortgage insurer has contractual recourse to the depository institution or a member of the depository institutions consolidated group. Australian company law provides that dividends may only be paid out of profits of the Australian insurer. Additionally, APRA has the power to impose restrictions on our ability to declare and pay dividends based on a number of factors, including the impact on our minimum regulatory capital ratio. United Kingdom and Europe The U.K. is a member of the European Union and applies the harmonized system of regulation set out in the European Union directives. Our authorization to provide mortgage insurance in the U.K. enables us to offer our products in all the European Union member states, subject to certain regulatory requirements of the FSA and, in some cases, local regulatory requirements. We can provide mortgage insurance only in the classes for which we have authorization under applicable regulations and must maintain required risk and capital reserves. We are also subject to the oversight of other regulatory agencies in other countries throughout Europe where we do business. For more information about U.K. insurance regulation that affects our mortgage subsidiaries that operate in the U.K., see U.K. Insurance Regulation. Other Non U.S. Insurance Regulation We operate in a number of countries around the world in addition to the U.S., Canada, Australia and the U.K., including Mexico, Spain, Guernsey and Bermuda. Generally, our subsidiaries (and in some cases our branches) conducting business in these countries must obtain licenses from local regulatory authorities and satisfy local regulatory requirements, including those relating to rates, forms, capital, reserves and financial reporting. 46 Table of Contents Other Laws and Regulations Securities regulation Certain of our U.S. subsidiaries and certain policies, contracts and services offered by them, are subject to regulation under federal and state securities laws and regulations of the SEC, state securities regulators and FINRA. Certain of our U.S. subsidiaries are investment advisors registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 or applicable state securities laws. Certain of their employees are licensed as investment advisory representatives in states as required by state law. Two of our U.S. investment adviser subsidiaries manage investment companies that are registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940. In addition, some of our insurance company separate accounts are registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Some variable annuity contracts and all of our variable life insurance policies, as well as our FABNs issued by one of our U.S. subsidiaries as part of our registered notes program are registered under the Securities Act of 1933. Certain of our U.S. subsidiaries are registered and regulated as broker/dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and are members of, and subject to regulation by FINRA, as well as by various state and local regulators. The registered representatives of our broker/dealers are also regulated by the SEC and FINRA and are subject to applicable state and local laws. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities markets and generally grant supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. In such event, the possible sanctions that may be imposed include suspension of individual employees, limitations on the activities in which the investment adviser or broker/dealer may engage, suspension or revocation of the investment adviser or broker/ dealer registration, censure or fines. We may also be subject to similar laws and regulations in the states and other countries in which we provide investment advisory services, offer the products described above or conduct other securities related activities. Certain of our U.S. subsidiaries also sponsor and manage investment vehicles that rely on certain exemptions from registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the Securities Act of 1933. Nevertheless, certain provisions of the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the Securities Act of 1933 apply to these investment vehicles and the securities issued by such vehicles in certain circumstances. The Investment Company Act of 1940, the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Securities Act of 1933, including the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, are subject to change, which may affect our U.S. subsidiaries that sponsor and manage such investment vehicles. The SEC, FINRA, state attorneys general, other federal offices and the New York Stock Exchange may conduct periodic examinations, in addition to special or targeted examinations of us and or specific products. These examinations or inquiries may include, but are not necessarily limited to, product disclosures and sales issues, financial and accounting disclosure and operational issues. Often examinations are sweep exams whereby the regulator reviews current issues facing the financial or insurance industry as a whole. Reverse mortgage regulation We acquired Liberty Reverse Mortgage, Incorporated, an originator of reverse mortgage loans, on October 31, 2007. In November 2008, Liberty was renamed Genworth Financial Home Equity Access, Inc. (GFHEA). GFHEA is subject to various federal and state laws and regulations including mortgage banking laws and regulations (Mortgage Banking Laws), as well as other federal and state laws and regulations protecting privacy and other consumer rights. GFHEA is regulated by the mortgage banking departments of the states in which it is licensed, as well as the FHA with respect to loans insured through HUD. In addition, mortgage banking authorities (including state law enforcement agencies and attorneys general) increasingly make inquiries regarding compliance with Mortgage Banking Laws and other applicable laws and regulations, and we cooperate with such inquiries and take corrective action when warranted. HUD conducts periodic, detailed examinations of the loans and business practices of issuers of reverse mortgage loans it insures. 47 Table of Contents Environmental considerations As an owner and operator of real property, we are subject to extensive U.S. federal and state and non U.S. environmental laws and regulations. Potential environmental liabilities and costs in connection with any required remediation of such properties is also an inherent risk in property ownership and operation. In addition, we hold equity interests in companies, and have made loans secured by properties, that could potentially be subject to environmental liabilities. We routinely have environmental assessments performed with respect to real estate being acquired for investment and real property to be acquired through foreclosure. We cannot provide assurance that unexpected environmental liabilities will not arise. However, based upon information currently available to us, we believe that any costs associated with compliance with environmental laws and regulations or any remediation of such properties will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. ERISA considerations We provide certain products and services to employee benefit plans that are subject to ERISA or the Internal Revenue Code. As such, our activities are subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code, including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries, and fiduciaries may not cause or permit a covered plan to engage in certain prohibited transactions with persons who have certain relationships with respect to such plans. The applicable provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code are subject to enforcement by the U.S. Department of Labor, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. USA PATRIOT Act The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the Patriot Act), enacted in response to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, contains anti money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various new regulations applicable to broker/dealers and other financial services companies including insurance companies. The Patriot Act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties who may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. Anti money laundering laws outside of the U.S. contain similar provisions. The increased obligations of financial institutions to identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and share information with other financial institutions, require the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls. We believe that we have implemented, and that we maintain, appropriate internal practices, procedures and controls to enable us to comply with the provisions of the Patriot Act. Certain additional requirements became applicable under the Patriot Act in May 2006 through a U.S. Treasury regulation which required that certain insurers have anti money laundering compliance plans in place. We believe our plan complies with these requirements. Privacy of consumer information U.S. federal and state laws and regulations require financial institutions, including insurance companies, to protect the security and confidentiality of consumer financial information and to notify consumers about the companies policies and practices relating to their collection and disclosure of consumer information and their policies relating to protecting the security and confidentiality of that information. Similarly, federal and state laws and regulations also govern the disclosure and security of consumer health information. In particular, regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services regulate the disclosure and use of protected health information by health insurers and others, the physical and procedural safeguards employed to protect the security of that information, and the electronic transmission of such information. Congress and state legislatures are expected to consider additional legislation relating to privacy and other aspects of consumer information. In Europe, the collection and use of personal information is subject to strict regulation. The European Unions Data Protection Directive establishes a series of privacy requirements that European Union member states are obliged to enact into their national legislation. Certain European Union countries have additional 48 Table of Contents national law requirements regarding the use of private data. Other European countries that are not European Union member states have similar privacy requirements in their national laws. These requirements generally apply to all businesses, including insurance companies. In general, companies may process personal information only if consent has been obtained from the individuals concerned or if certain other conditions are met. These other requirements include the provision of notice to customers and other persons concerning how their personal information is used and disclosed, limitations on the transfer of personal information to countries outside the European Union, registration with the national privacy authorities, where applicable, and the use of appropriate information security measures against the access or use of personal information by unauthorized persons. Similar laws and regulations protecting the security and confidentiality of consumer and financial information are also in effect in Canada, Australia and other countries in which we operate. Employees As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 6,000 full time and part time employees. We believe our employee relations are satisfactory. Directors and Executive Officers See Part III, Item 10 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for information about our directors and executive officers. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available, without charge, on our website, www.genworth.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports with the SEC. Our SEC filings are also accessible through the Internet on the SECs web site at www.sec.gov. Copies are also available, without charge, from Genworth Investor Relations, 6620 West Broad Street, Richmond, VA 23230. Our website also includes the charters of our Audit Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Legal and Public Affairs Committee, and Management Development and Compensation Committee, any key practices of these committees, our Governance Principles, and our companys code of ethics. Copies of these materials also are available, without charge, from Genworth Investor Relations, at the above address. Within the time period required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, we will post on our website any amendment to our code of ethics and any waiver applicable to any of our directors, executive officers or senior financial officers. On May 26, 2009, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer certified to the New York Stock Exchange that he was not aware of any violation by us of the New York Stock Exchanges corporate governance listing standards. Transfer Agent and Registrar Our Transfer Agent and Registrar is The Bank of New York Mellon Shareowner Services, P.O. Box 358015, Pittsburgh, PA 15252 8015. Telephone: 866 229 8413; 201 680 6578 (outside the U.S. and Canada may call collect); and 800 231 5469 (for hearing impaired). 49 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks. These risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our common stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward looking statements made by us or on our behalf. These risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under Cautionary note regarding forward looking statements and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2009. Risks Relating to Our Businesses Downturns and volatility in global economies and equity and credit markets could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our results of operations are materially affected by the state of the global economies in which we operate and conditions in the capital markets we access. Factors such as higher unemployment, lower consumer spending, lower business investment, higher government spending, the volatility and strength of the global capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. The recessionary state and the volatility of many economies have fueled uncertainty and downturns in global mortgage markets have contributed to increased volatility in our business and results of operations. This uncertainty and volatility has impacted, and may continue to impact, the demand for certain financial and insurance products. As a result, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies, and some of our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. If domestic and international equity and credit markets experience heightened volatility and turmoil, issuers that have exposure to the mortgage and credit markets would be particularly affected. These events would have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have exposure to such issuers in our investment portfolio and also because such events can influence customer behavior. Our revenues would decline if there are significant impairments in our investment portfolio or the equity markets erode the profitability of our retirement income products impacted by those markets. In addition, given continuing challenges in market conditions, issuers of the fixed income securities and commercial mortgage loans that we own may default on principal and interest payments. Economic downturns like the one recently experienced could cause significant declines in the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and could lead to a higher rate of defaults on our fixed income security portfolio, as well as declines in certain other asset classes and corporate bond sectors, that could adversely affect our financial results. Securities that are less liquid could also become more difficult to value and could be hard to dispose of in that type of economic environment. The economic downturn has had, and will continue to have, an adverse effect on our ability to efficiently access capital markets for capital management purposes, including the issuance of fixed and floating rate non recourse funding obligations for purposes of supporting our term and universal life insurance products. If credit markets remain tight, this is likely to have a continuing adverse impact on our profitability, liquidity and access to funding opportunities. Downturns and volatility in equity markets may also discourage purchases of separate account products, such as variable annuities, that have returns linked to the performance of the equity markets and may cause some existing customers to withdraw cash values or reduce investments in these products. In addition, if the performance of the underlying mutual funds in the separate account products experience downturns and volatility for an extended period of time, the payment of any living benefit guarantee available in certain variable annuity products may have an adverse effect on us, because more payments will be required to come from general account assets than from contractholder separate account investments. Continued equity market volatility could 50 Table of Contents result in additional losses in our variable annuity products and associated hedging program which will further challenge our ability to recover deferred acquisition costs (DAC) on these products and could lead to additional write offs of DAC, as well as increased hedging costs. Our revenues and returns from our mutual fund wrapped and separately managed account products and services could also be impacted by downturns and volatility in equity markets. Because these products and services generate fees generally from the value of assets under management, a decline in the equity markets could reduce our revenues by reducing the value of the investment assets we manage. Downturns in equity markets could also lead to an increase in liabilities associated with secondary guarantee features, such as guaranteed minimum benefits on separate account products, where we have equity market risk exposure. A downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Financial strength ratings, which various rating agencies publish as measures of an insurance companys ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in our products, the ability to market our products and our competitive position. Credit ratings, which rating agencies publish as measures of an entitys ability to repay its indebtedness, are important to our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt and to the cost of such financing. See Item 1. Business Financial Strength Ratings for a complete description of our subsidiaries current ratings. A ratings downgrade could occur for a variety of reasons, including reasons specifically related to our company, generally related to our industry or the broader financial services industry or as a result of changes by the rating agencies in their methodologies or rating criteria. A negative outlook on our ratings or a downgrade in any of our financial strength or credit ratings, the announcement of a potential downgrade, or customer concerns about the possibility of a downgrade, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These direct or indirect effects could include: reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products; requiring us to modify some of our existing products or services to remain competitive, or introduce new products or services; adversely affecting our relationships with key distributors, independent sales intermediaries and our dedicated sales specialists, including the loss of exclusivity under certain agreements with our independent sales intermediaries; materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders; requiring us to post additional collateral or terminate contracts under the terms of the International Swaps and Derivatives Association agreements with derivative counterparties, or to provide support in the form of collateral, capital contributions or letters of credit under the terms of certain of our reinsurance, securitization and other agreements; adversely affecting our ability to maintain reinsurance assumed or obtain new reinsurance or obtain it on reasonable pricing terms; adversely affecting our ability to raise capital; and increasing our cost of borrowing. In addition, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac require maintenance of a rating by at least two out of three listed rating agencies (S&P, Fitch and Moodys) of at least AA /Aa3 (as applicable); otherwise additional limitations or requirements may be in the case of Fannie Mae or will be in the case of Freddie Mac imposed for eligibility to insure loans purchased by the GSEs. In February 2008, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac temporarily 51 Table of Contents suspended their ratings requirements for top tier mortgage insurers, subject to submission of an acceptable remediation plan. We have submitted remediation plans to both GSEs and to date have not been advised that either intends to impose additional requirements upon us. As of December 31, 2009, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac purchased the majority of the flow loans we insured in the U.S. An inability to insure mortgage loans sold to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, or their transfer of our existing policies to an alternative mortgage insurer, would have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Interest rate fluctuations and levels could adversely affect our business and profitability. Our insurance and investment products are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations and expose us to the risk that falling interest rates or credit spreads will reduce our margin or the difference between the returns we earn on the investments that support our obligations under these products and the amounts that we must pay to policyholders and contractholders. Because we may reduce the interest rates we credit on most of these products only at limited, pre established intervals, and because some contracts have guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates, declines in interest rates have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the profitability of these products. During periods of increasing market interest rates, we may offer higher crediting rates on interest sensitive products, such as universal life insurance and fixed annuities, and we may increase crediting rates on in force products to keep these products competitive. In addition, rapidly rising interest rates may cause increased policy surrenders, withdrawals from life insurance policies and annuity contracts and requests for policy loans, as policyholders and contractholders shift assets into higher yielding investments. Increases in crediting rates, as well as surrenders and withdrawals, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our term life and long term care insurance products also expose us to the risk of interest rate fluctuations. The pricing and expected future profitability of these products are based in part on expected investment returns. Over time, term life and long term care insurance products generally produce positive cash flows as customers pay periodic premiums, which we invest as they are received. Low interest rates reduce our ability to achieve our targeted investment margins and may adversely affect the profitability of our term life and long term care insurance products. In both the U.S. and international mortgage markets, rising interest rates generally reduce the volume of new mortgage originations. A decline in the volume of new mortgage originations would have an adverse effect on our new mortgage insurance written. Rising interest rates also can increase the monthly mortgage payments for insured homeowners with adjustable rate mortgages (ARMs) that could have the effect of increasing default rates on ARM loans and thereby increasing our exposure on our mortgage insurance policies. This is particularly relevant in our international mortgage insurance business where ARMs are the predominant mortgage product. Declining interest rates historically have increased the rate at which borrowers refinance their existing mortgages, thereby resulting in cancellations of the mortgage insurance covering the refinanced loans. Declining interest rates historically also have contributed to home price appreciation, which may provide borrowers in the U.S. with the option of cancelling their mortgage insurance coverage earlier than we anticipated when pricing that coverage. These cancellations could have an adverse effect on our results from our U.S. mortgage insurance business. However, under current housing market conditions, we are in a period of home price depreciation in a majority of markets. Consequently, some borrowers in the U.S. do not have sufficient equity to allow refinancing of existing higher rate ARMs for lower rate mortgage loans, an action that would typically result in the cancellation of existing mortgage insurance coverage. Many of these borrowers are now contributing to higher delinquencies and foreclosures because they are not able to meet the reset higher monthly payments due under the terms of the underlying ARMs. These developments have had an adverse impact on our U.S. mortgage insurance business. 52 Table of Contents Interest rate fluctuations also could have an adverse effect on the results of our investment portfolio. During periods of declining market interest rates, the interest we receive on variable interest rate investments decreases. In addition, during those periods, we are forced to reinvest the cash we receive as interest or return of principal on our investments in lower yielding high grade instruments or in lower credit instruments to maintain comparable returns. Issuers of fixed income securities may also decide to prepay their obligations in order to borrow at lower market rates, which exacerbates the risk that we may have to invest the cash proceeds of these securities in lower yielding or lower credit instruments. Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital and may affect our ability to meet liquidity or refinancing requirements in the future. In the event market or other conditions have an adverse impact on our capital and liquidity needs beyond expectations and the sources outlined do not satisfy our needs, we could have to seek additional funding. Funding sources could potentially include the generation of proceeds from the sale of assets (including assets in our investment portfolio, blocks of business or all or a portion of a business) or the incurrence of additional debt. In addition, funding sources could potentially include issuing equity, with any decision to issue equity thoroughly considering the degree to which such an equity issuance would dilute current stockholders value. All such funding sources can have various impacts on our financial condition, including book value, and results of operations. The availability of additional funding will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, regulatory considerations, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, the level of activity and availability of reinsurers or acquirers of assets, our credit ratings and credit capacity and the performance of and outlook for our business. Market conditions may make it difficult to obtain funding or complete asset sales to generate additional liquidity, especially on short notice. Our access to funding may be further impaired if our credit or financial strength ratings are negatively impacted. Our valuation of fixed maturity, equity and trading securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Fixed maturity, equity and trading securities are reported at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. They represent the majority of our total cash, cash equivalents and invested assets. Our portfolio of fixed maturity securities consists primarily of investment grade securities. During periods of market disruption, including periods of volatile asset pricing, credit spread volatility, illiquidity and reduced transparency of market participant valuation inputs, certain of our investment securities, such as our Alt A and sub prime mortgage backed securities, become difficult to value. There may be certain asset classes that were in active markets with significant observable data that become illiquid due to the economic environment. In these cases, valuing our investment securities may require more subjectivity and management judgment. As a result, valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, as well as valuation methods that are more sophisticated or require greater estimation, thereby resulting in values that are less certain and may vary significantly from the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. The methodologies, estimates and assumptions we use in valuing our investment securities evolve over time and are subject to different interpretation (including based on developments in relevant accounting literature), all of which can lead to changes in the value of our investment securities. Rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of investment securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements, and the period to period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Defaults, downgrades or other events impacting the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio may reduce our income. We are subject to the risk that the issuers or guarantors of fixed maturity securities we own may default on principal or interest payments they owe us. As of December 31, 2009, fixed maturity securities of $49.8 billion in 53 Table of Contents our investment portfolio represented 73% of our total cash, cash equivalents and invested assets. Events reducing the value of our investment portfolio other than on a temporary basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Levels of write downs or impairments are impacted by our assessment of the financial condition of the issuer, whether or not the issuer is expected to pay its principal and interest obligations or circumstances that would require us to sell securities which have declined in value. Recent volatility and uncertainty in the sub prime and Alt A residential market have resulted in increased delinquency rates and these developments have had an adverse impact on our investments in securities backed by sub prime and Alt A residential mortgage loans. The credit quality of our hybrid securities may be adversely impacted by the level and type of government support, including the risk that these institutions could be nationalized or be restricted from making discretionary payments of principal or interest. If we determine to reposition or realign portions of the portfolio where we determine to sell certain securities in an unrealized loss position, then we will incur an other than temporary impairment charge. Defaults on our commercial mortgage loans or the mortgage loans underlying our investments in commercial mortgage backed securities and volatility in performance may adversely affect our profitability. Our commercial mortgage loans and investments in commercial mortgage backed securities face default risk. Commercial mortgage loans are stated on our consolidated balance sheets at unpaid principal balance, adjusted for any unamortized premium or discount, deferred fees or expenses, and are net of impairments and valuation allowances. We establish valuation allowances for estimated impairments as of the balance sheet date based on information, such as the market value of the underlying real estate securing the loan, any third party guarantees on the loan balance or any cross collateral agreements and their impact on expected recovery rates. Commercial mortgage backed securities are stated on our balance sheet at fair value. The performance of our commercial mortgage loans and commercial mortgage backed securities investments, however, may fluctuate in the future. In addition, some of our commercial mortgage loans and the underlying mortgage loans supporting our investments in commercial mortgage backed securities have balloon payment maturities. An increase in the default rate of our commercial mortgage loans could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, any concentration of geographic or sector exposure in our commercial mortgage loans or the mortgage loans underlying our investments in commercial mortgage backed securities may have adverse effects on our investment portfolios and consequently on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. While we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are exposed. We may be required to recognize additional impairments in the value of our goodwill, which would increase our expenses and reduce our U.S. GAAP profitability. Goodwill represents the excess of the amount we paid to acquire our subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of the acquisition. Under U.S. GAAP, we test the carrying value of goodwill for impairment at least annually at the reporting unit level, which is either an operating segment or a business one level below the operating segment. Goodwill is impaired if the fair value of the reporting unit as a whole is less than the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, plus the carrying value of goodwill, at the date of the test. For example, goodwill may become impaired if the fair value of a reporting unit as a whole were to decline by an amount greater than the decline in the value of its individually identifiable assets and liabilities. This may occur for various reasons, including changes in actual or expected income or cash flows of a reporting unit or generation of income by a reporting unit at a lower rate of return than similar businesses or for decreases in our market capitalization. If any portion of our goodwill becomes impaired, we would be required to recognize the amount of the impairment as a non cash expense in the current period. See note 8 in our consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our consolidated financial statements, the related notes and the accompanying independent registered public accounting firms report (which refers to changes in accounting for other than temporary impairments in 2009, and deferred acquisition costs in connection with modifications or exchanges of insurance contracts in 2007), which are included in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Years ended December 31, (Amounts in millions, except per share amounts) 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Consolidated Statements of Income Information Revenues: Premiums $ 6,019 $ 6,777 $ 6,330 $ 5,802 $ 5,638 Net investment income 3,033 3,730 4,135 3,787 3,489 Net investment gains (losses) (1) (1,041 ) (1,709 ) (332 ) (69 ) (1 ) Insurance and investment product fees and other 1,058 1,150 992 765 660 Total revenues 9,069 9,948 11,125 10,285 9,786 Benefits and expenses: Benefits and operating expenses 9,468 10,420 9,038 8,068 7,748 Interest expense 393 470 481 364 293 Total benefits and expenses 9,861 10,890 9,519 8,432 8,041 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change (792 ) (942 ) 1,606 1,853 1,745 Provision (benefit) for income taxes (393 ) (370 ) 452 570 559 Income (loss) from continuing operations before cumulative effect of accounting change (399 ) (572 ) 1,154 1,283 1,186 Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes (2) 15 41 35 Gain on sale of discontinued operations, net of taxes (2) 51 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change (399 ) (572 ) 1,220 1,324 1,221 Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of taxes (3) 4 Net income (loss) (399 ) (572 ) 1,220 1,328 1,221 Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (4) 61 Net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders $ (460 ) $ (572 ) $ 1,220 $ 1,328 $ 1,221 Income (loss) from continuing operations per common share: Basic $ (0.88 ) $ (1.32 ) $ 2.62 $ 2.81 $ 2.50 Diluted (5) $ (0.88 ) $ (1.32 ) $ 2.58 $ 2.73 $ 2.45 Net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders per common share: Basic $ (1.02 ) $ (1.32 ) $ 2.77 $ 2.91 $ 2.57 Diluted (5) $ (1.02 ) $ (1.32 ) $ 2.73 $ 2.83 $ 2.52 Weighted average common shares outstanding (6): Basic 451.1 433.2 439.7 455.9 475.3 Diluted (5) 451.1 433.2 447.6 469.4 484.6 Cash dividends declared per common share (7) $ $ 0.30 $ 0.38 $ 0.33 $ 0.28 80 Table of Contents Years ended December 31, (Amounts in millions) 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Selected Segment Information Total revenues: Retirement and Protection $ 5,667 $ 6,336 $ 6,884 $ 6,652 $ 6,314 International 2,560 2,907 2,689 2,144 2,103 U.S. Mortgage Insurance 826 851 805 658 607 Corporate and Other 16 (146 ) 747 831 762 Total $ 9,069 $ 9,948 $ 11,125 $ 10,285 $ 9,786 Income (loss) from continuing operations before cumulative effect of accounting change: Retirement and Protection $ (60 ) $ (145 ) $ 629 $ 641 $ 663 International 441 608 580 469 359 U.S. Mortgage Insurance (427 ) (368 ) 171 262 238 Corporate and Other (353 ) (667 ) (226 ) (89 ) (74 ) Total $ (399 ) $ (572 ) $ 1,154 $ 1,283 $ 1,186 Consolidated Balance Sheet Information Total investments $ 63,515 $ 60,612 $ 70,800 $ 68,573 $ 66,020 All other assets (8) 44,672 46,777 43,515 40,316 37,692 Assets associated with discontinued operations (2) 1,982 1,942 Total assets $ 108,187 $ 107,389 $ 114,315 $ 110,871 $ 105,654 Policyholder liabilities $ 69,220 $ 73,291 $ 72,977 $ 70,793 $ 69,716 Non recourse funding obligations 3,443 3,455 3,455 2,765 1,400 Short term borrowings 930 1,133 200 199 152 Long term borrowings 3,641 4,261 3,903 4,021 3,436 All other liabilities 17,603 16,323 20,302 18,340 16,239 Liabilities associated with discontinued operations (2) 1,423 1,401 Total liabilities $ 94,837 $ 98,463 $ 100,837 $ 97,541 $ 92,344 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) $ (164 ) $ (3,062 ) $ 727 $ 1,157 $ 1,404 Noncontrolling interests (4) $ 1,074 $ $ $ $ Total stockholders equity $ 13,350 $ 8,926 $ 13,478 $ 13,330 $ 13,310 U.S. Statutory Financial Information (9) Statutory capital and surplus (10) $ 5,878 $ 6,436 $ 6,597 $ 7,234 $ 6,672 Asset valuation reserve (11) $ 56 $ 320 $ 430 $ 439 $ 416 (1) On April 1, 2009, we adopted new accounting guidance related to the recognition and presentation of other than temporary impairments. This accounting guidance modified the presentation of other than temporary impairments for certain debt securities to only present the impairment loss in net income (loss) that represents the credit loss associated with the other than temporary impairment with the remaining impairment loss being presented in other comprehensive income (loss). For further discussion, refer to note 2 in our consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Overview Our business We are a leading financial security company dedicated to providing insurance, wealth management, investment and financial solutions to more than 15 million customers, with a presence in more than 25 countries. We have three operating segments: Retirement and Protection, International and U.S. Mortgage Insurance. Retirement and Protection. We offer and manage a variety of protection, wealth management and retirement income products. Our primary protection products include: life, long term care and Medicare supplement insurance. Additionally, we offer other senior supplemental products, as well as care coordination services for our long term care policyholders. Our wealth management and retirement income products include: a variety of managed account programs and advisor services, financial planning services, fixed and variable deferred and immediate individual annuities and group variable annuities offered through retirement plans. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our Retirement and Protection segments net loss available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders was $60 million while net operating income available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders was $424 million. International. We are a leading provider of mortgage insurance products in Canada, Australia, Mexico and multiple European countries. Our products predominantly insure prime based, individually underwritten residential mortgage loans, also known as flow mortgage insurance. On a limited basis, we also provide mortgage insurance on a structured, or bulk, basis that aids in the sale of mortgages to the capital markets and helps lenders manage capital and risk. Additionally, we offer services, analytical tools and technology that enable lenders to operate efficiently and manage risk. We also offer payment protection coverages in multiple European countries, Canada and Mexico. Our lifestyle protection insurance products help consumers meet specified payment obligations should they become unable to pay due to accident, illness, involuntary unemployment, disability or death. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our International segments net income available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders and net operating income available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders were $380 million and $385 million, respectively. U.S. Mortgage Insurance. In the U.S., we offer mortgage insurance products predominantly insuring prime based, individually underwritten residential mortgage loans, also known as flow mortgage insurance. We selectively provide mortgage insurance on a structured, or bulk, basis with essentially all of our bulk writings prime based. Additionally, we offer services, analytical tools and technology that enable lenders to operate efficiently and manage risk. For the year ended December 31, 2009, our U.S. Mortgage Insurance segments net loss available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders and net operating loss available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders were $427 million and $459 million, respectively. We also have Corporate and Other activities which include debt financing expenses that are incurred at our holding company level, unallocated corporate income and expenses, eliminations of inter segment transactions, the results of non core businesses and non strategic products that are managed outside of our operating segments and our group life and health insurance business, which we sold on May 31, 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2009, Corporate and Other activities had a net loss available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders and a net operating loss available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders of $353 million and $152 million, respectively. 83 Table of Contents Our financial information The financial information in this Annual Report on Form 10 K has been derived from our consolidated financial statements. Our consolidated financial statements included our group life and health insurance business that was presented in our consolidated financial statements as discontinued operations until sold in May 2007. See note 8 to our consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion of recent market conditions. In 2009, the currencies in our principal international locations (Canada, Australia and Europe) have strengthened against the U.S. dollar. This has resulted in higher levels of reported revenues, net income (loss), assets, liabilities and AOCI in our U.S. dollar consolidated financial statements. See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion on the impact changes in foreign currency exchange rates have had during the year. We enter into market sensitive instruments primarily for purposes other than trading. The carrying value of our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $63.5 billion and $60.6 billion, respectively, of which 78% and 71%, respectively, was invested in fixed maturity securities. The primary market risk to our investment portfolio is interest rate risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. We mitigate the market risk associated with our fixed maturity securities portfolio by closely matching the duration of our fixed maturity securities with the duration of the liabilities that those securities are intended to support. The primary market risk for our long term borrowings is interest rate risk at the time of maturity or early redemption, when we may be required to refinance these obligations. We continue to monitor the interest rate environment and to evaluate refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. We are exposed to equity risk on our holdings of common stocks and other equities, as well as risk on products where we have equity market risk exposure. We manage equity price risk through industry and issuer diversification, asset allocation techniques and hedging strategies. We also have exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. Our international operations generate revenues denominated in local currencies, and we invest cash generated outside the U.S. in non U.S. denominated 172 Table of Contents securities. Although investing in securities denominated in local currencies limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on local operating results, we remain exposed to the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates as we translate the operating results of our foreign operations into our historical combined financial statements. We currently do not hedge this exposure. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, 160%, 116% and 43%, respectively, of our income from continuing operations, excluding net investment gains (losses), were generated by our international operations. We use derivative instruments, such as interest rate and foreign currency swaps, financial futures and option based financial instruments, as part of our risk management strategy. We use these derivatives to mitigate certain risks, including interest rate risk, currency risk and equity risk, by: reducing the risk between the timing of the receipt of cash and its investment in the market; matching the currency of invested assets with the liabilities they support; converting the asset duration to match the duration of the liabilities; reducing our exposure to fluctuations in equity market indices that underlie some of our products; and protecting against the early termination of an asset or liability. As a matter of policy, we have not and will not engage in derivative market making, speculative derivative trading or other speculative derivatives activities. Sensitivity Analysis Sensitivity analysis measures the impact of hypothetical changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and other market rates or prices on the profitability of market sensitive financial instruments. The following discussion about the potential effects of changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market prices is based on so called shock tests, which model the effects of interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market price shifts on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we believe shock tests provide the most meaningful analysis permitted by the rules and regulations of the SEC, they are constrained by several factors, including the necessity to conduct the analysis based on a single point in time and by their inability to include the extraordinarily complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled. Although the following results of shock tests for changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market prices may have some limited use as benchmarks, they should not be viewed as forecasts. These forward looking disclosures also are selective in nature and address only the potential impacts on our financial instruments. For the purpose of this sensitivity analysis, we excluded the potential impacts on our insurance liabilities that are not considered financial instruments, with the exception of those insurance liabilities that have embedded derivatives that are required to be bifurcated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. They do not include a variety of other potential factors that could affect our business as a result of these changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market prices. Interest Rate Risk One means of assessing exposure of our fixed maturity securities portfolio to interest rate changes is a duration based analysis that measures the potential changes in market value resulting from a hypothetical change in interest rates of 100 basis points across all maturities. This is sometimes referred to as a parallel shift in the yield curve. Under this model, with all other factors constant and assuming no offsetting change in the value of our liabilities, we estimated that such an increase in interest rates would cause the market value of our fixed income securities portfolio to decline by approximately $2.8 billion before the effect of deferred taxes, DAC and PVFP, based on our securities positions as of December 31, 2009. We performed a similar sensitivity analysis on our derivative portfolio and noted that a 100 basis point increase in interest rates resulted in a decrease in fair value of $592 million based on our derivatives portfolio as 173 Table of Contents of December 31, 2009. We also performed a similar sensitivity analysis on our embedded derivatives associated with our GMWB liabilities and noted that a 100 basis point increase in interest rates resulted in a decrease of $100 million based on our embedded derivative liabilities as of December 31, 2009. The principal amount, weighted average interest rate and fair value by maturity, of our variable rate non recourse funding obligations were as follows as of December 31, 2009: (Amounts in millions) Principalamount Weighted averageinterestrate Fairvalue (2) Maturity (1): River Lake Insurance Company IV, 2028 $ 528 0.66 % $ 286 River Lake Insurance Company, 2033 1,070 1.52 % 563 River Lake Insurance Company II, 2035 850 1.24 % 438 River Lake Insurance Company III, 2036 680 1.71 % 325 Rivermont Insurance Company I, 2050 315 2.33 % 62 Total $ 3,443 1.49 % $ 1,674 (1) There are no maturities over the next five years. (2) The valuation methodology used is based on then current coupon, revalued based on the LIBOR rate set and current spread assumption based on commercially available data. The model is a floating rate coupon model using the spread assumption to derive the valuation. Foreign Currency Risk One means of assessing exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates is to model effects on reported income using a sensitivity analysis. We analyzed our combined currency exposure for the year ended December 31, 2009, including the results of our international operations financial instruments designated and effective as hedges to identify assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than their relevant functional currencies. Net unhedged exposures in each currency were then remeasured, generally assuming a 10% decrease in foreign currency exchange rates compared to the U.S. dollar. Under this model, with all other factors constant, we estimated that such a decrease would decrease our pre tax results by approximately $70 million. We also performed a similar sensitivity analysis on our foreign currency derivative portfolio and noted that a 10% decrease in currency exchange rates resulted in a decrease in fair value of $58 million as of December 31, 2009. The change in fair value of derivatives may not result in a direct impact to our income as a result of certain derivatives that may be designated as qualifying hedge relationships. Equity Market Risk One means of assessing exposure to changes in equity market prices is to estimate the potential changes in market values on our equity investments resulting from a hypothetical broad based decline in equity market prices of 10%. Under this model, with all other factors constant, we estimated that such a decline in equity market prices would cause the market value of our equity investments to decline by approximately $9 million based on our equity positions as of December 31, 2009. We performed a similar sensitivity analysis on our equity market derivatives and noted that a 10% decline in equity market prices would result in an increase in fair value of $95 million based on our equity market derivatives as of December 31, 2009. We also performed a similar sensitivity analysis on our embedded derivatives associated with our GMWB liabilities and noted that a 10% decline in equity market prices would result in an increase in fair value of $76 million based on our embedded derivative liabilities as of December 31, 2009. 174 Table of Contents Fluctuations in equity market prices also affect our variable annuity and wealth management products, which depend upon fees that are related primarily to the value of assets under management. Continued equity market volatility could adversely impact our revenues and returns of these products. In addition, material losses in our variable annuity products and associated hedging program could challenge our ability to recover DAC on these products and could lead to further write offs of DAC. Derivative Counterparty Credit Risk We manage our derivative counterparty credit risk on an individual counterparty basis, which means that gains and losses are netted for each counterparty to determine the amount at risk. We have set individual counterparty limits and consider our exposure to each counterparty by taking into account the specific exposures of each of our subsidiaries to such counterparty on an aggregate basis. If a counterparty exceeds credit exposure limits in terms of amounts owed to us, unless an exception is granted by management, no additional transactions are executed until the exposure with that counterparty is reduced to an amount that is within the established limit. All of our master swap agreements contain credit downgrade provisions that allow a party to assign or terminate derivative transactions if the other partys long term unsecured debt rating or financial strength rating is below the limit defined in the applicable agreement. Swaps and purchased options are conducted within the credit policy constraints provided in the table below. Our policy permits us to enter into derivative transactions with counterparties rated A2 by Moodys and A by S&P if the agreements governing such transactions require both parties to provide collateral in certain circumstances. The following table sets forth derivative counterparty credit limits by credit rating as of December 31, 2009: (Amounts in millions) S&P rating Moodys rating Long term(exposures overone year) net ofcollateral Aggregate limits(including thoseunder one year)net of collateral Aggregate limit(gross of collateral) AAA Aaa $ 50 $ 125 $ 300 AA Aa3 25 100 250 A A2 15 90 200 175 Table of Contents 
 
