Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations International. As of or for the years endedDecember 31, (Amounts in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Revenues: International mortgage insurance $ 1,372 $ 1,259 $ 1,350 Lifestyle protection insurance 1,112 1,301 1,557 Total revenues $ 2,484 $ 2,560 $ 2,907 Net operating income available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders: International mortgage insurance $ 363 $ 329 $ 481 Lifestyle protection insurance 71 56 152 Total net operating income available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders 434 385 633 Net investment gains (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments 10 (5 ) (16 ) Expenses related to reorganization, net of taxes (9 ) Net income available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders 444 380 608 Add: net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 143 61 Net income $ 587 $ 441 $ 608 Total segment assets $ 12,422 $ 12,143 $ 10,498 International mortgage insurance We have significant mortgage insurance operations in Canada and Australia, two of the largest markets for mortgage insurance products outside of the United States, as well as smaller operations in New Zealand and developing mortgage insurance markets such as Europe and Mexico. The mortgage loan markets in Canada and Australia are well developed, and mortgage insurance plays an important role in each of these markets. However, these markets vary significantly and are influenced by different economic, public policy, regulatory, distributor, credit and cultural conditions. 14 Table of Contents We believe the following factors have contributed to the growth of mortgage insurance demand in these countries: a desire by lenders to expand their business by offering low down payment mortgage loans; the recognition of the higher default risk inherent in low down payment lending and the need for specialized underwriting expertise to conduct this business prudently; government housing policies that support a high level of homeownership; government policies that support the use of securitization and secondary market mortgage sales, in which third party credit enhancement is often used to facilitate funding and liquidity for mortgage lending; and bank regulatory capital policies that provide incentives to lenders to transfer some or all of the credit risk on low down payment mortgages to third parties, such as mortgage insurers. Based upon our experience in these mature markets, we believe a favorable regulatory framework is important to the development of high loan to value lending and the use of products such as mortgage insurance to protect against default risk or to obtain capital relief. As a result, we have advocated government and policymaking agencies throughout our markets to adopt legislative and regulatory policies supporting increased homeownership and the use of private mortgage insurance. We have significant expertise in mature markets, and we leverage this experience in selected developing markets to encourage regulatory authorities to implement incentives to use private mortgage insurance as an important element of their housing finance systems. We believe the revisions to a set of regulatory rules and procedures governing global bank capital standards that were introduced by the Basel Committee of the Bank for International Settlements, recently revised to strengthen regulatory capital requirements for banks and now referred to as Basel III, also may encourage further use of mortgage insurance as a risk and capital management tool in international markets. While Basel III was issued in December 2010, its adoption by individual countries internationally and in the United States has only begun. Changes in national implementation could occur which might aid or detract from future demand for mortgage insurance. Mortgage insurance in our International segment is predominantly single premium and provides 100% coverage in the two largest markets of Canada and Australia. With single premium policies, the premium is usually included as part of the aggregate loan amount and paid to us as the mortgage insurer. We record the proceeds to unearned premium reserves, invest those proceeds and recognize the premiums over time in accordance with the expected pattern of risk emergence. Canada We entered the Canadian mortgage insurance market in 1995 and now operate in every province and territory. We are currently the leading private mortgage insurer in the Canadian market. The five largest mortgage originators in Canada provide the majority of the financing for residential mortgage financing in that country. Mortgages provided by these five lenders in Canada accounted for the majority of our flow new insurance written in 2010. In July 2009, Genworth MI Canada Inc. (Genworth Canada), our indirect subsidiary, completed the initial public offering (the Offering) of its common shares. Following completion of the Offering, we beneficially owned 57.5% of the common shares of Genworth Canada. In August 2010, Genworth Canada repurchased 12.3 million common shares through a substantial issuer bid. Brookfield Life Assurance Company Limited, our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, participated in the issuer bid by making a proportionate tender and continues to hold approximately 57.5% of the outstanding common shares of Genworth Canada. See note 24 in our consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations U.S. Mortgage Insurance. As of or for the years endedDecember 31, (Amounts in millions) 2010 2009 2008 Total revenues $ 754 $ 826 $ 851 Net operating loss available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders $ (580 ) $ (459 ) $ (330 ) Net investment gains (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments 21 32 (38 ) Net loss available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders $ (559 ) $ (427 ) $ (368 ) Total segment assets $ 3,875 $ 4,247 $ 3,978 21 Table of Contents Products and services The majority of our U.S. mortgage insurance policies provide default loss protection on a portion (typically 10% to 40%) of the balance of an individual mortgage loan. Our primary mortgage insurance policies are predominantly flow insurance policies, which cover individual loans at the time the loan is originated. We also enter into bulk insurance transactions with lenders and investors in selected instances, under which we insure a portfolio of loans for a negotiated price. In addition to flow and bulk primary mortgage insurance, we have written a limited amount of mortgage insurance on a pool basis. Under pool insurance, the mortgage insurer provides coverage on a group of specified loans, typically for 100% of all losses on every loan in the portfolio, subject to an agreed aggregate loss limit. Flow insurance Flow insurance is primary mortgage insurance placed on an individual loan when the loan is originated. Our primary mortgage insurance covers default risk on first mortgage loans generally secured by one to four unit residential properties and can be used to protect mortgage lenders and investors from default on any type of residential mortgage loan instrument that we have approved. Our insurance covers a specified coverage percentage of a claim amount consisting of unpaid loan principal, delinquent interest and certain expenses associated with the default and subsequent foreclosure. As the insurer, we are generally required to pay the coverage percentage of a claim amount specified in the primary policy, but we also have the option to pay the lender an amount equal to the unpaid loan principal, delinquent interest and certain expenses incurred with the default and foreclosure, and acquire title to the property. In addition, the claim amount may be reduced or eliminated if the loss on the defaulted loan is reduced as a result of the lenders disposition of the property. The lender selects the coverage percentage at the time the loan is originated, often to comply with investor requirements to reduce the loss exposure on loans purchased by the investor. Our master policies require that loans be underwritten to approved guidelines and provide for cancellation of coverage and return of premium for material breach of obligations. Our master policies generally do not extend to or cover material breach of obligations and misrepresentations known to the insured or specified agents. From time to time, based on various factors, we request loan files to verify compliance with our master policies and required procedures. Where our review and any related investigation establish material noncompliance or misrepresentation or there is a failure to deliver complete loan files as required, we rescind coverage with a return of all premiums paid. In connection with flow insurance, we perform fee based contract underwriting services for certain mortgage lenders. The provision of underwriting services by mortgage insurers eliminates the duplicative lender and mortgage insurer underwriting activities and speeds the approval process. Under the terms of our contract underwriting agreements, we agree to indemnify the lender against losses incurred in the event we make material errors in determining whether loans processed by our contract underwriters meet specified underwriting or purchase criteria, subject to contractual limitations on liability. In the United States, we have entered into a number of reinsurance agreements in which we share portions of our flow mortgage insurance risk written on loans originated or purchased by lenders with captive reinsurers affiliated with these lenders. In return, we cede a predetermined portion of our gross premiums on insurance written to the captive reinsurers. Substantially all of our captive mortgage reinsurance arrangements are structured on an excess of loss basis. In February 2008, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac announced a change to its eligibility rules limiting captive reinsurance arrangements to those where premiums ceded do not exceed 25% of gross premiums. As of December 31, 2010, our total mortgage insurance risk in force reinsured to all captive reinsurers was $1.4 billion, and the total capital held in trust for our benefit by all captive reinsurers was $0.8 billion. These captive reinsurers are not rated, and their claims paying obligations to us are secured by an amount of capital held in trust as determined by the underlying treaties. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we recorded a reinsurance recoverable of $351 million and $673 million, respectively, under these captive reinsurance arrangements. We have exhausted certain captive reinsurance tiers for our 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 book years based on worsening loss development trends. Once the captive reinsurance or trust assets are exhausted, we are 22 Table of Contents responsible for any additional losses incurred. We have begun to experience constraints on the recognition of captive benefit recovery due to the amount of funds held in certain captive trusts and the exhaustion of captive loss tiers for certain reinsurers. As of January 1, 2009, we no longer participate in excess of loss captive reinsurance transactions and we will only participate in quota share reinsurance arrangements. The majority of our excess of loss captive reinsurance arrangements are in runoff with no new books of business being added going forward; however, we will continue to benefit from captive reinsurance on our 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 books of business. New insurance written through the bulk channel generally is not subject to these arrangements. The following table sets forth selected financial information regarding our captive reinsurance arrangements as of or for the periods indicated: As of or for the years endedDecember 31, 2010 2009 2008 Flow risk in force subject to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of flow risk in force 44 % 51 % 55 % Primary risk in force subject to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of total primary risk in force 43 % 50 % 53 % Gross written premiums ceded pursuant to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of total gross written premiums 19 % 21 % 20 % Primary new risk written subject to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of total primary new risk written 3 % 3 % 33 % Bulk insurance Under primary bulk insurance, we insure a portfolio of loans in a single, bulk transaction. Generally, in our bulk insurance, the individual loans in the portfolio are insured to specified levels of coverage and there may be deductible provisions and aggregate loss limits applicable to all of the insured loans. In addition, loans that we insure in bulk transactions with loan to value ratios above 80% typically have flow mortgage insurance, written either by us or another private mortgage insurer, which helps mitigate our exposure under these transactions. We base the premium on our bulk insurance upon our evaluation of the overall risk of the insured loans included in a transaction and we negotiate the premium directly with the securitizer or other owner of the loans. Premiums for bulk transactions generally are paid monthly by lenders, investors or a securitization vehicle in connection with a securitization transaction or the sale of a loan portfolio. Prior to 2006, the majority of our bulk insurance business was related to loans financed by lenders who participated in the mortgage programs sponsored by the Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLBs). Beginning in 2006, we selectively increased our participation in the GSE low documentation, or Alt A, programs and began to provide bulk insurance on lender portfolios, a substantial portion of which was comprised of low loan to value and high FICO score payment option adjustable rate (POA) loans. The risk in force attributable to these newer books of business was substantially reduced in 2009 pursuant to agreements reached with the insured. In January 2010, we reached an agreement with a counterparty that further reduced our bulk insurance exposure, leaving a small portfolio related principally to the FHLBs. In addition, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) has issued an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking to implement provisions of the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd Frank Act) that require deletion of all references to credit rating agencies in federal rules and regulations. This would likely include rules that govern mortgage purchase programs of the FHLBs that require insurers for such programs to maintain AA ratings. To date, the FHLBs have waived this ratings requirement. However there can be no assurance that we will continue to be an eligible insurer for these programs once the FHFA program rules are revised. Pool insurance Pool insurance generally covers the loss on a defaulted mortgage loan that either exceeds the claim payment under the primary coverage (if primary insurance is required on that loan) or the total loss (if that loan does not 23 Table of Contents require primary insurance), in each case up to a stated aggregate loss limit on the pool. While in 2006 and 2005, we wrote a limited amount of pool insurance coverage policies, we are no longer actively writing pool insurance. Underwriting and pricing Loan applications for all loans we insure are reviewed to evaluate each individual borrowers credit strength and history, the characteristics of the loan and the value of the underlying property. Fair Isaac Company developed the FICO credit scoring model to calculate a score based upon a borrowers credit history. We use the FICO credit score as one indicator of a borrowers credit quality. Typically, a borrower with a higher credit score has a lower likelihood of defaulting on a loan. FICO credit scores range up to 850, with a score of 620 or more generally viewed as a prime loan and a score below 620 generally viewed as a sub prime loan. A minus loans generally are loans where the borrowers have FICO credit scores between 575 and 660, and where the borrower has a blemished credit history. As of December 31, 2010, on a risk in force basis, approximately 93% of our primary insurance loans were considered to be prime in credit quality with FICO credit scores of at least 620, approximately 5% had FICO credit scores between 575 and 619, and approximately 2% had FICO credit scores of 574 or less. Loan applications for flow mortgage insurance are reviewed by our employees directly as part of our traditional underwriting process or by our contract underwriters as we process mortgage loan applications requiring mortgage insurance. The majority of our mortgage lender customers underwrite loan applications for mortgage insurance under a delegated underwriting program, in which we permit approved lenders to commit us to insure loans using underwriting guidelines we have previously approved. When underwriting bulk insurance transactions, we evaluate credit scores and loan characteristics of the loans in the portfolio and examine loan files on a sample basis. Each bulk transaction is assigned an overall claim rate based on a weighted average of the expected claim rates for each individual loan that comprises the transaction. We previously offered mortgage insurance for Alt A loans, which were originated under programs in which there was a reduced level of verification or disclosure of the borrowers income or assets and a higher historical and expected default rate than standard documentation loans; Interest Only loans which allowed the borrower flexibility to pay interest only, or to pay interest and as much principal as desired, during an initial period of time; and POA mortgages, which typically provided four payment options that a borrower could select for the first five years of a loan. Beginning in the second half of 2007 and through 2009, however, we took specific and substantial underwriting and risk management actions to reduce our new business risk profile, including exiting certain products and types of coverages such as Alt A, Interest Only and POA loans, as well as changing prices, product levels and underwriting guidelines, to improve the performance of new business written. Our primary guideline actions during the fourth quarter of 2008 included adding incremental geographic locations to our declining market policy definition and changes in third party loan origination guidelines, including restrictions on delegated underwriting guidelines, as well as imposing tighter underwriting guidelines on lower credit and higher loan to value risks. Additionally, with increased refinancing activity, we also added new restrictions on FICO and debt to income ratios to better manage risk profiles and capital consumption from new production. We believe these and other underwriting and pricing actions benefited our underwriting results on these and future books of business and could have an adverse impact on our volume of new insurance written. As market conditions stabilized or improved in certain areas, we adjusted our approaches. For example, during 2010, we eliminated our targeted declining market policy, which among other things, prohibits us from providing coverage on loans with 90% loan to value and below even in areas of the U.S. housing market where such conditions have begun to stabilize or improve. We continue to monitor current housing conditions and the performance of our books of business to determine if we need to make further changes in our underwriting guidelines and practices. Loss mitigation We request loan files to verify compliance with our master policies. Where underwriting is performed in house, our master policy gives us the right to obtain a copy of the complete loan file for any insured loan. If no 24 Table of Contents file is produced in response to our request, the master policy provides that coverage may be canceled. If a file is delivered but lacks certain documents that are critical to demonstrating compliance with applicable underwriting standards (discussed below) or to our ability to investigate the loan for misrepresentation, we issue a follow up request and give the servicer an additional period of time (approximately 30 additional days) to produce the missing documents. If these documents are not received after the additional time period, the master policy provides that coverage may be canceled. Where underwriting is delegated to other counterparties under specified criteria, our master policy requires that an insured loan be underwritten in strict accordance with applicable guidelines. Where our file review finds material noncompliance with the underwriting requirements, the master policy provides that coverage may be canceled. The master policy also excludes coverage for fraud and misrepresentation, among other matters. Where our investigation establishes noncompliance or fraud or misrepresentation involving an agent of the lender, we invoke our rights by issuing a letter rescinding coverage on the loan. Following an action to rescind coverage on insured loan certificates, the insured counterparty has 60 days to appeal our decision to rescind such coverage through an appeals process. If an insured counterparty appeals our decision to rescind coverage on given loan certificates and we concur that new or additional information is sufficient for us to reinstate coverage, we take the necessary steps to reinstate uninterrupted insurance coverage and reactivate the loan certificate. If the parties are unable to resolve the dispute within the stated appeal period provided by us and such additional time as the parties may agree to, lenders may choose to pursue arbitration under the master policies and challenge the results. If arbitrated, ultimate resolution of the dispute would be pursuant to a panels binding arbitration award. Challenges to rescissions may be made several years after we have rescinded coverage on an insured loan certificate. Estimated savings related to rescissions are the reduction in carried loss reserves, net of premium refunds and reinstatement of prior rescissions. Estimated savings related to loan modifications and other cure related loss mitigation actions represent the reduction in carried loss reserves. For non cure related actions, including pre sales, the estimated savings represent the difference between the full claim obligation and the actual amount paid. If a loan certificate that was previously rescinded is reinstated and the underlying loan certificate remains delinquent, we re accrue any liabilities that were relieved in connection with our decision to rescind coverage on the loan certificate. Distribution We distribute our mortgage insurance products through our dedicated sales force throughout the United States. This sales force primarily markets to financial institutions and mortgage originators, which in turn offer mortgage insurance products to borrowers. In addition to our field sales force, we also distribute our products through a telephone sales force serving our smaller lenders, as well as through our Action Center which provides live phone and web chat based support for all customer segments. Competition We compete primarily with U.S. and state government agencies, other private mortgage insurers, mortgage lenders and other investors, the GSEs and, potentially, the FHLBs. We also compete, indirectly, with structured transactions in the capital markets and with other financial instruments designed to mitigate credit risk although this last category of competition has been reduced by the dynamics of the financial crisis. U.S. and state government agencies. We and other private mortgage insurers compete for flow business directly with U.S. federal and state governmental and quasi governmental agencies, principally the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and, to a lesser degree, the Veterans Administration (VA). In addition to competition from the FHA and the VA, we and other private mortgage insurers face competition from state supported mortgage insurance funds in several states, including California, Illinois and New York. 25 Table of Contents Private mortgage insurers. The private mortgage insurance industry is highly competitive and currently consists of eight mortgage insurers, excluding us. Mortgage lenders and other investors. We and other mortgage insurers compete with transactions structured by mortgage lenders to avoid mortgage insurance on low down payment mortgage loans. These transactions include self insuring and simultaneous second loans, which separate a mortgage with a loan to value ratio of more than 80%, which generally would require mortgage insurance, into two loans: a first mortgage with a loan to value ratio of 80% and a simultaneous second mortgage for the excess portion of the loan. The level of simultaneous second mortgages declined in 2009 and 2010 given the experience from the financial crisis. The GSEs Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and FHLBs. As the predominant purchasers of conventional mortgage loans in the United States, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac provide a direct link between mortgage origination and capital markets. As discussed above, most high loan to value mortgages purchased by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac are insured with private mortgage insurance issued by an insurer deemed qualified by the GSEs. Our U.S. mortgage insurance companies are permitted by the GSEs to operate as eligible insurers even though not all eligibility criteria may be met. Private mortgage insurers may be subject to competition from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to the extent the GSEs are compensated for assuming default risk that would otherwise be insured by the private mortgage insurance industry. On February 11, 2011, the Obama Administration issued a white paper setting forth various proposals to gradually eliminate Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. We cannot predict whether or when any proposals will be implemented, and if so in what form, nor can we predict the effect such proposals, if so implemented, would have on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We also compete with structured transactions in the capital markets and with other financial instruments designed to mitigate the risk of mortgage defaults, such as credit default swaps and credit linked notes, with lenders who forego mortgage insurance (self insure) on loans held in their portfolios, and with mortgage lenders who maintain captive mortgage insurance and reinsurance programs. Private mortgage insurers must satisfy requirements set by the GSEs to be eligible to insure loans sold to the GSEs, and the GSEs have the ability to implement new eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers. They also have the authority to change the pricing arrangements for purchasing retained participation mortgages as compared to insured mortgages, increase or reduce required mortgage insurance coverage percentages, and alter or liberalize underwriting standards and pricing terms on low down payment mortgages they purchase. In addition to the GSEs, FHLBs purchase single family conforming mortgage loans. Although not required to do so, the FHLBs currently use mortgage insurance on substantially all mortgage loans with a loan to value ratio above 80%. Corporate and Other Our Corporate and Other activities include debt financing expenses that are incurred at our holding company level, unallocated corporate income and expenses, eliminations of inter segment transactions, the results of non core businesses and non strategic products, including our institutional products, that are managed outside our operating segments. Our non strategic products include our institutional products and corporate owned life insurance product. Our institutional products consist of funding agreements, FABNs and GICs, which are deposit type products that pay a guaranteed return to the contractholder on specified dates. We manage the outstanding issuances from two FABN programs: a program registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) offered both to institutional and retail investors and a global medium term notes program sold to institutional investors both domestically and abroad. The registered notes program was discontinued in May 2009 and all SEC reporting obligations under the registered notes program were suspended. We are pursuing the issuance of our institutional products on an opportunistic basis in the current market environment. 26 Table of Contents International Operations Information regarding our international operations is presented in note 20 to the consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Investment and Derivative Instruments. Regulation Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and supervision. General Our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations. State insurance laws and regulations (Insurance Laws) regulate most aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and our U.S. insurers are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled and licensed. Our non U.S. insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled. Our insurance products, and thus our businesses, also are affected by U.S. federal, state and local tax laws, and the tax laws of non U.S. jurisdictions. Our securities operations, including our insurance products that are regulated as securities, such as variable annuities and variable life insurance, also are subject to U.S. federal and state and non U.S. securities laws and regulations. The SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), state securities authorities and similar non U.S. authorities regulate and supervise these products. The primary purpose of the Insurance Laws affecting our insurance and securities businesses and their equivalents in the other countries in which we operate, and the securities laws affecting our variable annuity products, variable life insurance products, registered FABNs, broker/dealers and advisory businesses, is to protect our policyholders, contractholders and clients, not our stockholders. These Insurance Laws are regularly re examined and any changes to these laws or new laws may be more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. In addition, insurance and securities regulatory authorities (including state law enforcement agencies and attorneys general or their non U.S. equivalents) periodically make inquiries regarding compliance with insurance, securities and other laws and regulations, and we cooperate with such inquiries and take corrective action when warranted. Our distributors and institutional customers also operate in regulated environments. Changes in the regulations that affect their operations may affect our business relationships with them and their decision to distribute or purchase our subsidiaries products. In addition, the Insurance Laws of our U.S. insurers domiciliary jurisdictions and the equivalent laws in the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada and certain other jurisdictions in which we operate require that a person obtain the approval of the applicable insurance regulator prior to acquiring control, and in some cases prior to 38 Table of Contents divesting its control, of an insurer. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent an investment in or a change of control involving us, or one or more of our regulated subsidiaries, including transactions that our management and some or all of our stockholders might consider desirable. U.S. Insurance Regulation Our U.S. insurers are licensed and regulated in all jurisdictions in which they conduct insurance business. The extent of this regulation varies, but Insurance Laws generally govern the financial condition of insurers, including standards of solvency, types and concentrations of permissible investments, establishment and maintenance of reserves, credit for reinsurance and requirements of capital adequacy, and the business conduct of insurers, including marketing and sales practices and claims handling. In addition, Insurance Laws usually require the licensing of insurers and agents, and the approval of policy forms, related materials and the rates for certain lines of insurance. The Insurance Laws applicable to us or our U.S. insurers are described below. Our U.S. mortgage insurers are also subject to additional insurance laws and regulations applicable specifically to mortgage insurers discussed below under Mortgage Insurance. Insurance holding company regulation All U.S. jurisdictions in which our U.S. insurers conduct business have enacted legislation requiring each U.S. insurer (except captive insurers) in a holding company system to register with the insurance regulatory authority of its domiciliary jurisdiction and furnish that regulatory authority various information concerning the operations of, and the interrelationships and transactions among, companies within its holding company system that may materially affect the operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the system. These Insurance Laws regulate transactions between insurers and their affiliates, sometimes mandating prior notice to the regulator and or regulatory approval. Generally, these Insurance Laws require that all transactions between an insurer and an affiliate be fair and reasonable, and that the insurers statutory surplus following such transaction be reasonable in relation to its outstanding liabilities and adequate to its financial needs. As a holding company with no significant business operations of our own, we depend on dividends or other distributions from our subsidiaries as the principal source of cash to meet our obligations, including the payment of interest on, and repayment of principal of, any debt obligations. Our U.S. insurers payment of dividends or other distributions is regulated by the Insurance Laws of their respective domiciliary states, and insurers may not pay an extraordinary dividend or distribution, or pay a dividend except out of earned surplus, without prior regulatory approval. In general, an extraordinary dividend or distribution is defined as a dividend or distribution that, together with other dividends and distributions made within the preceding 12 months, exceeds the greater (or, in some jurisdictions, the lesser) of: 10% of the insurers statutory surplus as of the immediately prior year end or the statutory net gain from the insurers operations (if a life insurer) or the statutory net income (if not a life insurer) during the prior calendar year. In addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of ordinary dividends or other payments by our insurers (such as a payment under a tax sharing agreement or for employment or other services) if they determine that such payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. The Insurance Laws of our U.S. insurers domiciliary jurisdictions require that a person obtain the approval of the insurance commissioner of an insurers domiciliary jurisdiction prior to acquiring control of such insurer. Control of an insurer is generally presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing, 10% or more of the voting securities of the insurer or its ultimate parent entity. In considering an application to acquire control of an insurer, the insurance commissioner 39 Table of Contents generally considers factors such as the experience, competence and financial strength of the applicant, the integrity of the applicants board of directors and executive officers, the acquirers plans for the management and operation of the insurer, and any anti competitive results that may arise from the acquisition. Some states require a person seeking to acquire control of an insurer licensed but not domiciled in that state to make a filing prior to completing an acquisition if the acquirer and its affiliates and the target insurer and its affiliates have specified market shares in the same lines of insurance in that state. These provisions may not require acquisition approval but can lead to imposition of conditions on an acquisition that could delay or prevent its consummation. The NAIC recently adopted significant changes to the insurance holding company act and regulations (the NAIC Amendments). The NAIC Amendments are designed to respond to perceived gaps in the regulation of insurance holding company systems in the United States. One of the major changes is a requirement that an insurance holding company systems ultimate controlling person submit annually to its lead state insurance regulator an enterprise risk report that identifies activities, circumstances or events involving one or more affiliates of an insurer that, if not remedied properly, are likely to have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition or liquidity of the insurer or its insurance holding company system as a whole. Other changes include requiring a controlling person to submit prior notice to its domiciliary insurance regulator of a divestiture of control, detailed minimum requirements for cost sharing and management agreements between an insurer and its affiliates and expansion of the agreements between an insurer and its affiliates to be filed with its domiciliary insurance regulator. The NAIC Amendments must be adopted by the individual state legislatures and insurance regulators in order to be effective. We cannot predict whether the NAIC Amendments will be adopted in whole or in part by these states or the impact, if any, these changes will have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Periodic reporting Our U.S. insurers must file reports, including detailed annual financial statements, with insurance regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction in which they do business, and their operations and accounts are subject to periodic examination by such authorities. Policy forms Our U.S. insurers policy forms are subject to regulation in every U.S. jurisdiction in which they transact insurance business. In most U.S. jurisdictions, policy forms must be filed prior to their use, and in some U.S. jurisdictions, forms must be approved prior to use. Market conduct regulation The Insurance Laws of U.S. jurisdictions govern the marketplace activities of insurers, affecting the form and content of disclosure to consumers, product illustrations, advertising, product replacement, sales and underwriting practices, and complaint and claims handling, and these provisions are generally enforced through periodic market conduct examinations. Statutory examinations Insurance departments in U.S. jurisdictions conduct periodic detailed examinations of the books, records, accounts and business practices of domestic insurers. These examinations generally are conducted in cooperation with insurance departments of two or three other states or jurisdictions representing each of the NAIC zones, under guidelines promulgated by the NAIC. Guaranty associations and similar arrangements Most jurisdictions in which our U.S. insurers are licensed require those insurers to participate in guaranty associations which pay contractual benefits owed under the policies of impaired or insolvent insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on each member insurer in a jurisdiction on the basis of 40 Table of Contents the proportionate share of the premiums written by such insurer in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. Some jurisdictions permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. Aggregate assessments levied against our U.S. insurers were not material to our consolidated financial statements. Policy and contract reserve sufficiency analysis The Insurance Laws of their domiciliary jurisdictions require our U.S. life insurers to conduct annual analyses of the sufficiency of their life and health insurance and annuity reserves. Other jurisdictions where insurers are licensed may have certain reserve requirements that differ from those of their domiciliary jurisdictions. In each case, a qualified actuary must submit an opinion stating that the aggregate statutory reserves, when considered in light of the assets held with respect to such reserves, make good and sufficient provision for the insurers associated contractual obligations and related expenses. If such an opinion cannot be provided, the insurer must establish additional reserves by transferring funds from surplus. Our U.S. life insurers submit these opinions annually to their insurance regulatory authorities. Different reserve requirements exist for our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries. See Reserves Mortgage Insurance. Surplus and capital requirements Insurance regulators have the discretionary authority, in connection with maintaining the licensing of our U.S. insurers, to limit or restrict insurers from issuing new policies, or policies having a dollar value over certain thresholds, if, in the regulators judgment, the insurer is not maintaining a sufficient amount of surplus or is in a hazardous financial condition. We seek to maintain new business and capital management strategies to support meeting related regulatory requirements. Risk based capital The NAIC has established Risk Based Capital (RBC) standards for U.S. life insurers, as well as a risk based capital model act (RBC Model Act). All 50 states and the District of Columbia have adopted the RBC Model Act or a substantially similar law or regulation. The RBC Model Act requires that life insurers annually submit a report to state regulators regarding their RBC based upon four categories of risk: asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate and market risk, and business risk. The capital requirement for each is generally determined by applying factors which vary based upon the degree of risk to various asset, premium and reserve items. The formula is an early warning tool to identify possible weakly capitalized companies for purposes of initiating further regulatory action. If an insurers RBC fell below specified levels, it would be subject to different degrees of regulatory action depending upon the level, ranging from requiring the insurer to propose actions to correct the capital deficiency to placing the insurer under regulatory control. As of December 31, 2010, the RBC of each of our U.S. life insurance subsidiaries exceeded the level of RBC that would require any of them to take or become subject to any corrective action. Statutory accounting principles U.S. insurance regulators developed statutory accounting principles (SAP) as a basis of accounting used to monitor and regulate the solvency of insurers. Since insurance regulators are primarily concerned with ensuring an insurers ability to pay its current and future obligations to policyholders, statutory accounting conservatively values the assets and liabilities of insurers, generally in accordance with standards specified by the insurers domiciliary jurisdiction. Uniform statutory accounting practices are established by the NAIC and are generally adopted by regulators in the various U.S. jurisdictions. Due to differences in methodology between SAP and U.S. GAAP, the values for assets, liabilities and equity reflected in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP are materially different from those reflected in financial statements prepared under SAP. 41 Table of Contents Regulation of investments Each of our U.S. insurers is subject to Insurance Laws that require diversification of its investment portfolio and which limit the proportion of investments in different asset categories. Assets invested contrary to such regulatory limitations must be treated as non admitted assets for purposes of measuring surplus, and, in some instances, regulations would require divestiture of such non complying investments. We believe the investments made by our U.S. insurers comply with these Insurance Laws. Federal regulation of insurance products Most of our variable annuity products, some of our fixed guaranteed products, and all of our variable life insurance products, as well as our FABNs issued as part of our registered notes program are securities within the meaning of federal and state securities laws, are registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and are subject to regulation by the SEC. These products may also be indirectly regulated by FINRA as a result of FINRAs regulation of broker/dealers and may be regulated by state securities authorities. Federal and state securities regulation similar to that discussed below under Securities Regulation affects investment advice and sales and related activities with respect to these products. In addition, although the federal government does not comprehensively regulate the business of insurance, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including taxation, financial services regulation, and pension and welfare benefits regulation, can also significantly affect the insurance industry. Dodd Frank Act and other federal initiatives Although the federal government generally does not directly regulate the insurance business, federal initiatives often, and increasingly, have an impact on the business in a variety of ways. From time to time, federal measures are proposed which may significantly affect the insurance business, including limitations on antitrust immunity, tax incentives for lifetime annuity payouts, simplification bills affecting tax advantaged or tax exempt savings and retirement vehicles, and proposals to modify or eliminate the estate tax. In addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of insurance have been proposed in recent years. In response to the recent financial crisis, the Dodd Frank Act was enacted and signed into law in July 2010. The Dodd Frank Act made extensive changes to the laws regulating financial services firms and requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations. Among other provisions, the Dodd Frank Act provides for a new framework of regulation of over the counter (OTC) derivatives markets. This will require us to clear certain types of transactions currently traded in the OTC derivative markets and may limit our ability to customize certain derivative transactions for our needs. In addition, we will likely experience additional collateral requirements and costs associated with derivative transactions. The Dodd Frank Act also authorizes the SEC to adopt regulations that could impose heightened standards of care on sellers of variable or other registered products, which could adversely affect sales of and reduce margins on these products. In the case of our U.S. mortgage insurance business, the Dodd Frank Act requires securitizers to retain some of the risk associated with mortgage loans they sell or securitize, unless the mortgage loans are qualified residential mortgages or unless the securitization or security is partially or fully exempted by regulations to be promulgated. The Dodd Frank Act provides that the definition of qualified residential mortgages will be determined by regulators, with consideration to be given, among other things, to the presence of mortgage insurance. The legislation also prohibits a creditor from making a residential mortgage loan unless the creditor makes a reasonable and good faith determination that, at the time the loan is consummated, the consumer has a reasonable ability to repay the loan. These provisions will be clarified in federal rules and regulations to be adopted. In addition, the Dodd Frank Act creates a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, which regulates certain aspects of the offering and provision of consumer financial products or services but not the business of insurance. This Bureau may issue rules or regulations that indirectly affect our mortgage insurance business. 42 Table of Contents The Dodd Frank Act also establishes a Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC), which is authorized to subject non bank financial companies deemed systemically significant to stricter prudential standards and other requirements and to subject such companies to a special orderly liquidation process outside the federal Bankruptcy Code, administered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; insurance company subsidiaries would remain subject to liquidation and rehabilitation proceedings under state law, although the FSOC is authorized to direct that such a proceeding be commenced against the insurer under state law. In addition, the Dodd Frank Act establishes a Federal Insurance Office within the Department of the Treasury. While not having a general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the director of this office will perform various functions with respect to insurance, including serving as a non voting member of the FSOC and making recommendations to the FSOC regarding insurers to be designated for more stringent regulation. The director is also required to conduct a study on how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the United States, including by increasing national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states. Federal agencies have been given significant discretion in drafting the rules and regulations that will implement the Dodd Frank Act. In addition, this legislation mandated multiple studies and reports for Congress, which could in some cases result in additional legislative or regulatory action. We cannot predict the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted under the Dodd Frank Act or any such additional legislation, the affect such legislation or regulations will have on financial markets generally, or on our businesses specifically, the additional costs associated with compliance with such regulations or legislation, or any changes to our operations that may be necessary to comply with the Dodd Frank Act, any of which could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We also cannot predict whether other federal initiatives will be adopted or what impact, if any, such initiatives, if adopted as laws, may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in tax laws Changes in tax laws could make some of our products more or less attractive to consumers. For example, the federal estate tax exclusion amount was recently increased to $5 million by the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010. The legislation also permits a surviving spouse to succeed to any unused federal estate tax exclusion amount of the deceased spouse. This permits the beneficiary of a survivorship life policy to receive a larger death benefit free of estate tax on the second spouses death than would have been allowed under prior law, potentially making such policies more attractive to affluent customers. However, since the estate tax exclusion had been $3.5 million in 2009, and our policyholders are generally not high net worth individuals who would be subject to the estate tax, we believe that these developments will have little effect on current sales of life insurance. The scheduled reversion of individual income tax, dividend and capital gain rates to previous levels in tax years after 2010 was put on hold for two years, delaying to at least 2013 any incentive provided by rising tax rates for investors to buy our fixed deferred annuity products. The one year extension of the treatment of mortgage insurance premiums as generally deductible qualified residence interest continues to make that product more affordable by moderate income homeowners. U.K. Insurance Regulation General Insurance and reinsurance businesses in the United Kingdom are subject to regulation by the Financial Services Authority (FSA), which has authorized certain of our U.K. subsidiaries to effect and carry out contracts of insurance in the United Kingdom. Insurers authorized by the FSA in the United Kingdom are generally able to operate throughout the European Union, subject to satisfying certain FSA requirements and, in some cases, additional local regulatory provisions. Certain of our U.K. subsidiaries operate in other European Union member states through establishment of branch offices. 43 Table of Contents Supervision The FSA has adopted a risk based approach to the supervision of insurers whereby it periodically performs a formal risk assessment of insurance companies or groups conducting business in the United Kingdom. After each risk assessment, the FSA will inform the insurer of its views on the insurers risk profile, including details of remedial action the FSA requires and the likely consequences of not taking such actions. The FSA also supervises the management of insurance companies through the approved persons regime, which subjects to FSA approval any person who performs certain specified controlled functions for or in relation to a regulated entity. In addition, the FSA supervises the sale of general insurance, including certain lifestyle protection and mortgage insurance products. Under FSA rules, persons involved in the sale of general insurance (including insurers and distributors) are prohibited from offering or accepting any inducement in connection with the sale of general insurance that is likely to conflict materially with their duties to insureds. Although the rules do not generally require disclosure of broker compensation, the insurer or distributor must disclose broker compensation at the insureds request. Solvency requirements Under FSA rules, insurers must maintain a minimum amount of capital resources for solvency purposes at all times, the calculation of which depends on the type, amount and claims history of the insurer. Failure to maintain the required minimum amount of capital resources is one of the grounds on which the FSA may exercise its wide powers of intervention. In addition, an insurer that is part of a group is required to perform and submit to the FSA a capital resources calculation return in respect of the following: The solvency capital resources available to the U.K. insurers European group defined by reference to the U.K. insurers ultimate parent company domiciled in the European Economic Area. The solvency capital resources available to the U.K. insurers worldwide group defined by reference to the U.K. insurers ultimate parent company. This requirement is only a reporting requirement. There will be fundamental changes to the existing solvency capital regime for all insurers and reinsurers operating in Europe as a result of the introduction of the Solvency II directive. Currently, these changes are expected to be effective in 2013. At this stage, it is not possible to predict the impact these changes will have on our operations. Restrictions on dividend payments The U.K. Companies Act 2006 prohibits U.K. companies from making a distribution such as a dividend to their stockholders unless they have profits available for distribution, the determination of which is based on the companys audited accumulated realized profits (so far as not previously utilized by distribution) less its accumulated realized losses (so far as not previously written off). Intervention and enforcement The FSA has extensive powers to intervene in the affairs of an insurer or authorized person and has the power, among other things, to enforce and take disciplinary measures in respect of, breaches of its rules. Such powers include the power to vary or withdraw any authorizations. 44 Table of Contents Mortgage Insurance State regulation General Mortgage insurers generally are limited by Insurance Laws to writing mortgage insurance business exclusively, prohibiting our mortgage insurers from directly writing other types of insurance. Mortgage insurers are not subject to the NAICs RBC requirements but are subject to other capital requirements placed directly on mortgage insurers. Generally, mortgage insurers are required by certain states and other regulators to maintain a risk to capital ratio not to exceed 25:1. As of December 31, 2010, none of our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries had a risk to capital ratio in excess of 25:1. North Carolina law grants discretion to the Commissioner of the North Carolina Department of Insurance (NCDOI), which is the domiciliary insurance regulator for our U.S. mortgage insurers, through mid 2015 to allow a mortgage insurer to exceed the 25:1 requirement if the Commissioner finds that such insurers contingency reserves and surplus are reasonable in relationship to its aggregate insured risk and adequate to its financial needs, taking into account a number of specified factors. Similar legislative or regulatory initiatives have been proposed or enacted in a number of other states that impose a similar risk to capital requirement on mortgage insurers. As of January 31, 2011, our primary U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiary, Genworth Mortgage Insurance Corporation (GEMICO), slightly exceeded the 25:1 risk to capital requirement. However, GEMICO was granted a revocable two year risk to capital waiver, effective January 31, 2011, by the NCDOI. The waiver, which the NCDOI can modify or terminate at its discretion, gives GEMICO the ability to continue to write new business in North Carolina during the period covered by the waiver, notwithstanding that GEMICOs risk to capital ratio exceeds 25:1. Given that the NCDOI is GEMICOs domiciliary insurance regulator, the effect of the waiver similarly extends to the 34 states that do not have their own risk to capital requirements, thereby enabling GEMICO to continue to write business in those states so long as it is permitted to do so in North Carolina under the NCDOIs waiver or because its risk to capital ratio decreases below 25:1. Further, so as to be able to write new business out of GEMICO in the remaining states which do have separate minimum risk to capital requirements, we are also pursuing similar waivers of the risk to capital requirement with other state regulators where the authority to grant a waiver exists. In addition to the NCDOIs waiver, to date, four states have granted us the authority to continue to write business in their state either by a waiver or an administrative no action letter. Consequently, while we seek additional state waivers, GEMICO remains authorized to write new business in 39 states. In anticipation of the possibility that GEMICO would breach its risk to capital requirements and a required waiver might not yet be granted, ultimately approved or maintained in force, we took all requisite steps to enable another of our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries, Genworth Residential Mortgage Insurance Corporation of North Carolina (GRMIC NC), to write new business in lieu of GEMICO and have begun to do so in any state where GEMICO is restricted due to its breach of its 25:1 risk to capital requirements and where no waiver has been granted. In this regard, while GRMIC NC currently is considered an eligible insurer by the GSEs, that status, with respect to our plans to utilize GRMIC NC in lieu of GEMICO, is subject to a number of conditions and currently is limited in duration. Further, in order to separately provide us with flexibility to write new business, we are positioning another of our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries, Genworth Residential Mortgage Assurance Corporation (GRMAC), to write new business. In this regard, the NCDOI approved our filing to fully activate GRMAC, subject to certain conditions, but recently imposed the additional requirement that we must obtain a further approval from the NCDOI before GEMICO can complete all necessary steps, including capitalization of GRMAC by GEMICO, in order to implement this plan. We continue to work with the NCDOI and the GSEs to obtain approval for GRMAC. Reserves Insurance Laws require our U.S. mortgage insurers to establish a special statutory contingency reserve in their statutory financial statements to provide for losses in the event of significant economic declines. Annual additions to the statutory contingency reserve must equal 50% of net earned premiums as defined by Insurance Laws. These contingency reserves generally are held until the earlier of (i) the time that loss ratios exceed 35% or 45 Table of Contents (ii) ten years, although regulators have granted discretionary releases from time to time. The statutory contingency reserve for our U.S. mortgage insurers was approximately $91 million as of December 31, 2010. This reserve reduces the policyholder surplus of our U.S. mortgage insurers, and therefore, their ability to pay dividends to us. Federal regulation In addition to federal laws that directly affect mortgage insurers, private mortgage insurers are affected indirectly by federal legislation and regulation affecting mortgage originators and lenders, by purchasers of mortgage loans such as Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, and by governmental insurers such as the FHA and VA. For example, changes in federal housing legislation and other laws and regulations that affect the demand for private mortgage insurance may have a material effect on private mortgage insurers. Legislation or regulation that increases the number of people eligible for FHA or VA mortgages could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to compete with the FHA or VA. The Homeowners Protection Act provides for the automatic termination, or cancellation upon a borrowers request, of private mortgage insurance upon satisfaction of certain conditions. The Homeowners Protection Act applies to owner occupied residential mortgage loans regardless of lien priority and to borrower paid mortgage insurance closed after July 29, 1999. FHA loans are not covered by the Homeowners Protection Act. Under the Homeowners Protection Act, automatic termination of mortgage insurance would generally occur once the loan to value ratio reaches 78%. A borrower generally may request cancellation of mortgage insurance once the actual payments reduce the loan balance to 80% of the homes original value. For borrower initiated cancellation of mortgage insurance, the borrower must have a good payment history as defined by the Homeowners Protection Act. The Real Estate Settlement and Procedures Act of 1974 (RESPA) applies to most residential mortgages insured by private mortgage insurers. Mortgage insurance has been considered in some cases to be a settlement service for purposes of loans subject to RESPA. Subject to limited exceptions, RESPA precludes us from providing services to mortgage lenders free of charge, charging fees for services that are lower than their reasonable or fair market value, and paying fees for services that others provide that are higher than their reasonable or fair market value. In addition, RESPA prohibits persons from giving or accepting any portion or percentage of a charge for a real estate settlement service, other than for services actually performed. Although many states prohibit mortgage insurers from giving rebates, RESPA has been interpreted to cover many non fee services as well. Mortgage insurers and their customers are subject to the possible sanctions of this law, which may be enforced by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Administration (HUD), state insurance departments, state attorneys general and other enforcement authorities. The Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA) and the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) also affect the business of mortgage insurance in various ways. ECOA, for example, prohibits discrimination against certain protected classes in credit transactions. FCRA governs the access and use of consumer credit information in credit transactions and requires notices to consumers in certain circumstances. Most originators of mortgage loans are required to collect and report data relating to a mortgage loan applicants race, nationality, gender, marital status and census tract to HUD or the Federal Reserve under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 (HMDA). The purpose of HMDA is to detect possible impermissible discrimination in home lending and, through disclosure, to discourage such discrimination. Mortgage insurers are not required to report HMDA data although, under the laws of several states, mortgage insurers currently are prohibited from discriminating on the basis of certain classifications. Mortgage insurers have, through Mortgage Insurance Companies of America, entered voluntarily into an agreement with the Federal Financial Institutions Examinations Council to report the same data on loans submitted for insurance as is required for most mortgage lenders under HMDA. 46 Table of Contents International regulation Canada The Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions (OSFI) provides oversight to all federally incorporated financial institutions, including our Canadian mortgage insurance company, Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Company Canada, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Genworth Canada. OSFI does not have enforcement powers over market conduct issues in the insurance industry, which are a provincial responsibility. The Federal Bank Act, Insurance Companies Act and Trust and Loan Companies Act prohibit Canadian banks, trust companies and insurers from extending mortgage loans where the loan value exceeds 80% of the propertys value, unless mortgage insurance is obtained in connection with the loan. As a result, all mortgages issued by these financial institutions with a loan to value ratio exceeding 80% must be insured by a qualified insurer or CMHC. Legislation became effective in Canada in 2010 that, among other things, amended these statutes to prohibit such financial institutions from charging borrowers amounts for mortgage insurance that exceed the lenders actual costs and impose new disclosure obligations in respect of mortgage insurance. The Government Guarantee Agreement in place with the Canadian government guarantees the benefits payable under mortgage insurance policies, less 10% of the original principal amount of an insured loan, in the event that we fail to make claim payments with respect to that loan because of insolvency. We pay the Canadian government a risk premium for this guarantee and make other payments to a reserve fund in respect of the governments obligation. Because banks are not required to maintain regulatory capital on an asset backed by a sovereign guarantee, our 90% sovereign guarantee permits lenders purchasing our mortgage insurance to reduce their regulatory capital charges for credit risks on mortgages by 90%. In addition to recent amendments made to the Government Guarantee Agreement, the Canadian Department of Finance has informed us that they intend to continue to review the Government Guarantee Agreement we have with the Canadian government and we remain engaged in ongoing discussions with Department of Finance officials on this matter. The Insurance Companies Act of Canada provides that dividends may only be declared by the board of directors of the Canadian insurer and paid if there are reasonable grounds to believe that the payment of the dividend would not cause the insurer to be in violation of its minimum capital and liquidity requirements. Also, we are required to notify OSFI at least 15 days prior to the dividend payment date. The legislative requirement in Canada to obtain mortgage insurance on high loan to value mortgages and the favorable capital treatment given to financial institutions because of our 90% sovereign guarantee effectively preclude these financial institutions from issuing simultaneous second mortgage products similar to those offered in the United States. As a public company that is traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange (the TMX), Genworth Canada is subject to securities laws and regulation in each province in Canada, as well as the reporting requirements of the TMX. Australia APRA regulates all financial institutions in Australia, including life, general and mortgage insurance companies. APRAs license conditions require Australian mortgage insurers to be monoline insurers, which are insurers offering just one type of insurance product. APRAs regulations apply to individual licensed insurers and to the relevant Australian based holding company and group. APRA also sets minimum capital levels and monitors corporate governance requirements, including our risk management strategy. In this regard, APRA reviews our management, controls, processes, reporting and methods by which all risks are managed, including an annual financial review and an annual review of insurance liabilities by an approved actuary. APRA also annually requires us to submit our risk management and reinsurance management strategy, which outlines our use of reinsurance in Australia. 47 Table of Contents In setting minimum capital levels for mortgage insurers, APRA requires them to assure they have sufficient capital to withstand a hypothetical three year stress loss scenario defined by APRA. These regulations increase mortgage insurers capital requirements for insured loans that are considered to be non standard. APRA also imposes quarterly reporting obligations on mortgage insurers with respect to risk profiles, reinsurance arrangements and financial position. During 2010, APRA issued detailed proposals to revise the capital requirements for all insurers it regulates. APRA is currently revising its original proposals following receipt of feedback from the industry. Publication of the new capital requirement regulations is expected sometime in 2011 with an effective date in 2013. We are currently unable to determine the impact that these new regulations will have on our regulatory capital requirements. In addition, APRA determines the capital requirements for depository institutions and provides for reduced capital requirements for certain depository institutions that insure residential mortgages with an acceptable mortgage insurer for all non standard mortgages and for standard mortgages with loan to value ratios above 80%. APRAs regulations currently set out a number of circumstances in which a loan may be considered to be non standard from a depository institutions perspective. APRA rules also provide that LMI on a non performing loan (90 days plus arrears) protects most depository institutions from having to increase the regulatory capital on the loan to a risk weighting of 100%. These regulations include a definition of an acceptable mortgage insurer and eliminate the reduced capital requirements for depository institutions in the event that the mortgage insurer has contractual recourse to the depository institution or a member of the depository institutions consolidated group. In December 2010, the Australian government announced a series of banking reforms designed to promote greater competition in the Australian banking industry. One key aspect of the proposals involved boosting consumer flexibility to transfer deposits and mortgages. In particular, the Australian government announced that it would instruct the Australian treasury department to accelerate the development of potential frameworks to transfer LMI policies between lenders and introduce a central registry for mortgages. Currently, LMI policies are not transportable between lenders and are issued to a particular lender in respect of a particular loan. In our Australian mortgage insurance business, we offer rebate options to lenders whereby up to 40% of the premium is refunded to the consumer if the loan is discharged in the first year, decreasing to 20% in the second year of the mortgage, although many lenders elect to take a non refundable option in order to receive a lower overall premium structure. We cannot predict the outcome of the proposed reforms and there is risk that any such reforms, in the area of transferability of mortgages and LMI, may impact our financial returns and profitability. APRA has the power to impose restrictions on our ability to declare and pay dividends based on a number of factors, including the impact on our minimum regulatory capital ratio. United Kingdom and Europe The United Kingdom is a member of the European Union and applies the harmonized system of regulation set out in the European Union directives. Our authorization to provide mortgage insurance in the United Kingdom enables us to offer our products in all the European Union member states, subject to certain regulatory requirements of the FSA and, in some cases, local regulatory requirements. We can provide mortgage insurance only in the classes for which we have authorization under applicable regulations and must maintain required risk and capital reserves. We are also subject to the oversight of other regulatory agencies in other countries throughout Europe where we do business. For more information about U.K. insurance regulation that affects our mortgage subsidiaries that operate in the United Kingdom, see U.K. Insurance Regulation. Other Non U.S. Insurance Regulation We operate in a number of countries around the world in addition to the United States, Canada, Australia and the United Kingdom, including Mexico, Guernsey and Bermuda. Generally, our subsidiaries (and in some 48 Table of Contents cases our branches) conducting business in these countries must obtain licenses from local regulatory authorities and satisfy local regulatory requirements, including those relating to rates, forms, capital, reserves and financial reporting. Other Laws and Regulations Securities regulation Certain of our U.S. subsidiaries and certain policies, contracts and services offered by them, are subject to regulation under federal and state securities laws and regulations of the SEC, state securities regulators and FINRA. Certain of our U.S. subsidiaries are investment advisors registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 or applicable state securities laws. Certain of their employees are licensed as investment advisory representatives in states as required by state law. Two of our U.S. investment adviser subsidiaries manage investment companies that are registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940. In addition, most of our insurance company separate accounts are registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Most of our variable annuity contracts and all of our variable life insurance policies, as well as our FABNs issued by one of our U.S. subsidiaries as part of our registered notes program are registered under the Securities Act of 1933. Certain of our U.S. subsidiaries are registered and regulated as broker/dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and are members of, and subject to regulation by FINRA, as well as by various state and local regulators. The registered representatives of our broker/dealers are also regulated by the SEC and FINRA and are subject to applicable state and local laws. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities markets and generally grant supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. In such event, the possible sanctions that may be imposed include suspension of individual employees, limitations on the activities in which the investment adviser or broker/dealer may engage, suspension or revocation of the investment adviser or broker/ dealer registration, censure or fines. We may also be subject to similar laws and regulations in the states and other countries in which we provide investment advisory services, offer the products described above or conduct other securities related activities. Certain of our U.S. subsidiaries also sponsor and manage investment vehicles that rely on certain exemptions from registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the Securities Act of 1933. Nevertheless, certain provisions of the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the Securities Act of 1933 apply to these investment vehicles and the securities issued by such vehicles in certain circumstances. The Investment Company Act of 1940, the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Securities Act of 1933, including the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, are subject to change, which may affect our U.S. subsidiaries that sponsor and manage such investment vehicles. The SEC, FINRA, state attorneys general, other federal offices and the New York Stock Exchange may conduct periodic examinations, in addition to special or targeted examinations of us and or specific products. These examinations or inquiries may include, but are not necessarily limited to, product disclosures and sales issues, financial and accounting disclosure and operational issues. Often examinations are sweep exams whereby the regulator reviews current issues facing the financial or insurance industry as a whole. Reverse mortgage regulation Genworth Financial Home Equity Access, Inc. (GFHEA), our wholly owned subsidiary, is an originator of reverse mortgage loans. GFHEA is subject to various federal and state laws and regulations including mortgage banking laws and regulations (Mortgage Banking Laws), as well as other federal and state laws and regulations protecting privacy and other consumer rights. GFHEA is regulated by the mortgage banking departments of the states in which it is licensed, as well as the FHA with respect to loans insured through HUD. In addition, mortgage banking authorities (including state law enforcement agencies and attorneys general) increasingly make inquiries regarding compliance with Mortgage Banking Laws and other applicable laws and 49 Table of Contents regulations, and we cooperate with such inquiries and take corrective action when warranted. HUD conducts periodic, detailed examinations of the loans and business practices of issuers of reverse mortgage loans it insures. Environmental considerations As an owner and operator of real property, we are subject to extensive U.S. federal and state and non U.S. environmental laws and regulations. Potential environmental liabilities and costs in connection with any required remediation of such properties is also an inherent risk in property ownership and operation. In addition, we hold equity interests in companies, and have made loans secured by properties, that could potentially be subject to environmental liabilities. We routinely have environmental assessments performed with respect to real estate being acquired for investment and real property to be acquired through foreclosure. We cannot provide assurance that unexpected environmental liabilities will not arise. However, based upon information currently available to us, we believe that any costs associated with compliance with environmental laws and regulations or any remediation of such properties will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. ERISA considerations We provide certain products and services to employee benefit plans that are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) or the Internal Revenue Code. As such, our activities are subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code, including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries, and fiduciaries may not cause or permit a covered plan to engage in certain prohibited transactions with persons who have certain relationships with respect to such plans. The applicable provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code are subject to enforcement by the U.S. Department of Labor, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. USA PATRIOT Act The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the Patriot Act), enacted in response to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, contains anti money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various new regulations applicable to broker/dealers and other financial services companies including insurance companies. The Patriot Act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties who may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. Anti money laundering laws outside of the United States contain similar provisions. The increased obligations of financial institutions to identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and share information with other financial institutions, require the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls. We believe that we have implemented, and that we maintain, appropriate internal practices, procedures and controls to enable us to comply with the provisions of the Patriot Act. Certain additional requirements became applicable under the Patriot Act in May 2006 through a U.S. Treasury regulation which required that certain insurers have anti money laundering compliance plans in place. We believe our internal practices, procedures and controls comply with these requirements. Privacy of consumer information U.S. federal and state laws and regulations require financial institutions, including insurance companies, to protect the security and confidentiality of consumer financial information and to notify consumers about the companies policies and practices relating to their collection and disclosure of consumer information and their policies relating to protecting the security and confidentiality of that information. Similarly, federal and state laws and regulations also govern the disclosure and security of consumer health information. In particular, regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the Federal Trade Commission regulate the disclosure and use of protected health information by health insurers and others, the 50 Table of Contents physical and procedural safeguards employed to protect the security of that information, including certain notice requirements in the event of security breaches, and the electronic transmission of such information. Congress and state legislatures are expected to consider additional legislation relating to privacy and other aspects of consumer information. In Europe, the collection and use of personal information is subject to strict regulation. The European Unions Data Protection Directive establishes a series of privacy requirements that European Union member states are obliged to enact into their national legislation. Certain European Union countries have additional national law requirements regarding the use of private data. Other European countries that are not European Union member states have similar privacy requirements in their national laws. These requirements generally apply to all businesses, including insurance companies. In general, companies may process personal information only if consent has been obtained from the individuals concerned or if certain other conditions are met. These other requirements include the provision of notice to customers and other persons concerning how their personal information is used and disclosed, limitations on the transfer of personal information to countries outside the European Union, registration with the national privacy authorities, where applicable, and the use of appropriate information security measures against the access or use of personal information by unauthorized persons. Similar laws and regulations protecting the security and confidentiality of consumer and financial information are also in effect in Canada, Australia and other countries in which we operate. Employees As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately 6,500 full time and part time employees. We believe our employee relations are satisfactory. Directors and Executive Officers See Part III, Item 10 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for information about our directors and executive officers. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available, without charge, on our website, www.genworth.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports with the SEC. Our SEC filings are also accessible through the Internet on the SECs web site at www.sec.gov. Copies are also available, without charge, from Genworth Investor Relations, 6620 West Broad Street, Richmond, VA 23230. Our website also includes the charters of our Audit Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Legal and Public Affairs Committee, and Management Development and Compensation Committee, any key practices of these committees, our Governance Principles, and our companys code of ethics. Copies of these materials also are available, without charge, from Genworth Investor Relations, at the above address. Within the time period required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, we will post on our website any amendment to our code of ethics and any waiver applicable to any of our directors, executive officers or senior financial officers. On May 27, 2010, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer certified to the New York Stock Exchange that he was not aware of any violation by us of the New York Stock Exchanges corporate governance listing standards. Transfer Agent and Registrar Our Transfer Agent and Registrar is The Bank of New York Mellon Shareowner Services, P.O. Box 358015, Pittsburgh, PA 15252 8015. Telephone: 866 229 8413; 201 680 6578 (outside the United States and Canada may call collect); and 800 231 5469 (for hearing impaired). 51 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks. These risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our common stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward looking statements made by us or on our behalf. These risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under Cautionary note regarding forward looking statements and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2010. Risks Relating to Our Businesses Downturns and volatility in global economies and equity and credit markets could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our results of operations are materially affected by the state of the global economies in which we operate and conditions in the capital markets we access. Factors such as higher unemployment, lower consumer spending, lower business investment, higher government spending, the volatility and strength of the global capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. The recessionary state and the volatility of many economies have fueled uncertainty and downturns in global mortgage markets have contributed to increased volatility in our business and results of operations. This uncertainty and volatility has impacted, and may continue to impact, the demand for certain financial and insurance products. As a result, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies, and some of our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. If domestic and international equity and credit markets experience heightened volatility and turmoil, issuers that have exposure to the mortgage and credit markets would be particularly affected. These events would have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have exposure to such issuers in our investment portfolio and also because such events can influence customer behavior. In addition, given continuing economic challenges, issuers of the fixed income securities and commercial mortgage loans that we own may default on principal and interest payments and we could experience significant declines in the value of our investment portfolio. Securities that are less liquid could also become more difficult to value and could be hard to dispose of in this economic environment. The economic downturn has had, and continues to have, an adverse effect on our ability to efficiently access capital markets for capital management purposes, including the issuance of fixed and floating rate non recourse funding obligations for purposes of supporting our term and universal life insurance products. If credit markets remain tight, this could have a continuing adverse impact on our profitability, liquidity and access to funding opportunities. Downturns and volatility in equity markets may also cause some existing customers to withdraw cash values or reduce investments in our separate account products, which include variable annuities. In addition, if the performance of the underlying mutual funds in the separate account products experience downturns and volatility for an extended period of time, the payment of any living benefit guarantee available in certain variable annuity products may have an adverse effect on us, because more payments will be required to come from general account assets than from contractholder separate account investments. Continued equity market volatility could result in additional losses in our variable annuity products and associated hedging program which will further challenge our ability to recover deferred acquisition costs (DAC) on these products and could lead to additional write offs of DAC, as well as increased hedging costs. Our revenues and returns from our mutual fund wrapped and separately managed account products and services could also be impacted by downturns and volatility in equity markets. Because these products and services generate fees generally from the value of assets under management, a decline in the equity markets 52 Table of Contents could reduce our revenues by reducing the value of the investment assets we manage. Downturns in equity markets could also lead to an increase in liabilities associated with secondary guarantee features, such as guaranteed minimum benefits on separate account products, where we have equity market risk exposure. A downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Financial strength ratings, which various rating agencies publish as measures of an insurance companys ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in our products, the ability to market our products and our competitive position. Credit ratings, which rating agencies publish as measures of an entitys ability to repay its indebtedness, are important to our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt and to the cost of such financing. A ratings downgrade could occur for a variety of reasons, including reasons specifically related to our company, generally related to our industry or the broader financial services industry or as a result of changes by the rating agencies in their methodologies or rating criteria. A negative outlook on our ratings or a downgrade in any of our financial strength or credit ratings, the announcement of a potential downgrade, or customer concerns about the possibility of a downgrade, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These direct or indirect effects could include: reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products; requiring us to modify some of our existing products or services to remain competitive, or introduce new products or services; adversely affecting our relationships with key distributors, independent sales intermediaries and our dedicated sales specialists, including the loss of exclusivity under certain agreements with our independent sales intermediaries; materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders; requiring us to post additional collateral or terminate contracts under the terms of agreements with derivative counterparties, or to provide support in the form of collateral, capital contributions or letters of credit under the terms of certain of our reinsurance, securitization and other agreements; adversely affecting our ability to maintain reinsurance assumed or obtain new reinsurance or obtain it on reasonable pricing terms; adversely affecting our ability to raise capital; and increasing our cost of borrowing. In addition, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac require maintenance of a financial strength rating by at least two out of three listed rating agencies (S&P, Fitch and Moodys) of at least AA /Aa3 (as applicable); otherwise additional limitations or requirements may be in the case of Fannie Mae or will be in the case of Freddie Mac imposed for eligibility to insure loans purchased by the GSEs. In February 2008, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac temporarily suspended their ratings requirements for top tier mortgage insurers, subject to submission of an acceptable remediation plan. We have submitted remediation plans to both GSEs and to date have not been advised that either intends to impose additional requirements upon us. As of December 31, 2010, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac purchased the majority of the flow loans we insured in the United States. An inability to insure mortgage loans sold to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, or their transfer of our existing policies to an alternative mortgage insurer, would have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Interest rate fluctuations and levels could adversely affect our business and profitability. Our insurance and investment products are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations and expose us to the risk that falling interest rates or credit spreads will reduce our margin or the difference between the returns we earn 53 Table of Contents on the investments that support our obligations under these products and the amounts that we must pay to policyholders and contractholders. Because we may reduce the interest rates we credit on most of these products only at limited, pre established intervals, and because some contracts have guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates, declines in interest rates have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the profitability of these products. During periods of increasing market interest rates, we may offer higher crediting rates on interest sensitive products, such as universal life insurance and fixed annuities, and we may increase crediting rates on in force products to keep these products competitive. In addition, rapidly rising interest rates may cause increased policy surrenders, withdrawals from life insurance policies and annuity contracts and requests for policy loans, as policyholders and contractholders shift assets into higher yielding investments. Increases in crediting rates, as well as surrenders and withdrawals, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our life and long term care insurance products also expose us to the risk of interest rate fluctuations. The pricing and expected future profitability of these products are based in part on expected investment returns. Over time, life and long term care insurance products generally produce positive cash flows as customers pay periodic premiums, which we invest as they are received. Low interest rates reduce our ability to achieve our targeted investment margins and may adversely affect the profitability of our life and long term care insurance products. In both the U.S. and international mortgage markets, rising interest rates generally reduce the volume of new mortgage originations. A decline in the volume of new mortgage originations would have an adverse effect on our new mortgage insurance written. Rising interest rates also can increase the monthly mortgage payments for insured homeowners with adjustable rate mortgages (ARMs) that could have the effect of increasing default rates on ARM loans and thereby increasing our exposure on our mortgage insurance policies. This is particularly relevant in our international mortgage insurance business where ARMs are the predominant mortgage product. Declining interest rates historically have increased the rate at which borrowers refinance their existing mortgages, thereby resulting in cancellations of the mortgage insurance covering the refinanced loans. Declining interest rates historically also have contributed to home price appreciation, which may provide borrowers in the United States with the option of cancelling their mortgage insurance coverage earlier than we anticipated when pricing that coverage. These cancellations could have an adverse effect on our results from our U.S. mortgage insurance business. However, under current housing market conditions, we are in a period of home price depreciation in a majority of markets. Consequently, some borrowers in the United States do not have sufficient equity to allow refinancing of existing higher rate ARMs for lower rate mortgage loans, an action that would typically result in the cancellation of existing mortgage insurance coverage. Such borrowers are now contributing to higher delinquencies and foreclosures where they are not able to meet the reset higher monthly payments due under the terms of the underlying ARMs. These developments have had an adverse impact on our U.S. mortgage insurance business. Interest rate fluctuations also could have an adverse effect on the results of our investment portfolio. During periods of declining market interest rates, the interest we receive on variable interest rate investments decreases. In addition, during those periods, we are forced to reinvest the cash we receive as interest or return of principal on our investments in lower yielding high grade instruments or in lower credit instruments to maintain comparable returns. Issuers of fixed income securities may also decide to prepay their obligations in order to borrow at lower market rates, which exacerbates the risk that we may have to invest the cash proceeds of these securities in lower yielding or lower credit instruments. During periods of increasing interest rates, market values of our interest rate hedges will decline which will require us to post additional collateral with our derivative counterparties. 54 Table of Contents Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital and may affect our ability to meet liquidity or refinancing requirements in the future. In the event market or other conditions have an adverse impact on our capital and liquidity needs beyond expectations and our sources of liquidity do not satisfy our needs, we could have to seek additional funding. Funding sources could potentially include the generation of proceeds from the sale of assets (including assets in our investment portfolio, blocks of business or all or a portion of a business) or the incurrence of additional debt. In addition, funding sources could potentially include issuing equity, with any decision to issue equity thoroughly considering the degree to which such an equity issuance would dilute current stockholders value. All such funding sources can have various impacts on our financial condition, including book value, and results of operations. The availability of additional funding will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, regulatory considerations, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, the level of activity and availability of reinsurers or acquirers of assets, our credit ratings and credit capacity and the performance of and outlook for our business. Market conditions may make it difficult to obtain funding or complete asset sales to generate additional liquidity, especially on short notice. Our access to funding may be further impaired if our credit or financial strength ratings are negatively impacted. Our valuation of fixed maturity, equity and trading securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Fixed maturity, equity and trading securities are reported at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. They represent the majority of our total cash, cash equivalents and invested assets. Our portfolio of fixed maturity securities consists primarily of investment grade securities. Valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, as well as valuation methods that are more sophisticated or require greater estimation, thereby resulting in values that are less certain and may vary significantly from the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. The methodologies, estimates and assumptions we use in valuing our investment securities evolve over time and are subject to different interpretation (including based on developments in relevant accounting literature), all of which can lead to changes in the value of our investment securities. Rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of investment securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements, and the period to period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Defaults, downgrades or other events impacting the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio may reduce our income. We are subject to the risk that the issuers or guarantors of fixed maturity securities we own may default on principal or interest payments they owe us. As of December 31, 2010, fixed maturity securities of $55.2 billion in our investment portfolio represented 77% of our total cash, cash equivalents and invested assets. Events reducing the value of our investment portfolio other than on a temporary basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Levels of write downs or impairments are impacted by our assessment of the financial condition of the issuer, whether or not the issuer is expected to pay its principal and interest obligations or circumstances that would require us to sell securities which have declined in value. Continued volatility and uncertainty in the sub prime and Alt A residential market have resulted in increased delinquency rates and these developments have had an adverse impact on our investments in securities backed by sub prime and Alt A residential mortgage loans. The credit quality of our hybrid securities may be adversely impacted by the level and type of government support, including the risk that these institutions could be restricted from making discretionary payments of principal or interest. If we determine to reposition or realign portions of the portfolio where we determine to sell certain securities in an unrealized loss position, then we will incur an other than temporary impairment charge. 55 Table of Contents Defaults on our commercial mortgage loans or the mortgage loans underlying our investments in commercial mortgage backed securities and volatility in performance may adversely affect our profitability. Our commercial mortgage loans and investments in commercial mortgage backed securities face default risk. Commercial mortgage loans are stated on our consolidated balance sheets at unpaid principal balance, adjusted for any unamortized premium or discount, deferred fees or expenses, and are net of impairments and valuation allowances. We establish valuation allowances for estimated impairments as of the balance sheet date based on information, such as the market value of the underlying real estate securing the loan, any third party guarantees on the loan balance or any cross collateral agreements and their impact on expected recovery rates. Commercial mortgage backed securities are stated on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value. In addition, some of our commercial mortgage loans and the underlying mortgage loans supporting our investments in commercial mortgage backed securities have balloon payment maturities. Further, any concentration of geographic or sector exposure in our commercial mortgage loans or the mortgage loans underlying our investments in commercial mortgage backed securities may have adverse effects on our investment portfolio and consequently on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. While we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are exposed. We may be required to recognize additional impairments in the value of our goodwill, which would increase our expenses and reduce our U.S. GAAP profitability. Goodwill represents the excess of the amount we paid to acquire our subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of the acquisition. Under U.S. GAAP, we test the carrying value of goodwill for impairment at least annually at the reporting unit level, which is either an operating segment or a business one level below the operating segment. Goodwill is impaired if the fair value of the reporting unit as a whole is less than the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, plus the carrying value of goodwill, at the date of the test. For example, goodwill may become impaired if the fair value of a reporting unit as a whole were to decline by an amount greater than the decline in the value of its individually identifiable assets and liabilities. This may occur for various reasons, including changes in actual or expected income or cash flows of a reporting unit or generation of income by a reporting unit at a lower rate of return than similar businesses or for decreases in our market capitalization. If any portion of our goodwill becomes impaired, we would be required to recognize the amount of the impairment as a non cash expense in the current period. See note 8 in our consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our consolidated financial statements, the related notes and the accompanying independent registered public accounting firms report (which refers to changes in accounting for embedded credit derivatives and variable interest entities in 2010 and for other than temporary impairments in 2009), which are included in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Years ended December 31, (Amounts in millions, except per share amounts) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Consolidated Statements of Income Information Revenues: Premiums $ 5,854 $ 6,019 $ 6,777 $ 6,330 $ 5,802 Net investment income 3,266 3,033 3,730 4,135 3,787 Net investment gains (losses) (1) (143 ) (1,041 ) (1,709 ) (332 ) (69 ) Insurance and investment product fees and other 1,112 1,058 1,150 992 765 Total revenues 10,089 9,069 9,948 11,125 10,285 Benefits and expenses: Benefits and operating expenses 9,556 9,468 10,420 9,038 8,068 Interest expense 457 393 470 481 364 Total benefits and expenses 10,013 9,861 10,890 9,519 8,432 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change 76 (792 ) (942 ) 1,606 1,853 Provision (benefit) for income taxes (209 ) (393 ) (370 ) 452 570 Income (loss) from continuing operations before cumulative effect of accounting change 285 (399 ) (572 ) 1,154 1,283 Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes (2) 15 41 Gain on sale of discontinued operations, net of taxes (2) 51 Income (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change 285 (399 ) (572 ) 1,220 1,324 Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of taxes (3) 4 Net income (loss) 285 (399 ) (572 ) 1,220 1,328 Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (4) 143 61 Net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders $ 142 $ (460 ) $ (572 ) $ 1,220 $ 1,328 Income (loss) from continuing operations per common share: Basic $ 0.58 $ (0.88 ) $ (1.32 ) $ 2.62 $ 2.81 Diluted (5) $ 0.58 $ (0.88 ) $ (1.32 ) $ 2.58 $ 2.73 Net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders per common share: Basic $ 0.29 $ (1.02 ) $ (1.32 ) $ 2.77 $ 2.91 Diluted (5) $ 0.29 $ (1.02 ) $ (1.32 ) $ 2.73 $ 2.83 Weighted average common shares outstanding (6): Basic 489.3 451.1 433.2 439.7 455.9 Diluted (5) 493.9 451.1 433.2 447.6 469.4 Cash dividends declared per common share (7) $ $ $ 0.30 $ 0.38 $ 0.33 85 Table of Contents Years ended December 31, (Amounts in millions) 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Selected Segment Information Total revenues: Retirement and Protection $ 6,765 $ 5,667 $ 6,336 $ 6,884 $ 6,652 International 2,484 2,560 2,907 2,689 2,144 U.S. Mortgage Insurance 754 826 851 805 658 Corporate and Other 86 16 (146 ) 747 831 Total $ 10,089 $ 9,069 $ 9,948 $ 11,125 $ 10,285 Income (loss) from continuing operations before cumulative effect of accounting change: Retirement and Protection $ 403 $ (60 ) $ (145 ) $ 629 $ 641 International 587 441 608 580 469 U.S. Mortgage Insurance (559 ) (427 ) (368 ) 171 262 Corporate and Other (146 ) (353 ) (667 ) (226 ) (89 ) Total $ 285 $ (399 ) $ (572 ) $ 1,154 $ 1,283 Consolidated Balance Sheet Information Total investments $ 68,437 $ 63,515 $ 60,612 $ 70,800 $ 68,573 All other assets (8) 43,958 44,672 46,777 43,515 40,316 Assets associated with discontinued operations (2) 1,982 Total assets $ 112,395 $ 108,187 $ 107,389 $ 114,315 $ 110,871 Policyholder liabilities $ 69,169 $ 69,220 $ 73,291 $ 72,977 $ 70,793 Non recourse funding obligations 3,437 3,443 3,455 3,455 2,765 Short term borrowings 930 1,133 200 199 Long term borrowings 4,952 3,641 4,261 3,903 4,021 All other liabilities 19,866 17,603 16,323 20,302 18,340 Liabilities associated with discontinued operations (2) 1,423 Total liabilities $ 97,424 $ 94,837 $ 98,463 $ 100,837 $ 97,541 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) $ 1,492 $ (164 ) $ (3,062 ) $ 727 $ 1,157 Noncontrolling interests (4) $ 1,110 $ 1,074 $ $ $ Total stockholders equity $ 14,971 $ 13,350 $ 8,926 $ 13,478 $ 13,330 U.S. Statutory Financial Information (9) Statutory capital and surplus (10) $ 4,885 $ 5,878 $ 6,436 $ 6,597 $ 7,234 Asset valuation reserve (11) $ 133 $ 56 $ 320 $ 430 $ 439 (1) On April 1, 2009, we adopted new accounting guidance related to the recognition and presentation of other than temporary impairments. This accounting guidance modified the presentation of other than temporary impairments for certain debt securities to only present the impairment loss in net income (loss) that represents the credit loss associated with the other than temporary impairment with the remaining impairment loss being presented in other comprehensive income (loss) (OCI). For further discussion, refer to note 2 in our consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Overview Our business We are a leading financial security company dedicated to providing insurance, wealth management, investment and financial solutions to more than 15 million customers, with a presence in more than 25 countries. We have three operating segments: Retirement and Protection, International and U.S. Mortgage Insurance. Retirement and Protection. We offer and manage a variety of protection, wealth management and retirement income products. Our primary protection products include life and long term care insurance. Additionally, we offer other Medicare supplement insurance products, as well as care coordination services for our long term care policyholders. Our wealth management and retirement income products include: a variety of managed account programs and advisor services, financial planning services, fixed and variable deferred and immediate individual annuities and group variable annuities offered through retirement plans. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our Retirement and Protection segments net income available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders and net operating income available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders were $403 million and $485 million, respectively. International. We offer mortgage and lifestyle protection insurance products and related services in multiple markets. We are a leading provider of mortgage insurance products in Canada, Australia, Mexico and multiple European countries. Our products predominantly insure prime based, individually underwritten residential mortgage loans, also known as flow mortgage insurance. On a limited basis, we also provide mortgage insurance on a structured, or bulk, basis that aids in the sale of mortgages to the capital markets and helps lenders manage capital and risk. Additionally, we offer services, analytical tools and technology that enable lenders to operate efficiently and manage risk. We are a leading provider of payment protection coverages (referred to as lifestyle protection) in multiple European countries. Our lifestyle protection insurance products primarily help consumers meet specified payment obligations should they become unable to pay due to accident, illness, involuntary unemployment, disability or death. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our International segments net income available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders and net operating income available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders were $444 million and $434 million, respectively. U.S. Mortgage Insurance. In the United States, we offer mortgage insurance products predominantly insuring prime based, individually underwritten residential mortgage loans, also known as flow mortgage insurance. We selectively provide mortgage insurance on a structured, or bulk, basis with essentially all of our bulk writings prime based. Additionally, we offer services, analytical tools and technology that enable lenders to operate efficiently and manage risk. For the year ended December 31, 2010, our U.S. Mortgage Insurance segments net loss available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders and net operating loss available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders were $559 million and $580 million, respectively. We also have Corporate and Other activities which include debt financing expenses that are incurred at our holding company level, unallocated corporate income and expenses, eliminations of inter segment transactions, the results of non core businesses and non strategic products that are managed outside of our operating segments. For the year ended December 31, 2010, Corporate and Other activities had a net loss available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders and a net operating loss available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders of $146 million and $213 million, respectively. 88 Table of Contents Our financial information The financial information in this Annual Report on Form 10 K has been derived from our consolidated financial statements. Revenues and expenses Our revenues consist primarily of the following: Retirement and Protection. The revenues in our Retirement and Protection segment consist primarily of: net premiums earned on individual term life insurance, individual and group long term care insurance, Medicare supplement insurance and single premium immediate annuities with life contingencies; net investment income and net investment gains (losses) on the segments separate investment portfolios; and insurance and investment product fees and other, including surrender charges, mortality and expense risk charges, primarily from variable annuity contracts and universal life insurance policies, management fees and commissions from wealth management products, and other administrative charges. International. The revenues in our International segment consist primarily of: net premiums earned on international mortgage and lifestyle protection insurance policies; net investment income and net investment gains (losses) on the separate investment portfolio held by our international mortgage and lifestyle protection insurance businesses; and insurance and investment product fees and other, primarily third party administration fees from our lifestyle protection insurance business. U.S. Mortgage Insurance. The revenues in our U.S. Mortgage Insurance segment consist primarily of: net premiums earned on mortgage insurance policies and premiums assumed through our inter segment reinsurance and capital maintenance agreement with our international mortgage insurance business; net investment income and net investment gains (losses) on the segments separate investment portfolio; and fee revenues from contract underwriting services. Corporate and Other. The revenues in Corporate and Other consist primarily of: net premiums, insurance and investment product fees, income from non core businesses and non strategic products and eliminations of inter segment transactions and unallocated net investment income and net investment gains (losses). Our expenses consist primarily of the following: benefits provided to policyholders and contractholders and changes in reserves; interest credited on general account balances; acquisition and operating expenses, including commissions, marketing expenses, policy and contract servicing costs, overhead and other general expenses that are not capitalized (shown net of deferrals); amortization of DAC and other intangible assets; 89 Table of Contents goodwill impairment charges; interest and other financing expenses; and income taxes. We allocate corporate expenses to each of our operating segments using a methodology that includes allocated capital. Managements discussion and analysis by segment contains selected operating performance measures including sales, assets under management and insurance in force or risk in force which are commonly used in the insurance and investment industries as measures of operating performance. Management regularly monitors and reports sales metrics as a measure of volume of new and renewal business generated in a period. Sales refer to: (1) annualized first year premiums for term life, long term care and Medicare supplement insurance; (2) new and additional premiums/deposits for universal life insurance, term universal life insurance, linked benefits, spread based and variable products; (3) gross and net flows, which represent gross flows less redemptions, for our wealth management business; (4) written premiums and deposits, gross of ceded reinsurance and cancellations, and premium equivalents, where we earn a fee for administrative services only business, for our lifestyle protection insurance business; (5) new insurance written for mortgage insurance, which in each case reflects the amount of business we generated during each period presented; and (6) written premiums net of cancellations for our Mexican insurance operations. Sales do not include renewal premiums on policies or contracts written during prior periods. We consider annualized first year premiums, new premiums/deposits, gross and net flows, written premiums, premium equivalents and new insurance written to be a measure of our operating performance because they represent a measure of new sales of insurance policies or contracts during a specified period, rather than a measure of our revenues or profitability during that period. Management regularly monitors and reports assets under management for our wealth management business, insurance in force and risk in force. Assets under management for our wealth management business represent third party assets under management that are not consolidated in our financial statements. Insurance in force for our life, international mortgage and U.S. mortgage insurance businesses is a measure of the aggregate face value of outstanding insurance policies as of the respective reporting date. For our risk in force in our international mortgage insurance business, we have computed an effective risk in force amount, which recognizes that the loss on any particular loan will be reduced by the net proceeds received upon sale of the property. Effective risk in force has been calculated by applying to insurance in force a factor of 35% that represents our highest expected average per claim payment for any one underwriting year over the life of our businesses in Canada, Australia and New Zealand. Risk in force for our U.S. mortgage insurance business is our obligation that is limited under contractual terms to the amounts less than 100% of the mortgage loan value. We consider assets under management for our wealth management business, insurance in force and risk in force to be a measure of our operating performance because they represent a measure of the size of our business at a specific date which will generate revenues and profits in a future period, rather than a measure of our revenues or profitability during that period. We also include information related to loss mitigation activities for our U.S. mortgage insurance business. We define loss mitigation activities as rescissions, cancellations, borrower loan modifications, repayment plans, lender and borrower titled presales and other loan workouts and claim mitigation actions. Estimated savings related to rescissions are the reduction in carried loss reserves, net of premium refunds and reinstatement of prior rescissions. Estimated savings related to loan modifications and other cure related loss mitigation actions represent the reduction in carried loss reserves. For non cure related actions, including presales, the estimated savings represent the difference between the full claim obligation and the actual amount paid. We believe that this information helps to enhance the understanding of the operating performance of our U.S. mortgage insurance business as they specifically impact current and future loss reserves and level of claim payments. 90 Table of Contents These operating measures enable us to compare our operating performance across periods without regard to revenues or profitability related to policies or contracts sold in prior periods or from investments or other sources. Business trends and conditions Our business is, and we expect will continue to be, influenced by a number of industry wide and product specific trends and conditions. General conditions and trends affecting our businesses Financial and economic environment. As a financial security company, the stability of both the financial markets and global economies in which we operate impacts the sales, revenue growth and profitability trends of our businesses. Despite swings experienced in equity markets, credit markets, interest rate spreads and systemic European sovereign risk, global financial markets improved during 2010 from the volatility experienced in 2009. In 2010, Canadian and Australian economies and housing markets improved although the volume of high loan to value mortgage originations in Australia remained substantially below levels seen in prior years. The U.S. housing market reflected continuing stress, growing levels of foreclosures and variations in performance by sub market, including continued signs of stabilization within certain regions. Europe remained a slow growth environment with lower consumer lending activity. Slow economic growth, coupled with uncertain financial market, government policy, regulatory reform and other market conditions, influenced, and we believe will continue to influence, investment and spending decisions by consumers and businesses as they adjust their consumption, debt, capital and risk profiles in response to these conditions. As a result, our sales, revenues and profitability trends of certain insurance and investment products were adversely impacted during the first half of 2009. Since then, these trends have generally improved as investor confidence in the markets and the outlook for some consumers and businesses strengthened. Other factors such as government spending, monetary policies, regulatory initiatives, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, anticipated tax policy changes and the impact of U.S. healthcare and financial regulation reform will continue to affect economic and business outlooks and consumer behaviors moving forward. In response to market conditions, we adjusted our investment and asset liability management strategies to reduce risk during strained economic and financial market conditions. In addition, we refined our product and distribution management strategies to best fit with our strengths, profitability targets and risk tolerance. These and other company actions were made to enhance our competitive position as well as our capital flexibility and liquidity. See Trends and conditions affecting our segments below for a discussion regarding the impacts the financial markets and global economies have on our businesses. The U.S. government, Federal Reserve and other legislative and regulatory bodies continue to take a variety of other actions to support the capital markets, influence interest rates, stabilize housing markets and provide needed liquidity to promote economic growth. These include various mortgage restructuring programs implemented or under consideration by the GSEs, lenders, servicers and the U.S. government. Outside of the United States, various governments took actions to stimulate economies, stabilize financial systems and improve market liquidity. In general, these actions have positively affected these countries and their markets; however, there can be no assurance as to the future level of impact of any of these actions on the economic and financial markets, including levels of volatility. A delayed economic recovery period or a U.S. or global recessionary or debt crisis setback could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Volatility in credit and investment markets. During the fourth quarter of 2010, markets were characterized by rising U.S. Treasury yields and tightening credit spreads. A combination of improving macroeconomic data, anticipated fiscal stimulus in the form of tax cut extensions, weaker non U.S. investor demand and the Federal Reserves second quantitative easing program designed to stimulate economic recovery and encourage investment in higher risk sectors in part drove intermediate and long interest rates higher in the fourth quarter. Strong investor demand for higher yielding assets and declining net supply of spread product continued to drive credit spreads tighter in most sectors. Concerns regarding systemic European sovereign risk resurfaced but 91 Table of Contents concerns were more focused on particular European borrowers. For securitized products, the market was characterized by shrinking supply and lower issuance across all asset types. Asset valuations in securitized sectors continued to improve given a strong supply and demand imbalance, stable credit performance, and the structural protections embedded in the transactions brought to market. Certain segments of the marketplace are still experiencing declines in the performance of collateral underlying certain structured securities, but impairments of corporate bonds held in our investment portfolio continued their downward trend and were at moderate levels during the first half of 2010 with a minimal increase in the third and fourth quarters of 2010. We recorded net other than temporary impairments of $208 million during the year ended December 31, 2010 which were lower than prior year levels and we expect losses to moderate further. Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2010, losses related to limited partnerships decreased $147 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009 with limited partnership gains since the first quarter of 2010. Although economic conditions may continue to negatively impact certain investment valuations, the underlying collateral associated with securities that have not been impaired continues to perform. Looking ahead, we believe that the current credit environment provides us with opportunities to invest across a variety of asset classes to meet our yield requirements, as well as to continue execution of various risk management disciplines involving further diversification within the investment portfolio. See Investments and Derivative Instruments for additional information on our investment portfolio. Trends and conditions affecting our segments Retirement and Protection Life insurance. Results of our life insurance business are impacted by sales, mortality, persistency, investment yields, expenses, reinsurance and statutory reserve requirements. Additionally, sales of our products and persistency of our insurance in force are dependent on competitive product features and pricing, distribution and customer service. The increase in life insurance sales we experienced during the second half of 2009 continued throughout 2010, in large part the result of strong adoption of our new term universal life insurance product. As anticipated, sales of our traditional term life insurance product have declined given the introduction late in 2009 of our new term universal life insurance product. We believe our term universal life insurance product offers a similar or better value proposition to the consumer as our traditional term life insurance product which we no longer sell, and is competitively priced for the middle and emerging affluent markets. We have experienced strong adoption of the product, with sales of $96 million in 2010. In our universal life insurance products, sales during 2010 were relatively stable given product changes made in 2009. Going forward, the level of new sales will depend on ongoing distributor and consumer adoption and usage, as well as overall market conditions. Throughout 2009 and 2010, we experienced favorable mortality results in our term life insurance products as compared to priced mortality assumptions. Additionally, we have experienced lower persistency as compared to pricing assumptions for 10 year term life insurance policies written in 1999 and 2000 as they go through their post level rate period. We expect this trend to continue as policies go through their post level rate period and then moderate thereafter. Regulations XXX and AXXX require insurers to establish additional statutory reserves for term life insurance policies with long term premium guarantees and certain universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees, which increase the capital required to write these products beyond economic requirements. The solutions for the increased reserve requirements on some of our in force books of business have become more limited and expensive; however, we have committed funding sources for approximately 95% of our anticipated peak level reserves required under Regulations XXX and AXXX so we believe unfunded reserve exposure is minimal. Additionally, we have made product modifications and introduced new products designed to reduce capital requirements and limit financing costs compared to existing products and thereby improve the profitability of new business. The new term universal life insurance product, discussed above, offers death 92 Table of Contents benefit guarantee premiums that are competitive with traditional term insurance premiums for comparable durations and provides greater consumer flexibility typically associated with universal life coverage. Long term care insurance. Results of our long term care insurance business are influenced by morbidity, mortality, persistency, investment yields, new product sales, expenses and reinsurance as well as the relative competitiveness of our offerings. In recent years, industry wide first year annualized premiums of long term care insurance have either declined or grown moderately. While our overall sales in 2009 were adversely impacted primarily by the general economic conditions and lower sales through our independent distribution and career force channels, in the second half of 2009 and continuing into 2010, we experienced improvements in our long term care insurance sales. Recent improvements are due in part to the breadth of our distribution, and we have made progress on multiple growth initiatives with an emphasis on distribution effectiveness and broadening our individual and group offerings. In the first half of 2009, termination rates increased on our business resulting in lower benefits and other changes in policy reserves that contributed positively to results of operations. However, during the second half of 2009 and in 2010, termination rates have decreased and returned to levels experienced historically resulting in higher benefits and other changes in policy reserves that contributed to lower results of operations. In recent periods, we have experienced, and may continue to, experience higher claims in older issued policies which negatively impact our results of operations. In the fourth quarter of 2010, one of our competitors announced its intent to exit the long term care insurance market effective January 1, 2011. In addition, several competitors have announced their intent to seek rate actions on their individual and certain group long term care insurance products. These announcements by competitors, coupled with our announcement, in October 2010, that we planned to file for a premium rate increase of 18% on two blocks of older long term care insurance policies, could disrupt the market and impact our sales going forward. We continue pursuing multiple initiatives including: new product issuance and service offerings; investing in claims paying capabilities; maintaining tight expense management; actively exploring alternative reinsurance strategies; executing effective investment strategies; and considering other actions to improve business profitability and the performance of the overall block. These efforts include our older blocks of business and the potential for future in force rate increases, where warranted. In this connection, we began filing for a rate increase of 18% on two blocks of older long term care insurance policies in November 2010 and the implementation of any rate increase will not begin to take effect until 2011. The state approval process of an in force rate increase varies, and in certain states can take up to two years to obtain approval. Upon approval, premium increases may only occur on an insureds policy anniversary date. Therefore, the benefits of any rate increase may not be fully realized until the implementation is complete over the next several years. As of December 31, 2010, these blocks represented approximately $550 million, or 29%, of our total annual long term care insurance premium in force. In addition, changes in regulations or government programs, including certain aspects of healthcare reform, such as the CLASS Act, could impact our long term care insurance business positively or negatively. As such, we continue to actively monitor regulatory developments. Wealth management. Results of our wealth management business are impacted by the demand for asset management products and related support services, investment performance and equity market conditions. The decline and volatility in the equity markets that began in 2008 negatively impacted the asset management industry overall, as well as our assets under management, net flows, the performance of certain mutual funds we offer and associated fee income. The recovery of equity and fixed income markets began in the second quarter of 2009 and continued throughout 2009 and 2010. The market improvement, our introduction of new investment strategies, the expansion of products and services we offer to our advisors and an increase in the number of advisors that do business with us collectively 93 Table of Contents contributed to our higher sales, net flows and assets under management. Depending upon the direction of equity markets in the future, we could see a correlated impact on sales, net flows and assets under management. On December 31, 2010, we purchased the operating assets of Altegris. This acquisition provides a platform of alternative investments including hedge funds and managed futures products and had approximately $2.2 billion in client assets as of December 31, 2010. See note 8 to our consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion of recent market conditions. In 2010, the currencies in Canada and Australia strengthened against the U.S. dollar, while in Europe, the currencies weakened against the U.S. dollar, as compared to the prior year. This has generally resulted in higher levels of reported revenues and net income (loss), assets, liabilities and accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in our U.S. dollar consolidated financial statements. See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion on the impact changes in foreign currency exchange rates have had during the year. We enter into market sensitive instruments primarily for purposes other than trading. The carrying value of our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 was $68.4 billion and $63.5 billion, respectively, of which 81% and 78%, respectively, was invested in fixed maturity securities. The primary market risk to our investment portfolio is interest rate risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. We mitigate the market risk associated with our fixed maturity securities portfolio by closely matching the duration of our fixed maturity securities with the duration of the liabilities that those securities are intended to support. 176 Table of Contents The primary market risk for our long term borrowings is interest rate risk at the time of maturity or early redemption, when we may be required to refinance these obligations. We continue to monitor the interest rate environment and to evaluate refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. We are exposed to equity risk on our holdings of common stocks and other equities, as well as risk on products where we have equity market risk exposure. We manage equity price risk through industry and issuer diversification, asset allocation techniques and hedging strategies. We also have exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. Our international operations generate revenues denominated in local currencies, and we invest cash generated outside the United States in non U.S. denominated securities. Although investing in securities denominated in local currencies limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on local operating results, we remain exposed to the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates as we translate the operating results of our foreign operations into our historical combined financial statements. We currently do not hedge this exposure. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, 152%, 160% and 116%, respectively, of our income, excluding net investment gains (losses), was generated by our international operations. We use derivative instruments, such as interest rate and foreign currency swaps, financial futures and option based financial instruments, as part of our risk management strategy. We use these derivatives to mitigate certain risks, including interest rate risk, currency risk and equity risk, by: reducing the risk between the timing of the receipt of cash and its investment in the market; matching the currency of invested assets with the liabilities they support; converting the asset duration to match the duration of the liabilities; reducing our exposure to fluctuations in equity market indices that underlie some of our products; and protecting against the early termination of an asset or liability. As a matter of policy, we have not and will not engage in derivative market making, speculative derivative trading or other speculative derivatives activities. Sensitivity Analysis Sensitivity analysis measures the impact of hypothetical changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and other market rates or prices on the profitability of market sensitive financial instruments. The following discussion about the potential effects of changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market prices is based on so called shock tests, which model the effects of interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market price shifts on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we believe shock tests provide the most meaningful analysis permitted by the rules and regulations of the SEC, they are constrained by several factors, including the necessity to conduct the analysis based on a single point in time and by their inability to include the extraordinarily complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled. Although the following results of shock tests for changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market prices may have some limited use as benchmarks, they should not be viewed as forecasts. These forward looking disclosures also are selective in nature and address only the potential impacts on our financial instruments. For the purpose of this sensitivity analysis, we excluded the potential impacts on our insurance liabilities that are not considered financial instruments, with the exception of those insurance liabilities that have embedded derivatives that are required to be bifurcated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. They do not include a variety of other potential factors that could affect our business as a result of these changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market prices. 177 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk One means of assessing exposure of our fixed maturity securities portfolio to interest rate changes is a duration based analysis that measures the potential changes in market value resulting from a hypothetical change in interest rates of 100 basis points across all maturities. This is sometimes referred to as a parallel shift in the yield curve. Under this model, with all other factors constant and assuming no offsetting change in the value of our liabilities, we estimated that such an increase in interest rates would cause the market value of our fixed income securities portfolio to decline by approximately $3.2 billion before the effect of deferred taxes, DAC and PVFP, based on our securities positions as of December 31, 2010. We performed a similar sensitivity analysis on our derivative portfolio and noted that a 100 basis point increase in interest rates resulted in a decrease in fair value of $758 million based on our derivatives portfolio as of December 31, 2010. We also performed a similar sensitivity analysis on our embedded derivatives associated with our GMWB liabilities and noted that a 100 basis point increase in interest rates resulted in a decrease of $86 million based on our embedded derivative liabilities as of December 31, 2010. The principal amount, weighted average interest rate and fair value by maturity, of our variable rate non recourse funding obligations were as follows as of December 31, 2010: (Amounts in millions) Principalamount Weighted averageinterestrate Fairvalue (2) Maturity (1) : River Lake Insurance Company IV, 2028 $ 522 0.60 % $ 353 River Lake Insurance Company, 2033 1,070 1.47 % 707 River Lake Insurance Company II, 2035 850 1.18 % 555 River Lake Insurance Company III, 2036 680 1.65 % 425 Rivermont Insurance Company I, 2050 315 2.28 % 129 Total $ 3,437 1.44 % $ 2,169 (1) There are no maturities over the next five years. (2) The valuation methodology used is based on then current coupon, revalued based on the LIBOR rate set and current spread assumption based on commercially available data. The model is a floating rate coupon model using the spread assumption to derive the valuation. Foreign Currency Risk One means of assessing exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates is to model effects on reported income using a sensitivity analysis. We analyzed our combined currency exposure for the year ended December 31, 2010, including the results of our international operations financial instruments designated and effective as hedges to identify assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than their relevant functional currencies. Net unhedged exposures in each currency were then remeasured, generally assuming a 10% decrease in foreign currency exchange rates compared to the U.S. dollar. Under this model, with all other factors constant, we estimated that such a decrease would decrease our pre tax results by approximately $71 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. We also performed a similar sensitivity analysis on our foreign currency derivative portfolio and noted that a 10% decrease in currency exchange rates resulted in a decrease in fair value of $79 million as of December 31, 2010. The change in fair value of derivatives may not result in a direct impact to our income as a result of certain derivatives that may be designated as qualifying hedge relationships. 178 Table of Contents Equity Market Risk One means of assessing exposure to changes in equity market prices is to estimate the potential changes in market values on our equity investments resulting from a hypothetical broad based decline in equity market prices of 10%. Under this model, with all other factors constant, we estimated that such a decline in equity market prices would cause the market value of our equity investments to decline by approximately $22 million based on our equity positions as of December 31, 2010. We performed a similar sensitivity analysis on our equity market derivatives and noted that a 10% decline in equity market prices would result in an increase in fair value of $79 million based on our equity market derivatives as of December 31, 2010. We also performed a similar sensitivity analysis on our embedded derivatives associated with our GMWB liabilities and noted that a 10% decline in equity market prices would result in an increase in fair value of $67 million based on our embedded derivative liabilities as of December 31, 2010. Fluctuations in equity market prices also affect our variable annuity and wealth management products, which depend upon fees that are related primarily to the value of assets under management. Continued equity market volatility could adversely impact our revenues and returns of these products. In addition, material losses in our variable annuity products and associated hedging program could challenge our ability to recover DAC on these products and could lead to further write offs of DAC. Derivative Counterparty Credit Risk For all derivative instruments, a counterparty (or its guarantor, as applicable) may not have a long term unsecured debt rating below A /A3 as rated by S&P and Moodys, respectively, at the date of execution of the derivative instrument. The same requirement applies where a Credit Support Annex (CSA) to an ISDA Master Agreement has been obtained such that the counterparty is obligated to provide collateral. In the case of a split or single rating, the lowest or the single rating will apply. In the case of foreign exchange transactions with a tenor of exposure of less than one year, a counterparty must have short term credit rating of A 1/P 1 or its equivalent. In the case of a split or single rating, the lowest or the single rating will apply. All counterparty exposure is measured on a net mark to market basis where the valuation of a derivative is adjusted to reflect current market values. This is achieved by estimating the net present value (NPV) of derivatives positions contracted and outstanding with each counterparty and calculating the gross loss (excluding recoveries) that would be sustained in the event of a counterparty bankruptcy (taking into account netting and pledged collateral under the applicable ISDA Master Agreement and CSA). Investment exposure limits to counterparties shall take into account all exposures (through derivatives, bond investments, repurchase transactions or otherwise). We may also engage in derivatives transactions traded on regulated exchanges or clearinghouses where the exchanges or clearinghouse ensure the performance of the contracts. 179 Table of Contents 
 
