Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations International Mortgage Insurance. As of or for the years ended December 31, (Amounts in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Revenues: Canada $ 823 $ 796 $ 729 Australia 612 496 442 Other Countries 72 80 88 Total revenues $ 1,507 $ 1,372 $ 1,259 Net operating income available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders: Canada $ 161 $ 176 $ 206 Australia 200 205 148 Other Countries (29 ) (18 ) (25 ) Total net operating income available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders 332 363 329 Net investment gains (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments 25 7 6 Net income available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders 357 370 335 Add: net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 139 143 61 Net income $ 496 $ 513 $ 396 Total segment assets $ 9,748 $ 9,704 $ 8,888 15 Table of Contents We have significant mortgage insurance operations in Canada and Australia, two of the largest markets for mortgage insurance products outside of the United States, as well as in Europe, Mexico and Korea. The mortgage loan markets in Canada and Australia are well developed, and mortgage insurance plays an important role in each of these markets. However, these markets vary significantly and are influenced by different economic, public policy, regulatory, distributor, credit and cultural conditions. We believe the following factors have contributed to the growth of mortgage insurance demand in these countries: a desire by lenders to expand their business by offering low down payment mortgage loans; the recognition of the higher default risk inherent in low down payment lending and the need for specialized underwriting expertise to conduct this business prudently; government housing policies that support a high level of homeownership; government policies that support the use of securitization and secondary market mortgage sales, in which third party credit enhancement is often used to facilitate funding and liquidity for mortgage lending; and bank regulatory capital policies that provide incentives to lenders to transfer some or all of the credit risk on low down payment mortgages to third parties, such as mortgage insurers. Based upon our experience in these mature markets, we believe a favorable regulatory framework is important to the development of high loan to value lending and the use of products such as mortgage insurance to protect against default risk or to obtain capital relief. As a result, we have advocated government and policymaking agencies throughout our markets to adopt legislative and regulatory policies supporting increased homeownership and the use of private mortgage insurance. We have significant expertise in mature markets, and we leverage this experience in selected developing markets to encourage regulatory authorities to implement incentives to use private mortgage insurance as an important element of their housing finance systems. We believe the revisions to a set of regulatory rules and procedures governing global bank capital standards that were introduced by the Basel Committee of the Bank for International Settlements, recently revised to strengthen regulatory capital requirements for banks and now referred to as Basel III, also may encourage further use of mortgage insurance as a risk and capital management tool in international markets. While Basel III was issued in December 2010, its adoption by individual countries internationally and in the United States has only begun. Changes in national implementation could occur which might aid or detract from future demand for mortgage insurance. Mortgage insurance in our International Mortgage Insurance segment is predominantly single premium and provides 100% coverage in the two largest markets, Canada and Australia. With single premium policies, the premium is usually included as part of the aggregate loan amount and paid to us as the mortgage insurer. We record the proceeds to unearned premium reserves, invest those proceeds and recognize the premiums over time in accordance with the expected pattern of risk emergence. Canada We entered the Canadian mortgage insurance market in 1995 and operate in every province and territory. We are currently the leading private mortgage insurer in the Canadian market. The five largest mortgage originators in Canada provide the majority of the financing for residential mortgage financing in that country. Mortgages provided by these five lenders in Canada accounted for the majority of our flow new insurance written in 2011. 16 Table of Contents In July 2009, Genworth MI Canada Inc. (Genworth Canada), our indirect subsidiary, completed the initial public offering (the Offering) of its common shares. Following completion of the Offering, we beneficially owned 57.5% of the common shares of Genworth Canada. In August 2010, Genworth Canada repurchased 12.3 million common shares through a substantial issuer bid. Brookfield Life Assurance Company Limited (Brookfield), our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, participated in the issuer bid by making a proportionate tender and continued to hold approximately 57.5% of the outstanding common shares of Genworth Canada. In June 2011, Genworth Canada repurchased approximately 6.2 million common shares for CAD$160 million through a substantial issuer bid. Brookfield participated in the issuer bid by making a proportionate tender and received CAD$90 million and Brookfield continued to hold approximately 57.5% of the outstanding common shares of Genworth Canada in June 2011. In August 2011, we executed a non cash intercompany transaction to increase the statutory capital in our U.S. mortgage insurance companies by contributing to those companies a portion of common shares of Genworth Canada that were held by Brookfield outside of our U.S. mortgage insurance business, with an estimated market value of $375 million. We continue to hold approximately 57.5% of the outstanding common shares of Genworth Canada on a consolidated basis. In addition, Brookfield has the right, exercisable at its discretion, to purchase for cash these common shares of Genworth Canada from our U.S. mortgage insurance companies at the then current market price. Brookfield also has a right of first refusal with respect to the transfer of these common shares of Genworth Canada by the U.S. mortgage insurance companies. See note 23 in our consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations U.S. Mortgage Insurance. As of or for the years ended December 31, (Amounts in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Total revenues $ 719 $ 754 $ 826 Net operating loss available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders $ (507 ) $ (580 ) $ (459 ) Net investment gains (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments 30 21 32 Net loss available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders $ (477 ) $ (559 ) $ (427 ) Total segment assets $ 3,004 $ 3,875 $ 4,247 Products and services The majority of our U.S. mortgage insurance policies provide default loss protection on a portion (typically 10% to 40%) of the balance of an individual mortgage loan. Our primary mortgage insurance policies are predominantly flow insurance policies, which cover individual loans at the time the loan is originated. We also enter into bulk insurance transactions with lenders and investors in selected instances, under which we insure a portfolio of loans for a negotiated price. 22 Table of Contents In addition to flow and bulk primary mortgage insurance, we previously have written a limited amount of mortgage insurance on a pool basis. Under pool insurance, the mortgage insurer provides coverage on a group of specified loans, typically for 100% of all losses on every loan in the portfolio, subject to an agreed aggregate loss limit. Flow insurance Flow insurance is primary mortgage insurance placed on an individual loan when the loan is originated. Our primary mortgage insurance covers default risk on first mortgage loans generally secured by one to four unit residential properties and can be used to protect mortgage lenders and investors from default on any type of residential mortgage loan instrument that we have approved. Our insurance covers a specified coverage percentage of a claim amount consisting of unpaid loan principal, delinquent interest and certain expenses associated with the default and subsequent foreclosure. As the insurer, we are generally required to pay the coverage percentage of a claim amount specified in the primary policy, but we also have the option to pay the lender an amount equal to the unpaid loan principal, delinquent interest and certain expenses incurred with the default and foreclosure, and acquire title to the property. In addition, the claim amount may be reduced or eliminated if the loss on the defaulted loan is reduced as a result of the lenders disposition of the property. The lender selects the coverage percentage at the time the loan is originated, often to comply with investor requirements to reduce the loss exposure on loans purchased by the investor. Our master policies require that loans be underwritten to approved guidelines and provide for cancellation of coverage and return of premium for material breach of obligations. Our master policies generally do not extend to or cover material breach of obligations and misrepresentations known to the insured or specified agents. From time to time, based on various factors, we request loan files to verify compliance with our master policies and required procedures. Where our review and any related investigation establish material noncompliance or misrepresentation or there is a failure to deliver complete loan files as required, we rescind coverage with a return of all premiums paid. In connection with flow insurance, we perform fee based contract underwriting services for certain mortgage lenders. The provision of underwriting services by mortgage insurers eliminates the duplicative lender and mortgage insurer underwriting activities and speeds the approval process. Under the terms of our contract underwriting agreements, we agree to indemnify the lender against losses incurred in the event we make material errors in determining whether loans processed by our contract underwriters meet specified underwriting or purchase criteria, subject to contractual limitations on liability. In the United States, we have entered into a number of reinsurance agreements in which we share portions of our flow mortgage insurance risk written on loans originated or purchased by lenders with captive reinsurers affiliated with these lenders. In return, we cede a predetermined portion of our gross premiums on insurance written to the captive reinsurers. Substantially all of our captive mortgage reinsurance arrangements are structured on an excess of loss basis. In February 2008, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac announced a change to its eligibility rules limiting captive reinsurance arrangements to those where premiums ceded do not exceed 25% of gross premiums. As of December 31, 2011, our mortgage insurance risk in force reinsured to all captive reinsurers was $0.9 billion, and the total capital held in trust for our benefit by all captive reinsurers was $0.6 billion. These captive reinsurers are not rated, and their claims paying obligations to us are secured by an amount of capital held in trust as determined by the underlying treaties. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, we recorded a reinsurance recoverable of $178 million and $351 million, respectively, under these captive reinsurance arrangements. We have exhausted certain captive reinsurance tiers for our 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 book years based on worsening loss development trends. Once the captive reinsurance or trust assets are exhausted, we are responsible for any additional losses incurred. We have begun to experience constraints on the recognition of captive benefit recovery due to the amount of funds held in certain captive trusts and the exhaustion of captive loss tiers for certain reinsurers. As of January 1, 2009, we no longer participate in excess of loss captive reinsurance transactions and we will only participate in quota share reinsurance arrangements. The majority of our excess of loss captive reinsurance arrangements are in runoff with no new books of business being added going forward; however, while this level of benefit is declining, we do continue to benefit from captive reinsurance on our 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2008 books of business. New insurance written through the bulk channel generally is not subject to these arrangements. 23 Table of Contents The following table sets forth selected financial information regarding our captive reinsurance arrangements as of or for the periods indicated: As of or for the years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Flow risk in force subject to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of flow risk in force 34 % 44 % 51 % Primary risk in force subject to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of total primary risk in force 33 % 43 % 50 % Gross written premiums ceded pursuant to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of total gross written premiums 15 % 19 % 21 % Primary new risk written subject to captive reinsurance arrangements, as a percentage of total primary new risk written 2 % 3 % 3 % Bulk insurance Under primary bulk insurance, we insure a portfolio of loans in a single, bulk transaction. Generally, in our bulk insurance, the individual loans in the portfolio are insured to specified levels of coverage and there may be deductible provisions and aggregate loss limits applicable to all of the insured loans. In addition, loans that we insure in bulk transactions with loan to value ratios above 80% typically have flow mortgage insurance, written either by us or another private mortgage insurer, which helps mitigate our exposure under these transactions. We base the premium on our bulk insurance upon our evaluation of the overall risk of the insured loans included in a transaction and we negotiate the premium directly with the securitizer or other owner of the loans. Premiums for bulk transactions generally are paid monthly by lenders, investors or a securitization vehicle in connection with a securitization transaction or the sale of a loan portfolio. Prior to 2006, the majority of our bulk insurance business was related to loans financed by lenders who participated in the mortgage programs sponsored by the Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLBs). Beginning in 2006, we selectively increased our participation in the GSE low documentation, or Alt A, programs and began to provide bulk insurance on lender portfolios, a substantial portion of which was comprised of low loan to value and high FICO score payment option adjustable rate (POA) loans. The risk in force attributable to these 2006 through 2008 books of business was substantially reduced in 2009 pursuant to agreements reached with the insured. In January 2010, we reached an agreement with a counterparty that further reduced our bulk insurance exposure, leaving a small portfolio related principally to the FHLBs. In addition, the FHFA has issued an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking to implement provisions of the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd Frank Act) that require deletion of all references to credit rating agencies in federal rules and regulations. This would likely include rules that govern mortgage purchase programs of the FHLBs that require insurers for such programs to maintain AA ratings. However, there can be no assurance with respect to our level of participation in these programs once the FHFA program rules are revised. Pool insurance Pool insurance generally covers the loss on a defaulted mortgage loan that either exceeds the claim payment under the primary coverage (if primary insurance is required on that loan) or the total loss (if that loan does not require primary insurance), in each case up to a stated aggregate loss limit on the pool. While in 2006 and 2005 we wrote a limited amount of pool insurance coverage policies, we are no longer actively writing pool insurance. Underwriting and pricing Loan applications for all loans we insure are reviewed to evaluate each individual borrowers credit strength and history, the characteristics of the loan and the value of the underlying property. 24 Table of Contents Fair Isaac Company developed the FICO credit scoring model to calculate a score based upon a borrowers credit history. We use the FICO credit score as one indicator of a borrowers credit quality. Typically, a borrower with a higher credit score has a lower likelihood of defaulting on a loan. FICO credit scores range up to 850, with a score of 620 or more generally viewed as a prime loan and a score below 620 generally viewed as a sub prime loan. A minus loans generally are loans where the borrowers have FICO credit scores between 575 and 660, and where the borrower has a blemished credit history. As of December 31, 2011, on a risk in force basis, approximately 93% of our primary insurance loans were at the time the loans were originated considered to be prime in credit quality with FICO credit scores of at least 620, approximately 5% had FICO credit scores between 575 and 619, and approximately 2% had FICO credit scores of 574 or less. Loan applications for flow mortgage insurance are reviewed by our employees directly as part of our traditional underwriting process or by our contract underwriters as we process mortgage loan applications requiring mortgage insurance. While declining in recent periods, the majority of our mortgage lender customers underwrite loan applications for mortgage insurance under a delegated underwriting program, in which we permit approved lenders to commit us to insure loans using underwriting guidelines we have previously approved. When underwriting bulk insurance transactions, we evaluate credit scores and loan characteristics of the loans in the portfolio and examine loan files on a sample basis. Each bulk transaction is assigned an overall claim rate based on a weighted average of the expected claim rates for each individual loan that comprises the transaction. We previously offered mortgage insurance for Alt A loans, which were originated under programs in which there was a reduced level of verification or disclosure of the borrowers income or assets and a higher historical and expected default rate at origination than standard documentation loans; Interest Only loans which allowed the borrower flexibility to pay interest only, or to pay interest and as much principal as desired, during an initial period of time; and POA mortgages, which typically provided four payment options that a borrower could select for the first five years of a loan. Beginning in the second half of 2007 and through 2009, however, we took specific and substantial underwriting and risk management actions to reduce our new business risk profile, including exiting certain products and types of coverages such as Alt A, Interest Only and POA loans, as well as changing prices, product levels and underwriting guidelines, to improve the performance of new business written. Our primary guideline actions during the fourth quarter of 2008 included adding incremental geographic locations to our declining market policy definition and changes in third party loan origination guidelines, including restrictions on delegated underwriting guidelines, as well as imposing tighter underwriting guidelines on lower credit and higher loan to value risks. Additionally, with increased refinancing activity, we also added new restrictions on FICO and debt to income ratios to better manage risk profiles and capital consumption from new production. We believe these and other underwriting and pricing actions benefited our underwriting results on these and future books of business and could have an adverse impact on our volume of new insurance written. As market conditions stabilized or improved in certain areas, we adjusted our approaches. For example, during 2010, we eliminated our targeted declining market policy, which among other things, prohibits us from providing coverage on loans with 90% loan to value and below even in areas of the U.S. housing market where such conditions have begun to stabilize or improve. We continue to monitor current housing conditions and the performance of our books of business to determine if we need to make further changes in our underwriting guidelines and practices. Loss mitigation We request loan files to verify compliance with our master policies. Where underwriting is performed in house, our master policy gives us the right to obtain a copy of the complete loan file for any insured loan. If no file is produced in response to our request, the master policy provides that coverage may be canceled. If a file is delivered but lacks certain documents that are critical to demonstrating compliance with applicable underwriting standards (discussed below) or to our ability to investigate the loan for misrepresentation, we issue a follow up request and give the servicer an additional period of time (approximately 30 additional days) to produce the missing documents. If these documents are not received after the additional time period, the master policy provides that coverage may be canceled. 25 Table of Contents Where underwriting is delegated to other counterparties under specified criteria, our master policy requires that an insured loan be underwritten in strict accordance with applicable guidelines. Where our file review finds material noncompliance with the underwriting requirements, the master policy provides that coverage may be canceled. The master policy also excludes coverage for fraud and misrepresentation, among other matters. Where our investigation establishes noncompliance or fraud or misrepresentation involving an agent of the lender, we invoke our rights by issuing a letter rescinding coverage on the loan. Following an action to rescind coverage on insured loan certificates, the insured counterparty has 60 days to appeal our decision to rescind such coverage through an appeals process. If an insured counterparty appeals our decision to rescind coverage on given loan certificates and we concur that new or additional information is sufficient for us to reinstate coverage, we take the necessary steps to reinstate uninterrupted insurance coverage and reactivate the loan certificate. If the parties are unable to resolve the dispute within the stated appeal period provided by us and such additional time as the parties may agree to, lenders may choose to pursue arbitration under the master policies and challenge the results. If arbitrated, ultimate resolution of the dispute would be pursuant to a panels binding arbitration award. Challenges to rescissions may be made several years after we have rescinded coverage on an insured loan certificate. Estimated savings related to rescissions are the reduction in carried loss reserves, net of premium refunds and reinstatement of prior rescissions. Estimated savings related to loan modifications and other cure related loss mitigation actions represent the reduction in carried loss reserves. For non cure related actions, including pre sales, the estimated savings represent the difference between the full claim obligation and the actual amount paid. If a loan certificate that was previously rescinded is reinstated and the underlying loan certificate remains delinquent, we re accrue any liabilities that were relieved in connection with our decision to rescind coverage on the loan certificate. Distribution We distribute our mortgage insurance products through our dedicated sales force throughout the United States. This sales force primarily markets to financial institutions and mortgage originators, which in turn offer mortgage insurance products to borrowers. In addition to our field sales force, we also distribute our products through a telephone sales force serving our smaller lenders, as well as through our Action Center which provides live phone and web chat based support for all customer segments. Competition We compete primarily with U.S. and state government agencies, other private mortgage insurers, mortgage lenders and other investors, the GSEs and, potentially, the FHLBs. We also compete, indirectly, with structured transactions in the capital markets and with other financial instruments designed to mitigate credit risk although this last category of competition has been reduced by the dynamics of the financial crisis. U.S. and state government agencies. We and other private mortgage insurers compete for flow business directly with U.S. federal and state governmental and quasi governmental agencies, principally the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and, to a lesser degree, the Veterans Administration (VA). In November 2011, federal legislation was enacted that extended the authority of the FHA to insure loans with initial balances in amounts up to 125% of median area home prices of up to and including $729,750. With this new legislation in place, the FHA now has higher loan limits than does Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in certain metropolitan service areas (MSAs). Accordingly, this could give the FHA a competitive advantage in those MSAs over private mortgage insurance providers. In addition to competition from the FHA and the VA, we and other private mortgage insurers face competition from state supported mortgage insurance funds in several states, including California, Illinois and New York. Private mortgage insurers. During 2011, the competitive landscape of the U.S. private mortgage insurance industry changed significantly with two competitors ceasing to write new business. While we cannot predict the 26 Table of Contents level of impact, continued changes in the competitive landscape of the U.S. private mortgage insurance industry will likely further impact our sales levels. The private mortgage insurance industry currently consists of four mortgage insurers, excluding us. Mortgage lenders and other investors. We and other mortgage insurers compete with transactions structured by mortgage lenders to avoid mortgage insurance on low down payment mortgage loans. These transactions include self insuring and simultaneous second loans, which separate a mortgage with a loan to value ratio of more than 80%, which generally would require mortgage insurance, into two loans: a first mortgage with a loan to value ratio of 80% and a simultaneous second mortgage for the excess portion of the loan. The level of simultaneous second mortgages declined substantially in recent years given the experience from the financial crisis. The GSEs Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and FHLBs. As the predominant purchasers of conventional mortgage loans in the United States, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac provide a direct link between mortgage origination and capital markets. As discussed above, most high loan to value mortgages purchased by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac are insured with private mortgage insurance issued by an insurer deemed qualified by the GSEs. Our U.S. mortgage insurance companies currently are permitted by the GSEs to operate as eligible insurers even though not all eligibility criteria may be met. Private mortgage insurers may be subject to competition from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to the extent the GSEs are compensated for assuming default risk that would otherwise be insured by the private mortgage insurance industry. On February 11, 2011, the Obama Administration issued a white paper setting forth various proposals to gradually eliminate Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. We cannot predict whether or when any proposals will be implemented, and if so in what form, nor can we predict the effect such proposals, if so implemented, would have on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We also compete with structured transactions in the capital markets and with other financial instruments designed to mitigate the risk of mortgage defaults, such as credit default swaps and credit linked notes, with lenders who forego mortgage insurance (self insure) on loans held in their portfolios, and with mortgage lenders who maintain captive mortgage insurance and reinsurance programs. Private mortgage insurers must satisfy requirements set by the GSEs to be eligible to insure loans sold to the GSEs, and the GSEs have the ability to implement new eligibility requirements for mortgage insurers. They also have the authority to change the pricing arrangements for purchasing retained participation mortgages as compared to insured mortgages, increase or reduce required mortgage insurance coverage percentages, and alter or liberalize underwriting standards and pricing terms on low down payment mortgages they purchase. In addition to the GSEs, FHLBs purchase single family conforming mortgage loans. Although not required to do so, the FHLBs currently use mortgage insurance on substantially all mortgage loans with a loan to value ratio above 80%. Corporate and Runoff Division Runoff The Runoff segment includes the results of non strategic products which are no longer actively sold. Our non strategic products include variable annuity, variable life insurance, institutional, corporate owned life insurance and Medicare supplement insurance products. We expect to manage our runoff products for at least the next ten years. Several factors may impact the time period for these products to runoff including the specific policy types, economic conditions and management strategies. 27 Table of Contents The following table sets forth financial information regarding our Runoff segment as of or for the periods indicated. Additional selected financial information and operating performance metrics regarding our Runoff segment as of or for these periods are included under Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Runoff. As of or for the years ended December 31, (Amounts in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Total revenues $ 501 $ 665 $ 672 Net operating income available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders $ 25 $ 30 $ 52 Net investment gains (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments (98 ) (5 ) (127 ) Gain on sale of business, net of taxes 20 Net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders $ (53 ) $ 25 $ (75 ) Total segment assets $ 16,102 $ 18,806 $ 18,968 Products Variable annuities and variable life insurance Our variable annuities provide contractholders the ability to allocate purchase payments and contract value to underlying investment options available in a separate account format. The contractholder bears the risk associated with the performance of investments in the separate account. In addition, some of our variable annuities permit customers to allocate assets to a guaranteed interest account managed within our general account. Certain of our variable annuity products provide contractholders with lifetime guaranteed income benefits. Our variable annuity products generally provide guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDBs) and may provide guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWBs) and certain types of guaranteed annuitization benefits. Variable annuities generally provide us fees including mortality and expense risk charges and, in some cases, administrative charges. The fees equal a percentage of the contractholders policy account value and as of December 31, 2011, range from 0.75% to 4.05% per annum depending on the features and options within a contract. Our variable annuity contracts with a basic GMDB provide a minimum account value to be paid upon the annuitants death. Contractholders may also have the option to purchase riders that provide enhanced death benefits. Assuming every annuitant died on December 31, 2011, as of that date, contracts with death benefit features not covered by reinsurance had an account value of $6,840 million and a related death benefit exposure, or net amount at risk, of $495 million. Some of our variable annuity products provide the contractholder with a guaranteed minimum income stream that they cannot outlive, along with an opportunity to participate in market appreciation. In January 2011, we discontinued new sales of retail and group variable annuities; however, we continue to service our existing block of business which could include additional deposits on existing contracts. Institutional Our institutional products consist of funding agreements, FABNs and GICs, which are deposit type products that pay a guaranteed return to the contractholder on specified dates. We manage the outstanding issuances from two FABN programs: a program registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) offered 28 Table of Contents both to institutional and retail investors and a global medium term notes program sold to institutional investors both domestically and abroad. The registered notes program was discontinued in May 2009 and all SEC reporting obligations under the registered notes program were suspended. We explore the issuance of our institutional products only on an opportunistic basis. Corporate owned life insurance We do not solicit sales of our corporate owned life insurance product; however, we continue to manage our existing block of business. Medicare supplement insurance Our Medicare supplement insurance provides supplemental insurance coverage to seniors who participate in the Medicare program. This product covers deductibles and coinsurance amounts that are not covered by traditional Medicare, which seniors without supplemental coverage would have to pay out of pocket. The product design was standardized in 1992 to provide better clarity for seniors and was revised again in 2008 when Congress passed the Medicare Improvement for Patients and Providers Act. Effective October 1, 2011, we completed the sale of our Medicare supplement insurance business. The transaction included the sale of Continental Life Insurance Company of Brentwood, Tennessee and its subsidiary, American Continental Insurance Company, and the reinsurance of the Medicare supplement insurance in force business written by other Genworth life insurance subsidiaries. See note 8 in our consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Runoff. As of or for the years ended December 31, (Amounts in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Total revenues $ 501 $ 665 $ 672 Net operating income available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders $ 25 $ 30 $ 52 Net investment gains (losses), net of taxes and other adjustments (98 ) (5 ) (127 ) Gain on sale of business, net of taxes 20 Net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders $ (53 ) $ 25 $ (75 ) Total segment assets $ 16,102 $ 18,806 $ 18,968 Products Variable annuities and variable life insurance Our variable annuities provide contractholders the ability to allocate purchase payments and contract value to underlying investment options available in a separate account format. The contractholder bears the risk associated with the performance of investments in the separate account. In addition, some of our variable annuities permit customers to allocate assets to a guaranteed interest account managed within our general account. Certain of our variable annuity products provide contractholders with lifetime guaranteed income benefits. Our variable annuity products generally provide guaranteed minimum death benefits (GMDBs) and may provide guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits (GMWBs) and certain types of guaranteed annuitization benefits. Variable annuities generally provide us fees including mortality and expense risk charges and, in some cases, administrative charges. The fees equal a percentage of the contractholders policy account value and as of December 31, 2011, range from 0.75% to 4.05% per annum depending on the features and options within a contract. Our variable annuity contracts with a basic GMDB provide a minimum account value to be paid upon the annuitants death. Contractholders may also have the option to purchase riders that provide enhanced death benefits. Assuming every annuitant died on December 31, 2011, as of that date, contracts with death benefit features not covered by reinsurance had an account value of $6,840 million and a related death benefit exposure, or net amount at risk, of $495 million. Some of our variable annuity products provide the contractholder with a guaranteed minimum income stream that they cannot outlive, along with an opportunity to participate in market appreciation. In January 2011, we discontinued new sales of retail and group variable annuities; however, we continue to service our existing block of business which could include additional deposits on existing contracts. Institutional Our institutional products consist of funding agreements, FABNs and GICs, which are deposit type products that pay a guaranteed return to the contractholder on specified dates. We manage the outstanding issuances from two FABN programs: a program registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) offered 28 Table of Contents both to institutional and retail investors and a global medium term notes program sold to institutional investors both domestically and abroad. The registered notes program was discontinued in May 2009 and all SEC reporting obligations under the registered notes program were suspended. We explore the issuance of our institutional products only on an opportunistic basis. Corporate owned life insurance We do not solicit sales of our corporate owned life insurance product; however, we continue to manage our existing block of business. Medicare supplement insurance Our Medicare supplement insurance provides supplemental insurance coverage to seniors who participate in the Medicare program. This product covers deductibles and coinsurance amounts that are not covered by traditional Medicare, which seniors without supplemental coverage would have to pay out of pocket. The product design was standardized in 1992 to provide better clarity for seniors and was revised again in 2008 when Congress passed the Medicare Improvement for Patients and Providers Act. Effective October 1, 2011, we completed the sale of our Medicare supplement insurance business. The transaction included the sale of Continental Life Insurance Company of Brentwood, Tennessee and its subsidiary, American Continental Insurance Company, and the reinsurance of the Medicare supplement insurance in force business written by other Genworth life insurance subsidiaries. See note 8 in our consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Investment and Derivative Instruments. Regulation Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation and supervision. General Our insurance operations are subject to a wide variety of laws and regulations. State insurance laws and regulations (Insurance Laws) regulate most aspects of our U.S. insurance businesses, and our U.S. insurers are regulated by the insurance departments of the states in which they are domiciled and licensed. Our non U.S. insurance operations are principally regulated by insurance regulatory authorities in the jurisdictions in which they are domiciled. Our insurance products, and thus our businesses, also are affected by U.S. federal, state and local tax laws, and the tax laws of non U.S. jurisdictions. Our securities operations, including our insurance products that are regulated as securities, such as variable annuities and variable life insurance, also are subject to U.S. federal and state and non U.S. securities laws and regulations. The SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), state securities authorities and similar non U.S. authorities regulate and supervise these products. The primary purpose of the Insurance Laws affecting our insurance and securities businesses and their equivalents in the other countries in which we operate, and the securities laws affecting our variable annuity products, variable life insurance products, registered FABNs, broker/dealers and advisory businesses, is to protect our policyholders, contractholders and clients, not our stockholders. These Insurance Laws are regularly re examined and any changes to these laws or new laws may be more restrictive or otherwise adversely affect our operations. In addition, insurance and securities regulatory authorities (including state law enforcement agencies and attorneys general or their non U.S. equivalents) periodically make inquiries regarding compliance with insurance, securities and other laws and regulations, and we cooperate with such inquiries and take corrective action when warranted. Our distributors and institutional customers also operate in regulated environments. Changes in the regulations that affect their operations may affect our business relationships with them and their decision to distribute or purchase our subsidiaries products. In addition, the Insurance Laws of our U.S. insurers domiciliary jurisdictions and the equivalent laws in the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada and certain other jurisdictions in which we operate require that a person obtain the approval of the applicable insurance regulator prior to acquiring control, and in some cases prior to divesting its control, of an insurer. These laws may discourage potential acquisition proposals and may delay, deter or prevent an investment in or a change of control involving us, or one or more of our regulated subsidiaries, including transactions that our management and some or all of our stockholders might consider desirable. 41 Table of Contents U.S. Insurance Regulation Our U.S. insurers are licensed and regulated in all jurisdictions in which they conduct insurance business. The extent of this regulation varies, but Insurance Laws generally govern the financial condition of insurers, including standards of solvency, types and concentrations of permissible investments, establishment and maintenance of reserves, credit for reinsurance and requirements of capital adequacy, and the business conduct of insurers, including marketing and sales practices and claims handling. In addition, Insurance Laws usually require the licensing of insurers and agents, and the approval of policy forms, related materials and the rates for certain lines of insurance. The Insurance Laws applicable to us or our U.S. insurers are described below. Our U.S. mortgage insurers are also subject to additional insurance laws and regulations applicable specifically to mortgage insurers discussed below under Mortgage Insurance. Insurance holding company regulation All U.S. jurisdictions in which our U.S. insurers conduct business have enacted legislation requiring each U.S. insurer (except captive insurers) in a holding company system to register with the insurance regulatory authority of its domiciliary jurisdiction and furnish that regulatory authority various information concerning the operations of, and the interrelationships and transactions among, companies within its holding company system that may materially affect the operations, management or financial condition of the insurers within the system. These Insurance Laws regulate transactions between insurers and their affiliates, sometimes mandating prior notice to the regulator and or regulatory approval. Generally, these Insurance Laws require that all transactions between an insurer and an affiliate be fair and reasonable, and that the insurers statutory surplus following such transaction be reasonable in relation to its outstanding liabilities and adequate to its financial needs. As a holding company with no significant business operations of our own, we depend on dividends or other distributions from our subsidiaries as the principal source of cash to meet our obligations, including the payment of interest on, and repayment of principal of, any debt obligations. Our U.S. insurers payment of dividends or other distributions is regulated by the Insurance Laws of their respective domiciliary states, and insurers may not pay an extraordinary dividend or distribution, or pay a dividend except out of earned surplus, without prior regulatory approval. In general, an extraordinary dividend or distribution is defined as a dividend or distribution that, together with other dividends and distributions made within the preceding 12 months, exceeds the greater (or, in some jurisdictions, the lesser) of: 10% of the insurers statutory surplus as of the immediately prior year end or the statutory net gain from the insurers operations (if a life insurer) or the statutory net income (if not a life insurer) during the prior calendar year. In addition, insurance regulators may prohibit the payment of ordinary dividends or other payments by our insurers (such as a payment under a tax sharing agreement or for employment or other services) if they determine that such payment could be adverse to our policyholders or contractholders. The Insurance Laws of our U.S. insurers domiciliary jurisdictions require that a person obtain the approval of the insurance commissioner of an insurers domiciliary jurisdiction prior to acquiring control of such insurer. Control of an insurer is generally presumed to exist if any person, directly or indirectly, owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing, 10% or more of the voting securities of the insurer or its ultimate parent entity. In considering an application to acquire control of an insurer, the insurance commissioner generally considers factors such as the experience, competence and financial strength of the applicant, the integrity of the applicants board of directors and executive officers, the acquirers plans for the management and operation of the insurer, and any anti competitive results that may arise from the acquisition. Some states require a person seeking to acquire control of an insurer licensed but not domiciled in that state to make a filing prior to completing an acquisition if the acquirer and its affiliates and the target insurer and its affiliates have specified 42 Table of Contents market shares in the same lines of insurance in that state. These provisions may not require acquisition approval but can lead to imposition of conditions on an acquisition that could delay or prevent its consummation. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) recently adopted significant changes to the insurance holding company act and regulations (the NAIC Amendments). The NAIC Amendments are designed to respond to perceived gaps in the regulation of insurance holding company systems in the United States. One of the major changes is a requirement that an insurance holding company systems ultimate controlling person submit annually to its lead state insurance regulator an enterprise risk report that identifies activities, circumstances or events involving one or more affiliates of an insurer that, if not remedied properly, are likely to have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition or liquidity of the insurer or its insurance holding company system as a whole. Other changes include requiring a controlling person to submit prior notice to its domiciliary insurance regulator of a divestiture of control, detailed minimum requirements for cost sharing and management agreements between an insurer and its affiliates and expansion of the agreements between an insurer and its affiliates to be filed with its domiciliary insurance regulator. The NAIC Amendments must be adopted by the individual state legislatures and insurance regulators in order to be effective. We cannot predict whether the NAIC Amendments will be adopted in whole or in part by these states or the impact, if any, these changes will have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Periodic reporting Our U.S. insurers must file reports, including detailed annual financial statements, with insurance regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction in which they do business, and their operations and accounts are subject to periodic examination by such authorities. Policy forms Our U.S. insurers policy forms are subject to regulation in every U.S. jurisdiction in which they transact insurance business. In most U.S. jurisdictions, policy forms must be filed prior to their use, and in some U.S. jurisdictions, forms must be approved by insurance regulatory authorities prior to use. Market conduct regulation The Insurance Laws of U.S. jurisdictions govern the marketplace activities of insurers, affecting the form and content of disclosure to consumers, product illustrations, advertising, product replacement, sales and underwriting practices, and complaint and claims handling, and these provisions are generally enforced through periodic market conduct examinations. Statutory examinations Insurance departments in U.S. jurisdictions conduct periodic detailed examinations of the books, records, accounts and business practices of domestic insurers. These examinations generally are conducted in cooperation with insurance departments of two or three other states or jurisdictions representing each of the NAIC zones, under guidelines promulgated by the NAIC. Guaranty associations and similar arrangements Most jurisdictions in which our U.S. insurers are licensed require those insurers to participate in guaranty associations which pay contractual benefits owed under the policies of impaired or insolvent insurers. These associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on each member insurer in a jurisdiction on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by such insurer in the lines of business in which the impaired, insolvent or failed insurer is engaged. Some jurisdictions permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through full or partial premium tax offsets. Aggregate assessments levied against our U.S. insurers were not material to our consolidated financial statements. 43 Table of Contents Policy and contract reserve sufficiency analysis The Insurance Laws of their domiciliary jurisdictions require our U.S. life insurers to conduct annual analyses of the sufficiency of their life and health insurance and annuity reserves. Other jurisdictions where insurers are licensed may have certain reserve requirements that differ from those of their domiciliary jurisdictions. In each case, a qualified actuary must submit an opinion stating that the aggregate statutory reserves, when considered in light of the assets held with respect to such reserves, make good and sufficient provision for the insurers associated contractual obligations and related expenses. If such an opinion cannot be provided, the insurer must establish additional reserves by transferring funds from surplus. Our U.S. life insurers submit these opinions annually to their insurance regulatory authorities. Different reserve requirements exist for our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries. See Reserves Mortgage Insurance. Surplus and capital requirements Insurance regulators have the discretionary authority, in connection with maintaining the licensing of our U.S. insurers, to limit or restrict insurers from issuing new policies, or policies having a dollar value over certain thresholds, if, in the regulators judgment, the insurer is not maintaining a sufficient amount of surplus or is in a hazardous financial condition. We seek to maintain new business and capital management strategies to support meeting related regulatory requirements. Risk based capital The NAIC has established Risk Based Capital (RBC) standards for U.S. life insurers, as well as a risk based capital model act (RBC Model Act). All 50 states and the District of Columbia have adopted the RBC Model Act or a substantially similar law or regulation. The RBC Model Act requires that life insurers annually submit a report to state regulators regarding their RBC based upon four categories of risk: asset risk, insurance risk, interest rate and market risk, and business risk. The capital requirement for each is generally determined by applying factors which vary based upon the degree of risk to various asset, premium and reserve items. The formula is an early warning tool to identify possible weakly capitalized companies for purposes of initiating further regulatory action. If an insurers RBC fell below specified levels, it would be subject to different degrees of regulatory action depending upon the level, ranging from requiring the insurer to propose actions to correct the capital deficiency to placing the insurer under regulatory control. As of December 31, 2011, the RBC of each of our U.S. life insurance subsidiaries exceeded the level of RBC that would require any of them to take or become subject to any corrective action. Statutory accounting principles U.S. insurance regulators developed statutory accounting principles (SAP) as a basis of accounting used to monitor and regulate the solvency of insurers. Since insurance regulators are primarily concerned with ensuring an insurers ability to pay its current and future obligations to policyholders, statutory accounting conservatively values the assets and liabilities of insurers, generally in accordance with standards specified by the insurers domiciliary jurisdiction. Uniform statutory accounting practices are established by the NAIC and are generally adopted by regulators in the various U.S. jurisdictions. Due to differences in methodology between SAP and U.S. GAAP, the values for assets, liabilities and equity reflected in financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP are materially different from those reflected in financial statements prepared under SAP. 44 Table of Contents Regulation of investments Each of our U.S. insurers is subject to Insurance Laws that require diversification of its investment portfolio and which limit the proportion of investments in different asset categories. Assets invested contrary to such regulatory limitations must be treated as non admitted assets for purposes of measuring surplus, and, in some instances, regulations require divestiture of such non complying investments. We believe the investments made by our U.S. insurers comply with these Insurance Laws. Federal regulation of insurance products Most of our variable annuity products, some of our fixed guaranteed products, and all of our variable life insurance products, as well as our FABNs issued as part of our registered notes program are securities within the meaning of federal and state securities laws, are registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and are subject to regulation by the SEC. See Other Laws and Regulations Securities regulation. These products may also be indirectly regulated by FINRA as a result of FINRAs regulation of broker/dealers and may be regulated by state securities authorities. Federal and state securities regulation similar to that discussed below under Other Laws and Regulations Securities regulation affects investment advice and sales and related activities with respect to these products. In addition, although the federal government does not comprehensively regulate the business of insurance, federal legislation and administrative policies in several areas, including taxation, financial services regulation, and pension and welfare benefits regulation, can also significantly affect the insurance industry. Dodd Frank Act and other federal initiatives Although the federal government generally does not directly regulate the insurance business, federal initiatives often, and increasingly, have an impact on the business in a variety of ways. From time to time, federal measures are proposed which may significantly affect the insurance business, including limitations on antitrust immunity, tax incentives for lifetime annuity payouts, simplification bills affecting tax advantaged or tax exempt savings and retirement vehicles, and proposals to modify or eliminate the estate tax. In addition, various forms of direct federal regulation of insurance have been proposed in recent years. In response to the recent financial crisis, the Dodd Frank Act was enacted and signed into law in July 2010. The Dodd Frank Act made extensive changes to the laws regulating financial services firms and requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations. Among other provisions, the Dodd Frank Act provides for a new framework of regulation of over the counter (OTC) derivatives markets which will require us to clear through clearing organizations certain types of transactions currently traded in the OTC derivative markets and may limit our ability to customize certain derivative transactions for our needs. In addition, we will likely experience additional collateral requirements and costs associated with derivative transactions. The Dodd Frank Act also authorizes the SEC to adopt regulations that could impose heightened standards of care on sellers of variable or other registered products, which could adversely affect sales of and reduce margins on these products. In the case of our U.S. mortgage insurance business, the Dodd Frank Act requires securitizers to retain some of the risk associated with mortgage loans they sell or securitize, unless the mortgage loans are qualified residential mortgages or unless the securitization or security is partially or fully exempted by regulations to be promulgated. The Dodd Frank Act provides that the definition of qualified residential mortgages will be determined by regulators, with consideration to be given, among other things, to the presence of mortgage insurance. The legislation also prohibits a creditor from making a residential mortgage loan unless the creditor makes a reasonable and good faith determination that, at the time the loan is consummated, the consumer has a reasonable ability to repay the loan. These provisions will be clarified in federal rules and regulations to be adopted. In addition, the Dodd Frank Act creates a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, which regulates certain aspects of the offering and provision of consumer financial products or services but not the business of insurance. This Bureau may issue rules or regulations that indirectly affect our U.S. mortgage insurance business 45 Table of Contents and may assert jurisdiction over regulatory or enforcement matters in lieu of or in addition to the existing jurisdiction of other federal or state agencies. Additionally, a Residential Mortgage Backed Securities Working Group was recently formed under President Obamas Financial Fraud Enforcement Task Force to investigate misconduct contributing to the financial crisis through the pooling and sale of residential mortgage backed securities. This Task Force may seek to evaluate the broader U.S. mortgage insurance industry, including our U.S. mortgage insurance business, in the conduct of its work. The Dodd Frank Act also establishes a Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC), which is authorized to subject non bank financial companies deemed systemically significant to stricter prudential standards and other requirements and to subject such companies to a special orderly liquidation process outside the federal Bankruptcy Code, administered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Insurance company subsidiaries of systemically significant companies would remain subject to liquidation and rehabilitation proceedings under state law, although the FSOC is authorized to direct that such a proceeding be commenced against the insurer under state law. Systemically significant companies are also required to prepare resolution plans, so called living wills, that set out how they could most efficiently be liquidated if they endangered the U.S. financial system or the broader economy. Insurance companies that are found to be systemically significant are permitted, in some circumstances, to submit abbreviated versions of such plans. Proposed rules regarding heightened prudential standards for systemically significant companies would impose new capital, liquidity, counterparty credit exposure and governance standards, and they would also subject such companies to restrictions on their activities and management if they appear to be at risk of liquidation. There are no exceptions for insurance companies in these proposed regulations. In addition, the Dodd Frank Act establishes a Federal Insurance Office within the Department of the Treasury. While not having a general supervisory or regulatory authority over the business of insurance, the director of this office will perform various functions with respect to insurance, including serving as a non voting member of the FSOC and making recommendations to the FSOC regarding insurers to be designated for more stringent regulation. The director is also required to conduct a study on how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the United States, including by increasing national uniformity through either a federal charter or effective action by the states. The Dodd Frank Act imposes new restrictions on the sponsorship of and investment in private equity funds and hedge funds by companies that are affiliated with an insured depository institution. While we are not affiliated with such an institution or with anyone who is, these restrictions may affect the value and salability of any interest we may have in such funds. Federal agencies have been given significant discretion in drafting the rules and regulations that will implement the Dodd Frank Act. In addition, this legislation mandated multiple studies and reports for Congress, which could in some cases result in additional legislative or regulatory action. We cannot predict the requirements of the regulations ultimately adopted under the Dodd Frank Act or any such additional legislation, the effect such legislation or regulations will have on financial markets generally, or on our businesses specifically, the additional costs associated with compliance with such regulations or legislation, or any changes to our operations that may be necessary to comply with the Dodd Frank Act, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. We also cannot predict whether other federal initiatives will be adopted or what impact, if any, such initiatives, if adopted as laws, may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in tax laws Changes in tax laws could make some of our products more or less attractive to consumers. For example, the federal estate tax exclusion amount was recently increased to $5 million, as adjusted for inflation ($5,120,000 for 2012), by the Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010. The legislation also permits a surviving spouse to succeed to any unused federal estate tax exclusion amount of the deceased spouse. This permits the beneficiary of a survivorship life policy to receive a larger death benefit free of estate tax on the second spouses death than would have been allowed under prior law, potentially making 46 Table of Contents such policies more attractive to affluent customers. However, since the estate tax exclusion had been $3.5 million in 2009, and our policyholders are generally not high net worth individuals who would be subject to the estate tax, we believe that these developments will have little effect on current sales of life insurance. The scheduled reversion of individual income tax, dividend and capital gain rates to previous levels in tax years after 2010 was put on hold for two years, delaying to at least 2013 any incentive provided by rising tax rates for investors to buy our fixed deferred annuity products. U.K. Insurance Regulation General Insurance and reinsurance businesses in the United Kingdom are subject to regulation by the Financial Services Authority (FSA), which has authorized certain of our U.K. subsidiaries to effect and carry out contracts of insurance in the United Kingdom. Insurers authorized by the FSA in the United Kingdom are generally able to operate throughout the European Union, subject to satisfying certain FSA requirements and, in some cases, additional local regulatory provisions. Certain of our U.K. subsidiaries operate in other European Union member states through establishment of branch offices. Supervision The FSA has adopted a risk based approach to the supervision of insurers whereby it periodically performs a formal risk assessment of insurance companies or groups conducting business in the United Kingdom. After each risk assessment, the FSA will inform the insurer of its views on the insurers risk profile, including details of remedial action the FSA requires and the likely consequences of not taking such actions. The FSA also supervises the management of insurance companies through the approved persons regime, which subjects to FSA approval any person who performs certain specified controlled functions for or in relation to a regulated entity. In addition, the FSA supervises the sale of general insurance, including certain lifestyle protection and mortgage insurance products. Under FSA rules, persons involved in the sale of general insurance (including insurers and distributors) are prohibited from offering or accepting any inducement in connection with the sale of general insurance that is likely to conflict materially with their duties to insureds. Although the rules do not generally require disclosure of broker compensation, the insurer or distributor must disclose broker compensation at the insureds request. The U.K. government announced in 2010 that the FSA will be replaced by two new agencies, the Prudential Regulatory Authority (PRA) and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The PRA will be responsible for prudential regulation of banks and insurers, while the FCA will be responsible for the conduct of business regulation and the wholesale and retail markets. The legislation covering this change is anticipated to be passed during the course of 2012. Our U.K. insurance subsidiaries will be subject to regulation by both the PRA and the FCA. Solvency requirements Under FSA rules, insurers must maintain a minimum amount of capital resources for solvency purposes at all times, the calculation of which depends on the type, amount and claims history of the insurer. Failure to maintain the required minimum amount of capital resources is one of the grounds on which the FSA may exercise its wide powers of intervention. In addition, an insurer that is part of a group is required to perform and submit to the FSA a capital resources calculation return in respect of the following: The solvency capital resources available to the U.K. insurers European group defined by reference to the U.K. insurers ultimate parent company domiciled in the European Economic Area. The solvency capital resources available to the U.K. insurers worldwide group defined by reference to the U.K. insurers ultimate parent company. This requirement is only a reporting requirement. 47 Table of Contents There will be fundamental changes to the existing solvency capital regime for all insurers and reinsurers operating in Europe as a result of the introduction of the Solvency II directive. Currently, these changes are expected to be effective by January 1, 2014 with a transition period starting on January 1, 2013. At this stage, it is not possible to predict the impact these changes will have on our operations. Restrictions on dividend payments The U.K. Companies Act 2006 prohibits U.K. companies from making a distribution such as a dividend to their stockholders unless they have profits available for distribution, the determination of which is based on the companys audited accumulated realized profits (so far as not previously utilized by distribution) less its accumulated realized losses (so far as not previously written off). Intervention and enforcement The FSA has extensive powers to intervene in the affairs of an insurer or authorized person and has the power, among other things, to enforce and take disciplinary measures in respect of breaches of its rules. Such powers include the power to vary or withdraw any authorizations. Bermuda Insurance Regulation The Bermuda Monetary Authority (the BMA) regulates all financial institutions operating in or from Bermuda, including our Bermudian captive insurance companies. Specific regulation varies in Bermuda depending on whether the insurance company has been granted a long term business license or a general business license and by the class under which each company falls within such licenses. Regardless of license or class, all companies are required to maintain minimum capital and surplus levels and minimum solvency standards and are subject to auditing and reporting requirements. Under Bermudas Insurance Act 1978, in addition to the ability to pay dividends from retained earnings subject to certain procedures and compliance with applicable financial margins, Bermuda insurance companies may distribute up to 15% of their total paid in or contributed capital without the prior approval of the BMA. Insurance companies may apply to the BMA to make distributions in excess of such level. In recent years, the BMA has issued numerous detailed proposals to enhance its solvency, governance and disclosure requirements for insurance companies. The BMA has indicated that such requirements have been proposed in order for Bermuda to achieve consistency with changes being developed by other leading insurance regulators worldwide, and in so doing achieve equivalence with Solvency II. Until the BMA finalizes such proposals, we cannot be certain of their impact on our Bermudian captive insurance companies or the impact, if any, on our business, financial condition or results of operation. At the present time, however, we believe that each of our Bermudian captive insurance companies will meet or exceed the new solvency requirements in Bermuda. Mortgage Insurance State regulation General Mortgage insurers generally are limited by Insurance Laws to writing mortgage insurance business exclusively, prohibiting our mortgage insurers from directly writing other types of insurance. Mortgage insurers are not subject to the NAICs RBC requirements but are subject to other capital requirements placed directly on mortgage insurers. Generally, mortgage insurers are required by certain states and other regulators to maintain a risk to capital ratio not to exceed 25:1. North Carolina law grants discretion to the Commissioner of the North Carolina Department of Insurance (NCDOI), which is the domiciliary insurance regulator for our U.S. mortgage insurers, through mid 2015 to allow a mortgage insurer to exceed the 25:1 requirement if the 48 Table of Contents Commissioner finds that such insurers contingency reserves and surplus are reasonable in relationship to its aggregate insured risk and adequate to its financial needs, taking into account a number of specified factors. Similar legislative or regulatory initiatives have been proposed or enacted in a number of other states that impose a similar risk to capital requirement on mortgage insurers. As of December 31, 2011, Genworth Mortgage Insurance Corporation (GEMICO), our primary U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiary, exceeded the maximum risk to capital ratio of 25:1 established under North Carolina law and enforced by the NCDOI. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, GEMICOs risk to capital ratio was approximately 32.9:1 and 23.8:1, respectively. However, effective January 31, 2011, the NCDOI granted GEMICO a revocable two year waiver of compliance with its risk to capital requirement. The waiver, which the NCDOI can modify or terminate at any time in its discretion, gives GEMICO the ability to continue to write new business in North Carolina during the period covered by the waiver, notwithstanding that GEMICOs risk to capital ratio exceeds 25:1. Thirty four of the states in which GEMICO operates do not impose their own risk to capital requirements; consequently, GEMICO is permitted to continue to write business in those states so long as it is permitted to write business in North Carolina. Sixteen states (including North Carolina) impose their own risk to capital requirements. Of these 16 states, 12 granted revocable waivers (or the equivalent) of their risk to capital requirements to allow GEMICO to continue to write new business, although two such waivers are no longer in effect as of December 31, 2011. Consequently, GEMICO was authorized to write new business in 44 states as of December 31, 2011. GEMICO is unable to write new business in the six states with risk to capital requirements where it was not able to obtain or no longer operates with the benefit of a waiver. From December 31, 2010 until July 31, 2011 in the case of three of these states (and for a longer period for the fourth state), we wrote new insurance through another of our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries, Genworth Residential Mortgage Insurance Corporation of North Carolina (GRMIC NC). With the approval of applicable state insurance regulators and the GSEs, after July 31, 2011, we began writing new business through Genworth Residential Mortgage Assurance Corporation (GRMAC) in three of these states (and after December 31, 2011, in the two additional states with alternative risk to capital waiver limitations) while continuing to use GRMIC NC to write new business in the sixth state. Freddie Macs and Fannie Maes approvals of this arrangement expire on July 31, 2012 and December 31, 2012, respectively. Reserves Insurance Laws require our U.S. mortgage insurers to establish a special statutory contingency reserve in their statutory financial statements to provide for losses in the event of significant economic declines. Annual additions to the statutory contingency reserve must equal 50% of net earned premiums as defined by Insurance Laws. These contingency reserves generally are held until the earlier of (i) the time that loss ratios exceed 35% or (ii) ten years, although regulators have granted discretionary releases from time to time. This reserve reduces the policyholder surplus of our U.S. mortgage insurers, and therefore, their ability to pay dividends to us. Since the loss ratio of our U.S. mortgage insurers exceeded 35% in 2011, the regulator granted us approval to release a portion of the statutory contingency reserve in accordance with prescribed Insurance Laws. As a result, the statutory contingency reserve for our U.S. mortgage insurers was approximately $4 million as of December 31, 2011. Federal regulation In addition to federal laws that directly affect mortgage insurers, private mortgage insurers are affected indirectly by federal legislation and regulation affecting mortgage originators and lenders, by purchasers of mortgage loans such as Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, and by governmental insurers such as the FHA and VA. For example, changes in federal housing legislation and other laws and regulations that affect the demand for private mortgage insurance may have a material effect on private mortgage insurers. Legislation or regulation that increases the number of people eligible for FHA or VA mortgages could have a materially adverse effect on our ability to compete with the FHA or VA. 49 Table of Contents The Homeowners Protection Act provides for the automatic termination, or cancellation upon a borrowers request, of private mortgage insurance upon satisfaction of certain conditions. The Homeowners Protection Act applies to owner occupied residential mortgage loans regardless of lien priority and to borrower paid mortgage insurance closed after July 29, 1999. FHA loans are not covered by the Homeowners Protection Act. Under the Homeowners Protection Act, automatic termination of mortgage insurance would generally occur once the loan to value ratio reaches 78%. A borrower generally may request cancellation of mortgage insurance once the actual payments reduce the loan balance to 80% of the homes original value. For borrower initiated cancellation of mortgage insurance, the borrower must have a good payment history as defined by the Homeowners Protection Act. The Real Estate Settlement and Procedures Act of 1974 (RESPA) applies to most residential mortgages insured by private mortgage insurers. Mortgage insurance has been considered in some cases to be a settlement service for purposes of loans subject to RESPA. Subject to limited exceptions, RESPA precludes us from providing services to mortgage lenders free of charge, charging fees for services that are lower than their reasonable or fair market value, and paying fees for services that others provide that are higher than their reasonable or fair market value. In addition, RESPA prohibits persons from giving or accepting any portion or percentage of a charge for a real estate settlement service, other than for services actually performed. Although many states prohibit mortgage insurers from giving rebates, RESPA has been interpreted to cover many non fee services as well. Mortgage insurers and their customers are subject to the possible sanctions of this law, which may be enforced by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Administration (HUD), state insurance departments, state attorneys general and other enforcement authorities. The Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA) and the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) also affect the business of mortgage insurance in various ways. ECOA, for example, prohibits discrimination against certain protected classes in credit transactions. FCRA governs the access and use of consumer credit information in credit transactions and requires notices to consumers in certain circumstances. Most originators of mortgage loans are required to collect and report data relating to a mortgage loan applicants race, nationality, gender, marital status and census tract to HUD or the Federal Reserve under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 (HMDA). The purpose of HMDA is to detect possible impermissible discrimination in home lending and, through disclosure, to discourage such discrimination. Mortgage insurers are not required to report HMDA data although, under the laws of several states, mortgage insurers currently are prohibited from discriminating on the basis of certain classifications. Mortgage insurers have, through Mortgage Insurance Companies of America, entered voluntarily into an agreement with the Federal Financial Institutions Examinations Council to report the same data on loans submitted for insurance as is required for most mortgage lenders under HMDA. International regulation Canada The Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions (OSFI) provides oversight to all federally incorporated financial institutions, including our Canadian mortgage insurance company, Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Company Canada, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Genworth Canada. OSFI does not have enforcement powers over market conduct issues in the insurance industry, which are a provincial responsibility. The Bank Act, Insurance Companies Act and Trust and Loan Companies Act prohibit Canadian banks, trust companies and insurers from extending mortgage loans where the loan value exceeds 80% of the propertys value, unless mortgage insurance is obtained in connection with the loan. As a result, all mortgages issued by these financial institutions with a loan to value ratio exceeding 80% must be insured by a qualified insurer or CMHC. Legislation became effective in Canada in 2010 that, among other things, amended these statutes to prohibit such financial institutions from charging borrowers amounts for mortgage insurance that exceed the lenders actual costs and impose new disclosure obligations in respect of mortgage insurance. 50 Table of Contents The Government Guarantee Agreement in place with the Canadian government guarantees the benefits payable under mortgage insurance policies, less 10% of the original principal amount of an insured loan, in the event that we fail to make claim payments with respect to that loan because of insolvency. We pay the Canadian government a risk premium for this guarantee and make other payments to a reserve fund in respect of the governments obligation. Because banks are not required to maintain regulatory capital on an asset backed by a sovereign guarantee, our 90% sovereign guarantee permits lenders purchasing our mortgage insurance to reduce their regulatory capital charges for credit risks on mortgages by 90%. In addition to recent amendments made to the Government Guarantee Agreement, the Canadian Department of Finance has informed us that they intend to continue to review the Government Guarantee Agreement we have with the Canadian government and we remain engaged in ongoing discussions with Department of Finance officials on this matter. The Insurance Companies Act of Canada provides that dividends may only be declared by the board of directors of the Canadian insurer and paid if there are reasonable grounds to believe that the payment of the dividend would not cause the insurer to be in violation of its minimum capital and liquidity requirements. Also, we are required to notify OSFI at least 15 days prior to the dividend payment date. The legislative requirement in Canada to obtain mortgage insurance on high loan to value mortgages and the favorable capital treatment given to financial institutions because of our 90% sovereign guarantee effectively preclude these financial institutions from issuing simultaneous second mortgage products similar to those offered in the United States. As a public company that is traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange (the TMX), Genworth Canada is subject to securities laws and regulation in each province in Canada, as well as the reporting requirements of the TMX. Australia APRA regulates all ADIs in Australia and life, general and mortgage insurance companies. APRAs license conditions require Australian mortgage insurers to be monoline insurers, which are insurers offering just one type of insurance product. APRAs regulations apply to individual licensed insurers and to the relevant Australian based holding company and group. APRA also sets minimum capital levels and monitors corporate governance requirements, including our risk management strategy. In this regard, APRA reviews our management, controls, processes, reporting and methods by which all risks are managed, including an annual financial condition report and an annual report on insurance liabilities by an appointed actuary. APRA also requires us to submit our risk management strategy and reinsurance management strategy, which outlines our use of reinsurance in Australia, annually and more frequently if there are material changes. In setting minimum capital levels for mortgage insurers, APRA requires them to ensure they have sufficient capital to withstand a hypothetical three year stress loss scenario defined by APRA. These regulations include increased mortgage insurers capital requirements for insured loans that are considered to be non standard. APRA also imposes quarterly reporting obligations on mortgage insurers with respect to risk profiles, reinsurance arrangements and financial position. During 2010, APRA issued detailed proposals to revise the capital requirements for all insurers it regulates. Following receipt of feedback from the industry, including quantitative analyses from market participants, APRA published updated proposals in March and December 2011. These proposals will, subject to feedback, be incorporated in revised prudential and reporting standards during 2012 with an effective date in January 2013. The current drafts of the new standards do not appear to indicate a material change to the regulatory capital requirements for our business. As these standards have not yet been finalized, we are unable to determine the ultimate impact that these new regulations will have on our regulatory capital requirements. 51 Table of Contents In addition, APRA determines the capital requirements for ADIs and has reduced capital requirements for certain ADIs that insure residential mortgages with an acceptable mortgage insurer for all non standard mortgages and for standard mortgages with loan to value ratios above 80%. APRAs regulations currently set out a number of circumstances in which a loan may be considered to be non standard from an ADIs perspective. APRA rules also provide that LMI on a non performing loan (90 days plus arrears) protects most ADIs from having to increase the regulatory capital on the loan to a risk weighting of 100%. These regulations include a definition of an acceptable mortgage insurer and eliminate the reduced capital requirements for ADIs in the event that the mortgage insurer has contractual recourse to the ADI or a member of the ADIs consolidated group. In December 2010, the Australian government announced a series of banking reforms designed to promote greater competition in the Australian banking industry. One key aspect of the proposals involved boosting consumer flexibility to transfer deposits and mortgages. In particular, the Australian government announced that it would consider instructing the Australian treasury department to accelerate the development of potential frameworks to transfer LMI policies between lenders and introduce a central registry for mortgages. Currently, LMI policies are not transportable between lenders and are issued to a particular lender in respect of a particular loan. In our Australian mortgage insurance business, we offer rebate options to lenders whereby up to 40% of the premium is refunded to the consumer if the loan is discharged in the first year, decreasing to 20% in the second year of the mortgage, although many lenders elect to take a non refundable option in order to receive a lower overall premium structure. The Australian government has subsequently announced that it does not intend to make LMI portable but rather seek the introduction of a LMI Key Fact Sheet which lenders will be required to give to borrowers. APRA has the power to impose restrictions on our ability to declare and pay dividends based on a number of factors, including the impact on our minimum regulatory capital ratio. United Kingdom and Europe The United Kingdom is a member of the European Union and applies the harmonized system of regulation set out in the European Union directives. Our authorization to provide mortgage insurance in the United Kingdom enables us to offer our products in all the European Union member states, subject to certain regulatory requirements of the FSA and, in some cases, local regulatory requirements. We can provide mortgage insurance only in the classes for which we have authorization under applicable regulations and must maintain required risk and capital reserves. We are also subject to the oversight of other regulatory agencies in other countries throughout Europe where we do business. For more information about U.K. insurance regulation that affects our mortgage subsidiaries that operate in the United Kingdom, see U.K. Insurance Regulation. Other Non U.S. Insurance Regulation We operate in a number of countries around the world in addition to the United States, Canada, Australia, the United Kingdom and Bermuda. Generally, our subsidiaries (and in some cases our branches) conducting business in these countries must obtain licenses from local regulatory authorities and satisfy local regulatory requirements, including those relating to rates, forms, capital, reserves and financial reporting. Other Laws and Regulations Securities regulation Certain of our U.S. subsidiaries and certain policies, contracts and services offered by them, are subject to regulation under federal and state securities laws and regulations of the SEC, state securities regulators and FINRA. Certain of our U.S. subsidiaries are investment advisors registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 or applicable state securities laws. Certain of their employees are licensed as investment advisory representatives in states as required by state law. Two of our U.S. investment adviser subsidiaries manage 52 Table of Contents investment companies that are registered with the SEC under the Investment Company Act of 1940. In addition, most of our insurance company separate accounts are registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Most of our variable annuity contracts and all of our variable life insurance policies, as well as our FABNs issued by one of our U.S. subsidiaries as part of our registered notes program are registered under the Securities Act of 1933. Certain of our U.S. subsidiaries are registered and regulated as broker/dealers under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and are members of, and subject to regulation by FINRA, as well as by various state and local regulators. The registered representatives of our broker/dealers are also regulated by the SEC and FINRA and are subject to applicable state and local laws. These laws and regulations are primarily intended to protect investors in the securities markets and generally grant supervisory agencies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict the conduct of business for failure to comply with such laws and regulations. In such event, the possible sanctions that may be imposed include suspension of individual employees, limitations on the activities in which the investment adviser or broker/dealer may engage, suspension or revocation of the investment adviser or broker/ dealer registration, censure or fines. We may also be subject to similar laws and regulations in the states and other countries in which we provide investment advisory services, offer the products described above or conduct other securities related activities. Certain of our U.S. subsidiaries also sponsor and manage investment vehicles that rely on certain exemptions from registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the Securities Act of 1933. Nevertheless, certain provisions of the Investment Company Act of 1940 and the Securities Act of 1933 apply to these investment vehicles and the securities issued by such vehicles in certain circumstances. The Investment Company Act of 1940, the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Securities Act of 1933, including the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, are subject to change, which may affect our U.S. subsidiaries that sponsor and manage such investment vehicles. The SEC, FINRA, state attorneys general, other federal offices and the New York Stock Exchange may conduct periodic examinations, in addition to special or targeted examinations of us and or specific products. These examinations or inquiries may include, but are not necessarily limited to, product disclosures and sales issues, financial and accounting disclosure and operational issues. Often examinations are sweep exams whereby the regulator reviews current issues facing the financial or insurance industry as a whole. Reverse mortgage regulation Genworth Financial Home Equity Access, Inc. (GFHEA), our wholly owned subsidiary, is an originator of reverse mortgage loans. GFHEA is subject to various federal and state laws and regulations including mortgage banking laws and regulations (Mortgage Banking Laws), as well as other federal and state laws and regulations protecting privacy and other consumer rights. GFHEA is regulated by the mortgage banking departments of the states in which it is licensed, as well as the FHA with respect to loans insured through HUD. In addition, mortgage banking authorities (including state law enforcement agencies and attorneys general) increasingly make inquiries regarding compliance with Mortgage Banking Laws and other applicable laws and regulations, and we cooperate with such inquiries and take corrective action when warranted. HUD conducts periodic, detailed examinations of the loans and business practices of issuers of reverse mortgage loans it insures. Environmental considerations As an owner and operator of real property, we are subject to extensive U.S. federal and state and non U.S. environmental laws and regulations. Potential environmental liabilities and costs in connection with any required remediation of such properties is also an inherent risk in property ownership and operation. In addition, we hold equity interests in companies, and have made loans secured by properties, that could potentially be subject to environmental liabilities. We routinely have environmental assessments performed with respect to real estate 53 Table of Contents being acquired for investment and real property to be acquired through foreclosure. We cannot provide assurance that unexpected environmental liabilities will not arise. However, based upon information currently available to us, we believe that any costs associated with compliance with environmental laws and regulations or any remediation of such properties will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. ERISA considerations We provide certain products and services to employee benefit plans that are subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) or the Internal Revenue Code. As such, our activities are subject to the restrictions imposed by ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code, including the requirement under ERISA that fiduciaries must perform their duties solely in the interests of ERISA plan participants and beneficiaries, and fiduciaries may not cause or permit a covered plan to engage in certain prohibited transactions with persons who have certain relationships with respect to such plans. The applicable provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code are subject to enforcement by the U.S. Department of Labor, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. USA PATRIOT Act The USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the Patriot Act), enacted in response to the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, contains anti money laundering and financial transparency laws and mandates the implementation of various new regulations applicable to broker/dealers and other financial services companies including insurance companies. The Patriot Act seeks to promote cooperation among financial institutions, regulators and law enforcement entities in identifying parties who may be involved in terrorism or money laundering. Anti money laundering laws outside of the United States contain similar provisions. The increased obligations of financial institutions to identify their customers, watch for and report suspicious transactions, respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement agencies, and share information with other financial institutions, require the implementation and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls. We believe that we have implemented, and that we maintain, appropriate internal practices, procedures and controls to enable us to comply with the provisions of the Patriot Act. Certain additional requirements became applicable under the Patriot Act in May 2006 through a U.S. Treasury regulation which required that certain insurers have anti money laundering compliance plans in place. We believe our internal practices, procedures and controls comply with these requirements. Privacy of consumer information U.S. federal and state laws and regulations require financial institutions, including insurance companies, to protect the security and confidentiality of consumer financial information and to notify consumers about the companies policies and practices relating to their collection and disclosure of consumer information and their policies relating to protecting the security and confidentiality of that information. Similarly, federal and state laws and regulations also govern the disclosure and security of consumer health information. In particular, regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and the Federal Trade Commission regulate the disclosure and use of protected health information by health insurers and others, the physical and procedural safeguards employed to protect the security of that information, including certain notice requirements in the event of security breaches, and the electronic transmission of such information. Congress and state legislatures are expected to consider additional legislation relating to privacy and other aspects of consumer information. In Europe, the collection and use of personal information is subject to strict regulation. The European Unions Data Protection Directive establishes a series of privacy requirements that European Union member states are obliged to enact into their national legislation. Certain European Union countries have additional national law requirements regarding the use of private data. Other European countries that are not European 54 Table of Contents Union member states have similar privacy requirements in their national laws. These requirements generally apply to all businesses, including insurance companies. In general, companies may process personal information only if consent has been obtained from the individuals concerned or if certain other conditions are met. These other requirements include the provision of notice to customers and other persons concerning how their personal information is used and disclosed, limitations on the transfer of personal information to countries outside the European Union, registration with the national privacy authorities, where applicable, and the use of appropriate information security measures against the access or use of personal information by unauthorized persons. Similar laws and regulations protecting the security and confidentiality of consumer and financial information are also in effect in Canada, Australia and other countries in which we operate. Employees As of December 31, 2011, we had approximately 6,400 full time and part time employees. We believe our employee relations are satisfactory. Directors and Executive Officers See Part III, Item 10 of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for information about our directors and executive officers. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available, without charge, on our website, www.genworth.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports with the SEC. Our SEC filings are also accessible through the Internet on the SECs web site at www.sec.gov. Copies are also available, without charge, from Genworth Investor Relations, 6620 West Broad Street, Richmond, VA 23230. Our website also includes the charters of our Audit Committee, Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Legal and Public Affairs Committee, and Management Development and Compensation Committee, any key practices of these committees, our Governance Principles, and our companys code of ethics. Copies of these materials also are available, without charge, from Genworth Investor Relations, at the above address. Within the time period required by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange, we will post on our website any amendment to our code of ethics and any waiver applicable to any of our directors, executive officers or senior financial officers. On May 27, 2011, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer certified to the New York Stock Exchange that he was not aware of any violation by us of the New York Stock Exchanges corporate governance listing standards. Transfer Agent and Registrar Our Transfer Agent and Registrar is Computershare Shareowner Services LLC, P.O. Box 358015, Pittsburgh, PA 15252 8015. Telephone: 866 229 8413; 201 680 6578 (outside the United States and Canada may call collect); and 800 231 5469 (for hearing impaired). Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks. These risks could materially affect our business, results of operations or financial condition, cause the trading price of our common stock to decline materially or cause our actual results to differ materially from those expected or those expressed in any forward looking statements 55 Table of Contents made by us or on our behalf. These risks are not exclusive, and additional risks to which we are subject include, but are not limited to, the factors mentioned under Cautionary note regarding forward looking statements and the risks of our businesses described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2011. Risks Relating to Our Businesses Downturns and volatility in global economies and equity and credit markets could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our results of operations are materially affected by the state of the global economies in which we operate and conditions in the capital markets we access. Factors such as higher unemployment, lower consumer spending, lower business investment, higher government spending, the volatility and strength of the global capital markets, and inflation all affect the business and economic environment and, ultimately, the amount and profitability of our business. The recessionary state and the volatility of many economies have fueled uncertainty and downturns in global mortgage markets have contributed to increased volatility in our business and results of operations. This uncertainty and volatility has impacted, and may continue to impact, the demand for certain financial and insurance products. As a result, we may experience an elevated incidence of claims and lapses or surrenders of policies, and some of our policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums or stop paying insurance premiums altogether. If domestic and international equity and credit markets experience heightened volatility and turmoil, issuers that have exposure to the mortgage and credit markets would be particularly affected. These events would have an adverse effect on us, in part because we have exposure to such issuers in our investment portfolio and also because such events can influence customer behavior. In addition, given continuing economic challenges, issuers of the fixed income securities and commercial mortgage loans that we own may default on principal and interest payments and we could experience significant declines in the value of our investment portfolio. Securities that are less liquid could also become more difficult to value and could be hard to dispose of in this economic environment. The economic downturn has had, and continues to have, an adverse effect on our ability to efficiently access capital markets for capital management purposes, including the issuance of fixed and floating rate non recourse funding obligations for purposes of supporting our term and universal life insurance products. If credit markets remain tight, this could have a continuing adverse impact on our profitability, liquidity and access to funding opportunities. Downturns and volatility in equity markets may also cause some existing customers to withdraw cash values or reduce investments in our separate account products, which include variable annuities. In addition, if the performance of the underlying mutual funds in the separate account products experience downturns and volatility for an extended period of time, the payment of any living benefit guarantee available in certain variable annuity products may have an adverse effect on us, because more payments will be required to come from general account assets than from contractholder separate account investments. Continued equity market volatility could result in additional losses in our variable annuity products and associated hedging program which will further challenge our ability to recover deferred acquisition costs (DAC) on these products and could lead to additional write offs of DAC, as well as increased hedging costs. Our revenues and returns from our mutual fund wrapped and separately managed account products and services could also be impacted by downturns and volatility in equity markets. Because these products and services generate fees generally from the value of assets under management, a decline in the equity markets could reduce our revenues by reducing the value of the investment assets we manage. Downturns in equity markets could also lead to an increase in liabilities associated with secondary guarantee features, such as guaranteed minimum benefits on separate account products, where we have equity market risk exposure. 56 Table of Contents A downgrade or a potential downgrade in our financial strength or credit ratings could result in a loss of business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Financial strength ratings, which various rating agencies publish as measures of an insurance companys ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations, are important to maintaining public confidence in our products, the ability to market our products and our competitive position. Credit ratings, which rating agencies publish as measures of an entitys ability to repay its indebtedness, are important to our ability to raise capital through the issuance of debt and other forms of credit and to the cost of such financing. A ratings downgrade could occur for a variety of reasons, including reasons specifically related to our company, generally related to our industry or the broader financial services industry or as a result of changes by the rating agencies in their methodologies or rating criteria. A negative outlook on our ratings or a downgrade in any of our financial strength or credit ratings, the announcement of a potential downgrade, or customer concerns about the possibility of a downgrade, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These direct or indirect effects could include: reducing new sales of insurance products, annuities and other investment products; requiring us to modify some of our existing products or services to remain competitive, or introduce new products or services; adversely affecting our relationships with key distributors, independent sales intermediaries and our dedicated sales specialists, including the loss of exclusivity under certain agreements with our independent sales intermediaries; materially increasing the number or amount of policy surrenders and withdrawals by contractholders and policyholders; requiring us to post additional collateral or terminate contracts under the terms of agreements with derivative counterparties, or to provide support in the form of collateral, capital contributions or letters of credit under the terms of certain of our reinsurance, securitization and other agreements; adversely affecting our ability to maintain reinsurance assumed or obtain new reinsurance or obtain it on reasonable pricing terms; adversely affecting our ability to raise capital; and increasing our cost of borrowing. In addition, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac require maintenance of a financial strength rating by at least two out of three listed rating agencies (S&P, Fitch and Moodys) of at least AA /Aa3 (as applicable); otherwise additional limitations or requirements may be in the case of Fannie Mae or will be in the case of Freddie Mac imposed for eligibility to insure loans purchased by the GSEs. In February 2008, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac temporarily suspended their ratings requirements for top tier mortgage insurers, subject to submission of an acceptable remediation plan. We have submitted remediation plans to both GSEs and to date have not been advised that either intends to impose additional requirements upon us. As of December 31, 2011, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac purchased the majority of the flow loans we insured in the United States. An inability to insure mortgage loans sold to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, or their transfer of our existing policies to an alternative mortgage insurer, would have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Interest rate fluctuations and levels could adversely affect our business and profitability. Our insurance and investment products are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations and expose us to the risk that falling interest rates or credit spreads will reduce our margin or the difference between the returns we earn on the investments that support our obligations under these products and the amounts that we must pay to policyholders and contractholders. Because we may reduce the interest rates we credit on most of these products only at limited, pre established intervals, and because some contracts have guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates, declines in interest rates have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the profitability of these products. 57 Table of Contents During periods of increasing market interest rates, we may offer higher crediting rates on interest sensitive products, such as universal life insurance and fixed annuities, and we may increase crediting rates on in force products to keep these products competitive. In addition, rapidly rising interest rates may cause increased policy surrenders, withdrawals from life insurance policies and annuity contracts and requests for policy loans, as policyholders and contractholders shift assets into higher yielding investments. Increases in crediting rates, as well as surrenders and withdrawals, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including the requirement to liquidate fixed income investments in an unrealized loss position to satisfy surrenders or withdrawals. Our life and long term care insurance products, as well as our guaranteed benefits on variable annuities, also expose us to the risk of interest rate fluctuations. The pricing and expected future profitability of these products are based in part on expected investment returns. Over time, life and long term care insurance products generally produce positive cash flows as customers pay periodic premiums, which we invest as they are received. Low interest rates increase reinvestment risk and reduce our ability to achieve our targeted investment margins and may adversely affect the profitability of our life and long term care insurance products and may increase hedging costs on our in force block of variable annuity products. A prolonged low interest rate environment may negatively impact the sufficiency of our margins on our DAC and present value of future profits (PVFP), which could result in an impairment of these assets. In addition, certain statutory capital requirements are based on models that consider interest rates. Prolonged periods of low interest rates may increase the statutory capital we are required to hold as well as the amount of assets we must maintain to support statutory reserves. In both the U.S. and international mortgage markets, rising interest rates generally reduce the volume of new mortgage originations. A decline in the volume of new mortgage originations would have an adverse effect on our new mortgage insurance written. Rising interest rates also can increase the monthly mortgage payments for insured homeowners with adjustable rate mortgages (ARMs) that could have the effect of increasing default rates on ARM loans and thereby increasing our exposure on our mortgage insurance policies. This is particularly relevant in our international mortgage insurance business where ARMs are the predominant mortgage product. Declining interest rates historically have increased the rate at which borrowers refinance their existing mortgages, thereby resulting in cancellations of the mortgage insurance covering the refinanced loans. Declining interest rates historically also have contributed to home price appreciation, which may provide borrowers in the United States with the option of cancelling their mortgage insurance coverage earlier than we anticipated when pricing that coverage. These cancellations could have an adverse effect on our results from our U.S. mortgage insurance business. However, under current housing market conditions, we are in a period of home price depreciation in a majority of U.S. markets. Consequently, some borrowers in the United States do not have sufficient equity to allow refinancing of existing higher rate ARMs for lower rate mortgage loans, an action that would typically result in the cancellation of existing mortgage insurance coverage. Such borrowers are now contributing to higher delinquencies and foreclosures where they are not able to meet the reset higher monthly payments due under the terms of the underlying ARMs. These developments have had an adverse impact on our U.S. mortgage insurance business. Interest rate fluctuations also could have an adverse effect on the results of our investment portfolio. During periods of declining market interest rates, the interest we receive on variable interest rate investments decreases. In addition, during those periods, we may have to reinvest the cash we receive as interest or return of principal on our investments in lower yielding high grade instruments or in lower credit instruments to maintain comparable returns. Issuers of fixed income securities may also decide to prepay their obligations in order to borrow at lower market rates, which exacerbates the risk that we may have to invest the cash proceeds of these securities in lower yielding or lower credit instruments. During periods of increasing interest rates, market values of lower yielding assets will decline. In addition, our interest rate hedges will decline which will require us to post additional collateral with our derivative counterparties. 58 Table of Contents Adverse capital and credit market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital and may affect our ability to meet liquidity or refinancing requirements in the future. In addition, we are seeking to extend, replace or refinance, in part, our credit facilities that expire in May and August 2012; however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to extend, replace or refinance these facilities on terms (or at targeted amounts) acceptable to us or at all. In the event market or other conditions have an adverse impact on our capital and liquidity needs beyond expectations and our sources of liquidity do not satisfy our needs, we could have to seek additional funding. We may also need to seek additional funding to refinance existing indebtedness or to build buffers and manage overall capital and risk profiles at the holding company. Funding sources could potentially include the generation of proceeds from the sale of assets (including assets in our investment portfolio, blocks of business or all or a portion of a business) or the incurrence of additional debt. In addition, funding sources could potentially include issuing equity, with any decision to issue equity considering the degree to which such an equity issuance would dilute current stockholders value. All such funding sources could have adverse impacts on our financial condition, including book value, and results of operations. The availability of additional funding will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, regulatory considerations, the general availability of credit, the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry, the level of activity and availability of reinsurers or acquirers of assets, our credit ratings and credit capacity and the performance of and outlook for our business. Market conditions may make it difficult to obtain funding or complete asset sales to generate additional liquidity, especially on short notice. Our access to funding may be further impaired if our credit or financial strength ratings are negatively impacted. Specifically with respect to our credit facilities that expire in May and August 2012, we are currently exploring the potential replacement, in part, of these facilities for a lower principal amount of permitted borrowings and letters of credit or by pursuing alternative strategies. As of December 31, 2011, we had no borrowings outstanding under our credit facilities and had utilized $257 million under these facilities primarily for the issuance of letters of credit for the benefit of one of our life insurance subsidiaries. Due to potentially adverse credit market conditions generally or potentially adverse outlooks with respect to our industry or the company in particular, there can be no assurance that we will be able to extend, replace or refinance these facilities on terms (or at targeted amounts) acceptable to us or at all. Our valuation of fixed maturity, equity and trading securities may include methodologies, estimations and assumptions that are subject to differing interpretations and could result in changes to investment valuations that may materially adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Fixed maturity, equity and trading securities are reported at fair value on our consolidated balance sheets. They represent the majority of our total cash, cash equivalents and invested assets. Our portfolio of fixed maturity securities consists primarily of investment grade securities. Valuations may include inputs and assumptions that are less observable or require greater estimation, as well as valuation methods that are more sophisticated or require greater estimation, thereby resulting in values that are less certain and may vary significantly from the value at which the investments may be ultimately sold. The methodologies, estimates and assumptions we use in valuing our investment securities evolve over time and are subject to different interpretation (including based on developments in relevant accounting literature), all of which can lead to changes in the value of our investment securities. Rapidly changing and unprecedented credit and equity market conditions could materially impact the valuation of investment securities as reported within our consolidated financial statements, and the period to period changes in value could vary significantly. Decreases in value may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Defaults, downgrades or other events impacting the value of our fixed maturity securities portfolio may reduce our income. We are subject to the risk that the issuers or guarantors of fixed maturity securities we own may default on principal or interest payments they owe us. As of December 31, 2011, fixed maturity securities of $58.3 billion in 59 Table of Contents our investment portfolio represented 76% of our total cash, cash equivalents and invested assets. Events reducing the value of our investment portfolio other than on a temporary basis could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Levels of write downs or impairments are impacted by our assessment of the financial condition of the issuer, whether or not the issuer is expected to pay its principal and interest obligations or circumstances that would require us to sell securities which have declined in value. Our investment portfolio contains investments in securities in multiple nations, including companies domiciled in the European Union. Recently, the European Union member states have experienced increases in their debt levels as a percentage of gross domestic product as well as increased inflation and unemployment as the global economic downturn has developed. Financial troubles of certain nations can trigger financial implications in other nations. In particular, a number of large European banks hold significant amounts of sovereign financial institution debt of other European nations and could experience difficulties as a result of defaults or declines in the value of such debt. If we determine to reposition or realign portions of the portfolio where we determine to sell certain securities in an unrealized loss position, we will incur an other than temporary impairment charge. Defaults on our commercial mortgage loans or the mortgage loans underlying our investments in commercial mortgage backed securities and volatility in performance may adversely affect our profitability. Our commercial mortgage loans and investments in commercial mortgage backed securities face default risk. Commercial mortgage loans are stated on our consolidated balance sheets at unpaid principal balance, adjusted for any unamortized premium or discount, deferred fees or expenses, and are net of impairments and valuation allowances. We establish valuation allowances for estimated impairments as of the balance sheet date based on information, such as the market value of the underlying real estate securing the loan, any third party guarantees on the loan balance or any cross collateral agreements and their impact on expected recovery rates. Commercial mortgage backed securities are stated on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value. In addition, some of our commercial mortgage loans and the underlying mortgage loans supporting our investments in commercial mortgage backed securities have balloon payment maturities. Further, any concentration of geographic or sector exposure in our commercial mortgage loans or the mortgage loans underlying our investments in commercial mortgage backed securities may have adverse effects on our investment portfolio and consequently on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. While we seek to mitigate this risk by having a broadly diversified portfolio, events or developments that have a negative effect on any particular geographic region or sector may have a greater adverse effect on the investment portfolios to the extent that the portfolios are exposed. We may be required to recognize impairments in the value of our goodwill, which would increase our expenses and reduce our U.S. GAAP profitability. Goodwill represents the excess of the amount we paid to acquire our subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their net assets at the date of the acquisition. Under U.S. GAAP, we test the carrying value of goodwill for impairment at least annually at the reporting unit level, which is either an operating segment or a business one level below the operating segment. Goodwill is impaired if the fair value of the reporting unit as a whole is less than the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, plus the carrying value of goodwill, at the date of the test. For example, goodwill may become impaired if the fair value of a reporting unit as a whole were to decline by an amount greater than the decline in the value of its individually identifiable assets and liabilities. This may occur for various reasons, including changes in actual or expected income or cash flows of a reporting unit or generation of income by a reporting unit at a lower rate of return than similar businesses or for decreases in our market capitalization. If any portion of our goodwill becomes impaired, we would be required to recognize the amount of the impairment as a non cash expense in the current period. See note 8 in our consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, our consolidated financial statements, the related notes and the accompanying independent registered public accounting firms report (which refers to changes in accounting for embedded credit derivatives and variable interest entities in 2010 and for other than temporary impairments in 2009), which are included in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Years ended December 31, (Amounts in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Consolidated Statements of Income Information Revenues: Premiums $ 5,705 $ 5,854 $ 6,019 $ 6,777 $ 6,330 Net investment income 3,380 3,266 3,033 3,730 4,135 Net investment gains (losses) (1) (220 ) (143 ) (1,041 ) (1,709 ) (332 ) Insurance and investment product fees and other 1,479 1,112 1,058 1,150 992 Total revenues 10,344 10,089 9,069 9,948 11,125 Benefits and expenses: Benefits and operating expenses 9,524 9,556 9,468 10,420 9,038 Interest expense 506 457 393 470 481 Total benefits and expenses 10,030 10,013 9,861 10,890 9,519 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 314 76 (792 ) (942 ) 1,606 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 53 (209 ) (393 ) (370 ) 452 Income (loss) from continuing operations 261 285 (399 ) (572 ) 1,154 Income from discontinued operations, net of taxes (2) 15 Gain on sale of discontinued operations, net of taxes (2) 51 Net income (loss) 261 285 (399 ) (572 ) 1,220 Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interests (3) 139 143 61 Net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders $ 122 $ 142 $ (460 ) $ (572 ) $ 1,220 Income (loss) from continuing operations per common share: Basic $ 0.53 $ 0.58 $ (0.88 ) $ (1.32 ) $ 2.62 Diluted (4) $ 0.53 $ 0.58 $ (0.88 ) $ (1.32 ) $ 2.58 Net income (loss) available to Genworth Financial, Inc.s common stockholders per common share Basic $ 0.25 $ 0.29 $ (1.02 ) $ (1.32 ) $ 2.77 Diluted (4) $ 0.25 $ 0.29 $ (1.02 ) $ (1.32 ) $ 2.73 Weighted average common shares outstanding: (5) Basic 490.6 489.3 451.1 433.2 439.7 Diluted (4) 493.5 493.9 451.1 433.2 447.6 Cash dividends declared per common share (6) $ $ $ $ 0.30 $ 0.38 92 Table of Contents Years ended December 31, (Amounts in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Selected Segment Information Total revenues: U.S. Life Insurance $ 6,130 $ 5,786 $ 4,797 $ 5,589 $ 6,093 International Protection 1,022 1,112 1,301 1,557 1,529 Wealth Management 453 352 278 330 336 International Mortgage Insurance 1,507 1,372 1,259 1,350 1,160 U.S. Mortgage Insurance 719 754 826 851 805 Runoff 501 665 672 252 1,129 Corporate and Other 12 48 (64 ) 19 73 Total $ 10,344 $ 10,089 $ 9,069 $ 9,948 $ 11,125 Income (loss) from continuing operations: U.S. Life Insurance $ 432 $ 292 $ (115 ) $ (64 ) $ 494 International Protection 93 74 45 127 127 Wealth Management 47 40 28 42 43 International Mortgage Insurance 496 513 396 481 453 U.S. Mortgage Insurance (477 ) (559 ) (427 ) (368 ) 171 Runoff (53 ) 25 (75 ) (598 ) 28 Corporate and Other (277 ) (100 ) (251 ) (192 ) (162 ) Total $ 261 $ 285 $ (399 ) $ (572 ) $ 1,154 Consolidated Balance Sheet Information Total investments $ 71,904 $ 68,437 $ 63,515 $ 60,612 $ 70,800 All other assets (7) 42,398 43,958 44,672 46,777 43,515 Total assets $ 114,302 $ 112,395 $ 108,187 $ 107,389 $ 114,315 Policyholder liabilities $ 70,193 $ 69,169 $ 69,220 $ 73,291 $ 72,977 Non recourse funding obligations 3,256 3,437 3,443 3,455 3,455 Short term borrowings 930 1,133 200 Long term borrowings 4,726 4,952 3,641 4,261 3,903 All other liabilities 18,462 19,866 17,603 16,323 20,302 Total liabilities $ 96,637 $ 97,424 $ 94,837 $ 98,463 $ 100,837 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) $ 4,021 $ 1,492 $ (164 ) $ (3,062 ) $ 727 Noncontrolling interests (3) $ 1,124 $ 1,110 $ 1,074 $ $ Total stockholders equity $ 17,665 $ 14,971 $ 13,350 $ 8,926 $ 13,478 U.S. Statutory Financial Information (8) Statutory capital and surplus (9) $ 4,604 $ 4,885 $ 5,878 $ 6,436 $ 6,597 Asset valuation reserve $ 149 $ 133 $ 56 $ 320 $ 430 (1) On April 1, 2009, we adopted new accounting guidance related to the recognition and presentation of other than temporary impairments. This accounting guidance modified the presentation of other than temporary impairments for certain debt securities to only present the impairment loss in net income (loss) that represents the credit loss associated with the other than temporary impairment with the remaining impairment loss being presented in other comprehensive income (loss). For further discussion, refer to note 2 in our consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our consolidated financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Overview Our business We are a leading financial security company dedicated to providing insurance, wealth management, investment and financial solutions to more than 15 million customers, with a presence in more than 25 countries. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2011, we changed our operating business segments to better align our businesses. Under the new structure, we operate through three divisions: Insurance and Wealth Management, Mortgage Insurance and Corporate and Runoff. Under these divisions, there are six operating business segments. The Insurance and Wealth Management Division includes the following operating business segments: U.S. Life Insurance (which includes our life insurance, long term care insurance and fixed annuities businesses), International Protection (which includes our lifestyle protection insurance business) and Wealth Management. The Mortgage Insurance Division includes the following operating business segments: International Mortgage Insurance and U.S. Mortgage Insurance. The Corporate and Runoff Division includes the Runoff segment and Corporate and Other activities. The Runoff segment includes the results of non strategic products which are no longer actively sold. These changes allow us to sharpen our focus on common aspects within each group of businesses while taking advantage of current financial synergies. Financial information has been updated for all periods to reflect the reorganized segment reporting structure. The following discussion reflects our reorganized operating segments: U.S. Life Insurance. We offer and manage a variety of insurance and fixed annuity products. Our primary insurance products include life and long term care insurance. International Protection. We are a leading provider of payment protection coverages (referred to as lifestyle protection) in multiple European countries. Our lifestyle protection insurance products primarily help consumers meet specified payment obligations should they become unable to pay due to accident, illness, involuntary unemployment, disability or death. Wealth Management. We offer and manage a variety of wealth management products that include managed account programs together with advisor support and financial planning services. International Mortgage Insurance. We are a leading provider of mortgage insurance products and related services in Canada, Australia, Mexico and multiple European countries. Our products predominantly insure prime based, individually underwritten residential mortgage loans, also known as flow mortgage insurance. On a limited basis, we also provide mortgage insurance on a structured, or bulk, basis that aids in the sale of mortgages to the capital markets and helps lenders manage capital and risk. Additionally, we offer services, analytical tools and technology that enable lenders to operate efficiently and manage risk. U.S. Mortgage Insurance. In the United States, we offer mortgage insurance products predominantly insuring prime based, individually underwritten residential mortgage loans, also known as flow mortgage insurance. We selectively provide mortgage insurance on a bulk basis with essentially all of our bulk writings prime based. Additionally, we offer services, analytical tools and technology that enable lenders to operate efficiently and manage risk. Runoff. The Runoff segment includes the results of non strategic products which are no longer actively sold. Our non strategic products include our variable annuity, variable life insurance, institutional, corporate owned life insurance and Medicare supplement insurance products. Institutional products consist of: funding agreements, FABNs and GICs. In January 2011, we discontinued new sales of retail 95 Table of Contents and group variable annuities while continuing to service our existing blocks of business. Effective October 1, 2011, we completed the sale of our Medicare supplement insurance business. We also have Corporate and Other activities which include debt financing expenses that are incurred at our holding company level, unallocated corporate income and expenses, eliminations of inter segment transactions and the results of other non core businesses. Our financial information The financial information in this Annual Report on Form 10 K has been derived from our consolidated financial statements. Revenues and expenses Our revenues consist primarily of the following: U.S. Life Insurance. The revenues in our U.S. Life Insurance segment consist primarily of: net premiums earned on individual term life insurance, individual and group long term care insurance and single premium immediate annuities with life contingencies; net investment income and net investment gains (losses) on the segments separate investment portfolios; and insurance and investment product fees and other, including surrender charges, mortality and expense risk charges, primarily from universal life insurance policies, and other administrative charges. International Protection. The revenues in our International Protection segment consist primarily of: net premiums earned on lifestyle protection insurance policies; net investment income and net investment gains (losses) on the segments separate investment portfolio; and insurance and investment product fees and other, primarily third party administration fees. Wealth Management. The revenues in our Wealth Management segment consist primarily of: management fees and commissions and other administrative charges. International Mortgage Insurance. The revenues in our International Mortgage Insurance segment consist primarily of: net premiums earned on international mortgage insurance policies; and net investment income and net investment gains (losses) on the segments separate investment portfolio. U.S. Mortgage Insurance. The revenues in our U.S. Mortgage Insurance segment consist primarily of: net premiums earned on U.S. mortgage insurance policies and premiums assumed through our inter segment reinsurance with our international mortgage insurance business; net investment income and net investment gains (losses) on the segments separate investment portfolio; and fee revenues from contract underwriting services. 96 Table of Contents Runoff. The revenues in our Runoff segment consist primarily of: net investment income and net investment gains (losses) on the segments separate investment portfolios; and insurance and investment product fees and other, including mortality and expense risk charges, primarily from variable annuity contracts, and other administrative charges. Corporate and Other. The revenues in Corporate and Other consist primarily of: unallocated net investment income and net investment gains (losses); and insurance and investment product fees from non core businesses and eliminations of inter segment transactions. Our expenses consist primarily of the following: benefits provided to policyholders and contractholders and changes in reserves; interest credited on general account balances; acquisition and operating expenses, including commissions, marketing expenses, policy and contract servicing costs, overhead and other general expenses that are not capitalized (shown net of deferrals); amortization of DAC and other intangible assets; goodwill impairment charges; interest and other financing expenses; and income taxes. We allocate corporate expenses to each of our operating segments using a methodology that includes allocated capital. Managements discussion and analysis by segment contains selected operating performance measures including sales, assets under management and insurance in force or risk in force which are commonly used in the insurance and investment industries as measures of operating performance. Management regularly monitors and reports sales metrics as a measure of volume of new and renewal business generated in a period. Sales refer to: (1) annualized first year premiums for term life, long term care and Medicare supplement insurance; (2) new and additional premiums/deposits for universal and term universal life insurance, linked benefits, fixed and variable products; (3) gross and net flows, which represent gross flows less redemptions, for our wealth management business; (4) written premiums and deposits, gross of ceded reinsurance and cancellations, and premium equivalents, where we earn a fee for administrative services only business, for our lifestyle protection insurance business; and (5) new insurance written for mortgage insurance. Sales do not include renewal premiums on policies or contracts written during prior periods. We consider annualized first year premiums, new premiums/deposits, gross and net flows, written premiums, premium equivalents and new insurance written to be a measure of our operating performance because they represent a measure of new sales of insurance policies or contracts during a specified period, rather than a measure of our revenues or profitability during that period. Management regularly monitors and reports assets under management for our wealth management business, insurance in force and risk in force. Assets under management for our wealth management business represent third party assets under management that are not consolidated in our financial statements. Insurance in force for our life, international mortgage and U.S. mortgage insurance businesses is a measure of the aggregate face value of outstanding insurance policies as of the respective reporting date. For our risk in force in our international mortgage insurance business, we have computed an effective risk in force amount, which recognizes that the loss on any particular loan will be reduced by the net proceeds received upon sale of the property. Effective risk in force has been calculated by applying to insurance in force a factor of 35% that represents our highest 97 Table of Contents expected average per claim payment for any one underwriting year over the life of our businesses in Canada, Australia and New Zealand. Risk in force for our U.S. mortgage insurance business is our obligation that is limited under contractual terms to the amounts less than 100% of the mortgage loan value. We consider assets under management for our wealth management business, insurance in force and risk in force to be a measure of our operating performance because they represent a measure of the size of our business at a specific date which will generate revenues and profits in a future period, rather than a measure of our revenues or profitability during that period. We also include information related to loss mitigation activities for our U.S. mortgage insurance business. We define loss mitigation activities as rescissions, cancellations, borrower loan modifications, repayment plans, lender and borrower titled pre sales, claims administration and other loan workouts. Estimated savings related to rescissions are the reduction in carried loss reserves, net of premium refunds and reinstatement of prior rescissions. Estimated savings related to loan modifications and other cure related loss mitigation actions represent the reduction in carried loss reserves. For non cure related actions, including pre sales, the estimated savings represent the difference between the full claim obligation and the actual amount paid. We believe that this information helps to enhance the understanding of the operating performance of our U.S. mortgage insurance business as loss mitigation activities specifically impact current and future loss reserves and level of claim payments. These operating measures enable us to compare our operating performance across periods without regard to revenues or profitability related to policies or contracts sold in prior periods or from investments or other sources. Business trends and conditions Our business is, and we expect will continue to be, influenced by a number of industry wide and product specific trends and conditions. General conditions and trends affecting our businesses Financial and economic environment. The stability of both the financial markets and global economies in which we operate impacts the sales, revenue growth and profitability trends of our businesses. Equity markets, credit markets and interest rate spreads generally improved during 2011 but experienced higher volatility and widening spreads in the second half of 2011. Although global financial markets experienced some improvement since 2010, the European debt crisis and concerns regarding the U.S. economy impacted the recovery. The U.S. housing market reflected continuing stress and growing levels of foreclosures with variations in performance by sub market, including signs of stabilization within certain regions while others declined. Unemployment and underemployment levels in the United States remained relatively constant with the fourth quarter of 2010 and throughout 2011 with a slight decline in December 2011. We expect unemployment and underemployment levels in the United States to stabilize at elevated levels and gradually decrease over time though remain elevated for an extended period. In Canada, the housing market was pressured by a smaller refinance market while home prices remained relatively stable in the market segment we serve and unemployment levels increased slightly from the third quarter of 2011. In Australia, the housing market has remained fairly stable with home prices and unemployment remaining consistent with the third quarter of 2011. Consumers in Australia remained cautious given higher interest rates, higher costs of living, general concerns about the global economy and slow recovery in regions impacted by the recent natural disasters. Europe remained a slow growth environment with lower lending activity and reduced consumer spending, particularly in Greece, Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Italy, in part as a result of the European debt crisis and actual or anticipated austerity initiatives. See Trends and conditions affecting our segments below for a discussion regarding the impacts the financial markets and global economies have on our businesses. Slow or varied levels of economic growth, coupled with uncertain financial markets and economic outlooks, changes in government policy, regulatory reforms and other changes in market conditions, influenced, and we 98 Table of Contents believe will continue to influence, investment and spending decisions by consumers and businesses as they adjust their consumption, debt, capital and risk profiles in response to these conditions. These trends change as investor confidence in the markets and the outlook for some consumers and businesses shift. As a result, our sales, revenues and profitability trends of certain insurance and investment products have been and could be further impacted negatively or positively going forward. In particular, factors such as government spending, monetary policies, the volatility and strength of the capital markets, anticipated tax policy changes and the impact of global financial regulation reform will continue to affect economic and business outlooks and consumer behaviors moving forward. The U.S. government, Federal Reserve and other legislative and regulatory bodies have taken certain actions to support the economy and capital markets, influence interest rates, influence housing markets and mortgage servicing and provide liquidity to promote economic growth. These include various mortgage restructuring programs implemented or under consideration by the GSEs, lenders, servicers and the U.S. government. Outside of the United States, various governments previously took actions to stimulate economies, stabilize financial systems and improve market liquidity. In general, these actions had a positive effect on these countries and their markets; however, there can be no assurance as to the future level of impact these types of actions may have on the economic and financial markets, including levels of volatility. A delayed economic recovery period, a U.S. or global recession or regional or global financial crisis could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We manage our product offerings, investment and asset liability management strategies to moderate risk especially during periods of strained economic and financial market conditions. In addition, we continue to review our product and distribution management strategies to align with our strengths, profitability targets and risk tolerance. These and other company actions should enhance our competitive position as well as our capital flexibility and liquidity. Volatility in credit and investment markets. During the fourth quarter of 2011, markets were characterized by volatility due to increased uncertainty regarding the European economy and continuing concern over potential financial disruption emanating from the region, particularly early in the fourth quarter of 2011. Despite steps taken by the European Union and U.S. Federal Reserve to increase liquidity, stabilize bank funding and reduce funding costs for the European peripherals, markets remained skittish. Positive signs in the U.S. economy began to appear, but European contagion fears and year end risk aversion dampened demand for riskier asset classes, and the continuing flight to quality kept U.S. Treasury yields low. Demand for both high quality corporate bonds and structured products did increase toward the end of the quarter, resulting in some spread tightening, particularly once U.S. domestic data began to beat market expectations, and the correlation to negative sentiment related to Europes issues subsided. We recorded net other than temporary impairments of $132 million during 2011, which were lower than 2010 levels and we expect losses to moderate further from prior year levels. Even though certain segments of the marketplace are still experiencing declines in the performance of collateral underlying certain structured securities, impairments of structured securities in our investment portfolio declined further in 2011 from the 2010 levels. However, impairments related to corporate securities increased during 2011 largely as a result of expected restructuring of two private placement debt securities in the third quarter of 2011. Although economic conditions may continue to negatively impact certain investment valuations, the underlying collateral associated with our securities that have not been impaired continues to perform. Looking ahead, we believe that the current credit environment provides us with opportunities to invest across a variety of asset classes to meet our yield requirements, as well as to continue execution of various risk management disciplines involving further diversification within the investment portfolio. See Investments and Derivative Instruments for additional information on our investment portfolio. 99 Table of Contents Trends and conditions affecting our segments U.S. Life Insurance Life insurance. Results of our life insurance business are impacted by sales, mortality, persistency, investment yields, expenses, reinsurance and statutory reserve requirements. Additionally, sales of our products and persistency of our insurance in force are dependent on competitive product features and pricing, effective distribution and customer service. Life insurance sales increased during 2011 compared to 2010 from sales of our term universal and universal life insurance products. Sales of our term universal life insurance product were up 16% in 2011 versus the traditional term and term universal life insurance sales in the prior year. Annualized first year deposits of our universal life insurance products increased 14% in 2011 compared to the prior year. We believe our life insurance products have been effectively priced for the middle and emerging affluent markets as reflected in recent trends. More recently, we have raised certain product prices, chosen not to follow certain competitors price reductions and moved to tighten pricing assumptions given the low interest rate environment. Therefore, we expect reduced sales levels in 2012. Shifts in consumer demand, relative pricing, return on capital or reinsurance decisions and other factors could also affect our sales levels. Throughout 2010 and into 2011, we experienced favorable mortality results in our term life insurance products as compared to priced mortality assumptions. During this same period, while less severe in 2011 than in prior years, we have experienced lower persistency as compared to pricing assumptions for 10 year term life insurance policies as they go through their post level rate period. We expect this trend in persistency to continue as these 10 year term life insurance policies go through their post level rate period and then moderate thereafter. Regulations XXX and AXXX require insurers to establish additional statutory reserves for term life insurance policies with long term premium guarantees and for certain universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees. This increases the capital required to write these products. The alternatives available to finance the increased reserve requirements on some of our in force books of business have over time become limited or more expensive. Despite this, committed funding sources are in place for approximately 95% of our anticipated peak level reserves required under Regulations XXX and AXXX. In addition, the NAIC has formed a Joint Working Group to review the statutory reserve requirements of Regulation AXXX impacting certain universal life insurance policies with secondary guarantees. While the Joint Working Group has issued a draft conceptual framework for public comment, it is too early to assess the magnitude of the affect the framework would have on reserving requirements, if adopted, or changes to regulatory capital requirements. However, we expect changes to such requirements and this could impact future sales and product design. Long term care insurance. Results of our long term care insurance business are influenced by sales, morbidity, mortality, persistency, investment yields, expenses and reinsurance. Additionally, sales of our products are impacted by the relative competitiveness of our offerings based on product features and pricing, including our ability to implement future rate actions as deemed necessary. In recent years, industry wide first year annualized premiums of long term care insurance declined during the recession and rebounded as the economy stabilized. This positive trend continued during 2011. Sales of our individual long term care insurance product increased 45% in 2011 versus the prior year due in part to overall sales growth in the market and to competitor actions. These trends combined with the impacts of the progress made on our multiple growth initiatives relating to distribution effectiveness and broadening of our individual and group offerings have resulted in increased sales. Given these developments, we have increased both pricing and utilization of reinsurance in the form of coinsurance to improve profitability and capacity for new business. We have reinsured through coinsurance 40% of our most recent individual long term care product offerings. Sales of our individual long term care insurance products increased in the fourth quarter of 2011 due in part to the recent introduction of a new, higher priced product with the higher pricing catalyzing sales of the prior 100 Table of Contents product. We expect sales to moderate in 2012. We expect our sales levels could be further impacted by shifts in consumer demand, relative pricing, pricing of next generation products, return on capital and reinsurance decisions and other factors. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, higher claims than priced for in older issued policies which negatively impact our results of operations. We continue pursuing initiatives including: new product issuance and service offerings; investing in care coordination capabilities; refining underwriting requirements; maintaining tight expense management; actively exploring additional reinsurance strategies; executing effective investment strategies; and considering other actions to improve business profitability and the performance of the overall block. These efforts include evaluating the need for future in force rate increases, where warranted, on older issued policies. In this regard, we began filing for a rate increase of 18% on two blocks of older long term care insurance policies in November 2010. As of December 31, 2011, we have received approvals in 39 states which represent approximately 65% of the targeted premiums. The state approval process of an in force rate increase and the amount of the rate increase varies, and in certain states the decision to approve or decline can take up to two years. Upon approval, premium increases may only occur on an insureds billing anniversary date. Therefore, the benefits of any rate increase may not be fully realized until the implementation is complete. Changes in regulations or government programs, including long term care insurance rate action legislation could impact our long term care insurance business positively or negatively. As such, we continue to actively monitor regulatory developments. Fixed annuities. Results of our fixed annuities business are affected by investment performance, interest rate levels, slope of the interest rate yield curve, net interest spreads, mortality, policyholder surrenders, new product sales and competitiveness of our offerings. Our competitive position within many of our distribution channels and our ability to grow this business depends on many factors, including product offerings and relative pricing. In fixed annuities, sales may fluctuate as a result of consumer demand, changes in interest rates, credit spreads, relative pricing, return on capital decisions, and our disciplined approach to managing risk. We have re priced fixed annuities to maintain or increase spreads and targeted returns. Looking ahead, we will continue to actively evaluate marketing and investment strategies in the event that interest rates change. We have targeted distributors and producers and maintained sales capabilities that align with our focused strategy. We have expanded distribution relationships with new financial institutions, independent financial planners and BGAs and we expect to continue to build these distribution relationships while selectively adding or shifting towards other product offerings, including fixed indexed annuities. Refinements of product offerings and related pricing, including use of reduced commission structures and disciplined investment strategies, support our target of achieving appropriate risk adjusted returns. Sales increased in 2011 reflecting the opportunistic use of reduced commission products. In 2012, we expect moderate growth in sales driven by our new fixed indexed annuity products. International Protection Growth and performance of our lifestyle protection insurance business is dependent in part on economic conditions, including consumer lending and spending levels, unemployment trends, client account penetration and mortality and morbidity trends. Additionally, the types and mix of our products will vary based on regulatory and consumer acceptance of our products. The profitability of our lifestyle protection insurance business improved during 2011 driven by lower new claim registrations resulting in lower claim reserves and claim payments, as well as the impact of our policy re pricing and distribution contract restructuring initiatives. Sales during 2011 decreased primarily as a result of stagnating economies across Europe, which resulted in a decline in consumer lending where most of our insurance coverages attach as banks tightened lending criteria and consumer demand declined. During the second 101 Table of Contents half of 2011, sales declined in Southern Europe, most notably in Italy and Portugal, as our commercial growth initiatives were more than offset by reduced levels of consumer lending. However, these declines were partially offset as a result of signing new clients and increasing production with our large clients during 2011. We are pursuing various targeted initiatives to launch in select new markets such as South America and China, enhance our distribution capabilities and optimize our product offerings, which have begun to help to mitigate lower consumer lending levels. However, depending on the severity and length of these conditions, we could experience additional declines in sales and ability to generate targeted growth in new sales. New claim registrations continued to decline in 2011 and remain at the lowest levels since the third quarter of 2008. This, combined with stabilizing claim durations, has led to a return to pre recession loss ratio levels. The improvement in our loss ratio has been most notable in the Nordic and Western Europe regions. Our loss ratio in the fourth quarter of 2011 has remained consistent with the fourth quarter of 2010 and is at a level that we expect going forward. Consumer lending levels remain challenged particularly given concerns regarding the European debt crisis. Unemployment rates in Europe are expected to trend upwards slightly during 2012 with regional variation, although the impact is expected to be less severe than the previous recession. Additionally, we expect flat to negative European gross domestic product growth. During 2011, continued progress was made in improving profitability through pricing, coverage or distribution contract changes on both new and eligible in force policies. With most of these contract restructuring projects complete, we are focusing on supporting sales strategies through expansion into select new markets, targeted product offerings and enhanced distribution capabilities. We expect these efforts, along with sound risk and cost management disciplines, to maintain or improve profitability and help offset the impact of economic or employment pressures as well as lower levels of consumer lending. Wealth Management Results of our wealth management business are impacted by the demand for asset management products and related support services, investment performance and equity market conditions. Although we experienced negative net asset flows in the fourth quarter of 2011, driven primarily by difficult market conditions and the movement of a legacy block of managed accounts, asset flows for the prior nine sequential quarters as well as net flows for 2011 were positive, driven by the introduction of new investment strategies, the expansion of investment solutions and services we offer to our advisors and an increase in the number of advisors that do business with us. We expect additional outflows from the legacy block of managed accounts in the first quarter of 2012 to impact net flows. Depending upon the direction of equity and fixed income markets in the future, we could see either positive or negative impacts on sales, net flows and assets under management. On December 31, 2010, we purchased the operating assets of Altegris. This acquisition provided a platform of alternative investments including hedge funds and managed futures products and had approximately $2.2 billion in client assets as of December 31, 2010. In January 2012, we reached an agreement to sell our tax and accounting financial advisor unit, GFIS, for approximately $79 million at closing, plus an earnout provision. We expect to recognize a realized gain on the sale, with the closing of the sale expected in the first half of 2012, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. International Mortgage Insurance Results of our international mortgage insurance business are affected by changes in regulatory environments, employment levels, consumer borrowing behavior, lender mortgage related strategies and other 102 Table of Contents economic and housing market influences, including interest rate trends, home price appreciation or depreciation, mortgage origination volume, levels of mortgage delinquencies and movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Canada and Australia comprise approximately 98% of our international mortgage insurance primary risk in force with an estimated average effective loan to value ratio of 57%. We expect that these established markets will continue to be key drivers of revenues and earnings in our international mortgage insurance business. Our participation or entry in other international markets will remain selective and disciplined. In Canada, during 2011, favorable economic conditions persisted with housing affordability benefiting from low interest rates and unemployment levels. Since September 2010, the Bank of Canada has maintained the overnight rate at 1.0% and we expect this rate to be maintained at this level through at least the first half of 2012. The unemployment rate in Canada has gradually decreased during the last two years and is expected to remain near current levels throughout 2012. Additionally, home prices increased modestly during the first half of 2011 and remained stable for the remainder of the year. We expect home prices to remain stable through most of 2012 as a balanced housing market persists. In January 2011, the Canadian government announced new mortgage rules that became effective in March and April of 2011. These changes reduced the amount of flow new insurance written in 2011 primarily due to a smaller market, particularly for high loan to value refinance transactions, which was partially offset by improved market penetration. As a result, flow new insurance written in Canada during 2011 was slightly below 2010 levels. We expect our level of flow new insurance written in 2012 to increase modestly from the 2011 levels. As of December 31, 2011, our 2010 and 2011 books of business represent 22% of our insurance in force while our 2007 and 2008 book years, the two largest in our portfolio, together represent 29% of our insurance in force. As a result of our large 2007 and 2008 book years and subsequent smaller books seasoning during 2011, earned premiums in Canada declined relative to 2010 levels and are expected to decline modestly in 2012. During 2011, losses in Canada increased from levels experienced during 2010 despite improving overall economic conditions and stable housing markets. While the total number of delinquencies decreased during 2011, and we continued to realize benefits from our loss mitigation activities, overall losses increased as a result of higher severity on older books, particularly from Alberta. In Alberta, the economy and housing market have not recovered to pre recession levels, driving increased severity, although conditions did improve during 2011. We expect our overall loss levels in Canada to improve slightly in 2012, although loss levels may vary quarterly based on seasonal or event driven fluctuations. In June 2011, the Canadian government passed legislation, that when effective, will formalize existing mortgage insurance arrangements with private mortgage insurers and terminate the existing Government Guarantee Agreement, including the elimination of the Canadian government guarantee fund. This legislation does not change the current government guarantee of 90% provided on mortgages we insure. While we do not anticipate any significant impacts to our business as a result of this legislation, a full assessment of the impact on our business cannot be completed until the regulations are finalized. In Australia, economic growth slowed during 2011, particularly in Queensland, given the economic impact of the flooding in January 2011, pressures from higher interest rates, higher costs of living, higher exchange rates and cautious consumer spending. As a result, increased levels of new delinquencies were reported by financial institutions in this market, which adversely impacted the results of our operations. The housing market in Australia experienced some modest home price declines in 2011 and we expect home prices to remain near current levels throughout 2012. Unemployment levels increased slightly during 2011 compared to 2010, and we expect a modest increase in 2012. In the fourth quarter of 2011, the Reserve Bank of Australia lowered the cash rate from 4.75% to 4.25%, in two separate decisions, which had remained unchanged since December 2010. There is a market expectation of a further decrease in rates during 2012. 103 Table of Contents Total mortgage market activity in Australia continued to slow during the first half 2011 as consumers became more cautious about higher interest rates and global economic uncertainty together with the economic impact of natural disasters. Additionally, some lenders were slow to return to the high loan to value market. These factors resulted in a smaller high loan to value mortgage originations market. During the second half of 2011, total mortgage market activity began to increase driven by first time home buyers and higher refinance transactions reflecting modestly improving consumer confidence and stable to declining interest rates from rate decreases in the fourth quarter of 2011. As a result, our flow new insurance written decreased marginally overall during 2011 compared to 2010. We expect our level of flow new insurance written in 2012 to be similar to 2011 levels. As of December 31, 2011, our 2010 and 2011 books of business represent 19% of our insurance in force while our 2007, 2008 and 2009 book years, the three largest in our portfolio, together represent 37% of our insurance in force. As a result of our large 2007 to 2009 book years and subsequent smaller books seasoning during 2011, earned premiums in Australia declined marginally relative to 2010 levels and this trend is expected to continue in 2012. Losses in Australia improved throughout most of 2010 as a result of continued loss mitigation activities and the benefits of the improving economic environment. In the first quarter of 2011, losses began to increase driven by higher rates, lower retail spending and higher reserves for claims anticipated from the natural disasters during that quarter, particularly the flooding in Queensland. During the second and third quarters of 2011, there was an increase in the number of outstanding delinquencies and reserves as the cumulative impact of the factors noted previously exerted pressure on elements of the portfolio. During the fourth quarter of 2011, total delinquencies decreased but remained above 2010 levels and the rate of new delinquencies slowed. We expect overall 2012 losses to remain near 2011 levels. We plan to pursue a sale of a minority interest position of our Australian mortgage insurance business through an IPO in Australia during 2012, subject to market conditions and regulatory approval. This move is part of a broader strategy to rebalance the business portfolio, support future growth opportunities for the Australian business with expanded access to capital markets, maintain control positions of strategic mortgage insurance platforms in Australia and Canada, and together with other actions, free material capital for redeployment. In many of our European mortgage insurance markets, we have observed early signs of economic stabilization as unemployment rates appear to be peaking and declines in home prices have moderated. The overall economic environment in Europe, however, continues to be dominated by concerns about the fiscal health of the region, which has created uncertainty about the timing and speed of economic recovery. As a result, we have seen increasing delinquencies and lower cures driven by prolonged economic stress, most notably in Ireland, contributing to increased loss reserves in our European mortgage insurance business, which we expect to continue through 2012. Specifically in Ireland, which represents less than 1% of our international primary risk in force, we experienced increasing delinquencies and reserves in the second half of 2011 driven by prolonged economic and housing market stress and we expect this to continue into 2012. Over the past several years, our global loss mitigation operations have enhanced both their capabilities and resources devoted to finding solutions that cure delinquencies and help to keep borrowers in their homes. These efforts include loan modification programs designed to help borrowers maintain mortgage payments while they are experiencing personal hardships. These programs allow lenders to maintain their relationship with a borrower while retaining an interest earning asset. In addition, we have developed asset management strategies designed to efficiently dispose of properties when a borrowers hardship cannot be cured. Such efforts include actively partnering with the lender and borrower to optimize the transition process and taking early possession of properties to mitigate claim payments. As a result, our loss mitigation activities have had a favorable impact on our financial results as well as our relationships in the marketplace. U.S. Mortgage Insurance Results of our U.S. mortgage insurance business are affected by unemployment, underemployment and other economic and housing market trends, interest rates, home prices, mortgage origination volume mix and 104 Table of Contents practices, the levels and aging of mortgage delinquencies including seasonal variations, the inventory of unsold homes and lender modification efforts. These economic and housing market trends are continuing to be adversely affected by ongoing weakness in the domestic economy and related levels of unemployment and underemployment. This has resulted in several outcomes including rising foreclosures, more borrowers seeking loan modifications and elevated housing inventories which place downward pressure on home values. Overall, we anticipate additional declines in home values into 2012. At the same time, we also expect unemployment and underemployment levels to stabilize at elevated levels and gradually decrease over time though remain elevated for an extended period. Continuing from the prior year and throughout 2011, a weak housing market, tightened lending standards, the lack of consumer confidence and the lack of liquidity in some mortgage securitization markets, along with volatility in mortgage interest rates, converged to drive a smaller mortgage origination market. Within the private mortgage insurance market, the mortgage insurance penetration rate and overall market size was driven down by growth in FHA originations, associated with multiple pricing, underwriting and loan size factors, and the negative impact of GSE market fees and loan level pricing which made private mortgage insurance solutions less competitive with FHA solutions. However, given ongoing FHA risk management actions, we have seen the private mortgage insurance penetration rate increase through the fourth quarter of 2011 and expect this to continue given the additional FHA pricing changes effective in April 2011. This increase has been mitigated in part by increased GSE loan level fees which can make private mortgage insurance less attractive. Going forward, further GSE fee increases could limit the demand for or competitiveness of private mortgage insurance. Considering both of these trends, we believe the industry can expect to regain market share over time. In November 2011, federal legislation was enacted that extended the authority of the FHA to insure loans with initial balances in amounts up to 125% of median area home prices of up to and including $729,750. With this new legislation in place, the FHA now has higher loan limits than do the GSEs in certain metropolitan statistical areas. Accordingly, this could give the FHA a competitive advantage over private mortgage insurance providers. The mortgage insurance industry level of market penetration and eventual market size will continue to be affected by any actions taken by the GSEs, the FHA or the U.S. government impacting housing or housing finance policy, underwriting standards or related reforms. The Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 provided for changes to, among other things, the regulatory authority and oversight of the GSEs and the authority of the FHA including with respect to premium pricing, maximum loan limits and down payment requirements. In addition, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac remain the largest purchasers and guarantors of mortgage loans in the United States. Although the overall insured market size was larger compared to the prior year, our U.S. mortgage insurance market share remained relatively flat in 2011 driven by the shift in private mortgage insurance penetration versus the FHA, changing competitive landscape within the U.S. mortgage insurance industry, including the exit of some competitors from the market and the impact of competitor pricing pressure. While we expect these trends to continue into 2012, we also expect to increase our overall market share in the coming year. Meanwhile, we continue to manage the quality of new business through prudent underwriting guidelines, which we modify from time to time when circumstances warrant. In addition, we regularly monitor competitor pricing and underwriting changes and their potential market impact. While we continue to experience a decrease in the level of new delinquencies, overall pressure on the housing market continues to adversely affect the performance of our portfolio, particularly our 2005, 2006, 2007 and first half of 2008 book years that we believe peaked in their delinquency development during the first quarter of 2010. Albeit at a lower rate, delinquencies for these book years continue to drive the level of new delinquencies being reported. While the impact was originally concentrated in certain states and alternative product types, during the last few years, the impact has shifted to more traditional products reflecting the elevated unemployment and underemployment levels throughout the United States. Beginning mid 2010, we saw an increase in foreclosure starts as well as an increase in our paid claims as late stage delinquency loans go through foreclosure. In addition, we saw wide ranges in performance among loan servicers regarding the ability to modify loans. While these trends continue, both the levels of foreclosure starts and paid claims declined in the current year from elevated levels seen a year ago. Suspensions and delays of foreclosure actions in response to 105 Table of Contents problems associated with lender and servicer foreclosure process changes and defects have caused, and could further cause, claim payments to be deferred to later periods and potentially have an adverse impact on the timing of a recovery of the U.S. residential mortgage market. Expanded efforts in the mortgage lending market to modify loans and improved performance of our second half of 2008 and the 2009 and 2010 book years compared with the performance of prior book years, resulted in continued reductions in delinquency levels during the fourth quarter of 2011. However, loan modification efforts remained challenged and aging of delinquencies continued to increase through the remainder of 2010 and through the fourth quarter of 2011; moreover, both foreclosures and liquidations remained elevated through the same period, thereby resulting in ongoing elevated levels of loss reserves and claims. If employment levels remain pressured, home values experience further decline, credit remains tight or interest rates increase, the ability to cure a delinquent loan could be more difficult to achieve. In addition, while we continue to execute on our loan modification strategy, during 2011, we have seen the level of loan modification actions moderating against the levels we experienced during the fourth quarter of 2010. We saw evidence of low levels of modification activity outside of government programs and servicers distracted by various regulatory and legal actions. Further reduction of loan modifications would have an adverse impact on the ability of borrowers to cure a delinquent loan. Our loss mitigation activities, including those relating to workouts, loan modifications, pre sales, rescissions, claims administration (including curtailment of claim amounts) and targeted settlements, net of reinstatements, which occurred during the year ended December 31, 2011 resulted in a reduction of expected losses of $567 million compared to $734 million during the year ended December 31, 2010. Workouts and loan modifications, which related to loans representing 4% of our primary risk in force as of December 31, 2011, and occurred during the period then ended, resulted in a reduction of expected losses during the year ended December 31, 2011 of $414 million compared to $521 million during the year ended December 31, 2010. Our workout and loan modification programs with various lenders and servicers are designed to help borrowers in default regain current repayment status on their mortgage loans, which ultimately allowed many of these borrowers to remain in their homes. The loans that are subject to workouts and loan modifications that were completed could be subject to potential re default by the underlying borrower at some future date. However, such borrower re defaults currently remain stable at anticipated levels. In addition, pre sales, claims administration and other non cure workouts that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2011 resulted in a reduction of expected losses of $108 million compared to $55 million that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2010. As a result of investigation activities on certain insured delinquent loans, we found some levels of misrepresentation and non compliance with specific terms and conditions of our underlying master insurance policies, as well as fraud. These findings separately resulted in rescission actions that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2011 which reduced our expected losses at the time of rescission by $45 million compared to $158 million that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2010. We expect limited benefit from rescission actions in future periods. Since 2010, benefits from loss mitigation activities have shifted from rescissions to loan modifications and reviews of loan servicing and claims administration compliance where we expect a majority of our loss mitigation benefits to be achieved going forward. While we expect to continue evaluating compliance of the insured or its loan servicer with respect to its servicing obligations under our master policy for loans insured thereunder and may curtail claim amounts payable based on our evaluations of such compliance, we cannot give assurance on the extent or level at which such claim curtailments will continue. Although loan servicers continue to pursue a wide range of approaches to execute appropriate loan modifications, government sponsored programs such as Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) continue to decline as alternative programs have begun to gain momentum. With lower benefits from government sponsored programs and the limited impact from alternative programs to date, we have experienced higher levels of loss reserves and or paid claims. On February 1, 2012, the Obama Administration announced that it would extend HAMP for one year until December 31, 2013, and expand borrower eligibility by loosening certain underwriting requirements. In addition, incentives paid to the owner of a loan that qualifies for principal reduction under HAMP are being increased and, for the 106 Table of Contents first time, will be offered to the GSEs. There can be no assurance that these changes will increase the number of loans that are modified under HAMP, including mortgage loans we insure currently, or that any such modifications will succeed in avoiding foreclosure. Depending upon the mix of loss mitigation activity, market trends, employment levels in future periods and other general economic impacts which influence the U.S. residential housing market, we could see additional adverse loss reserve development going forward. We expect the primary source of new reserves and losses to come from new delinquencies. We also participate in reinsurance programs in which we share portions of our premiums associated with flow insurance written on loans originated or purchased by lenders with captive insurance entities of these lenders in exchange for an agreed upon level of loss coverage above a specified attachment point. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded reinsurance recoveries of $101 million where cumulative losses have exceeded the attachment points in captive reinsurance arrangements, primarily related to our 2004 through 2008 book years. We have exhausted certain captive reinsurance tiers for these book years based on loss development trends. Once the captive reinsurance or trust assets are exhausted, we are responsible for additional losses incurred. We have begun to experience constraints on the recognition of captive benefit recovery due to the amount of funds held in certain captive trusts and the exhaustion of captive loss tiers for certain reinsurers. While we continue to receive cash benefit from these captive arrangements at the time of claim payment, this level of benefit is expected to decline going forward as more captive trusts assets are being exhausted at a faster rate. As of January 1, 2009, we no longer enter into excess loss of captive reinsurance transactions and, therefore, only participate in quota share reinsurance arrangements. The majority of our excess of loss captive reinsurance arrangements are in runoff with no new books of business being added going forward. In August 2011, we executed a non cash intercompany transaction to increase the statutory capital in our U.S. mortgage insurance companies by contributing to those companies a portion of common shares of Genworth Canada that were held by Brookfield, our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, outside of our U.S. mortgage insurance business, with an estimated market value of $375 million. We continue to hold approximately 57.5% of the outstanding common shares of Genworth Canada on a consolidated basis. In addition, Brookfield has the right, exercisable at its discretion, to purchase for cash these common shares of Genworth Canada from our U.S. mortgage insurance companies at the then current market price. Brookfield also has a right of first refusal with respect to the transfer of these common shares of Genworth Canada by the U.S. mortgage insurance companies. GEMICO, our primary U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiary, continues to exceed the maximum risk to capital ratio of 25:1 established under North Carolina law and enforced by the NCDOI, which is GEMICOs domestic insurance regulator. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, GEMICOs risk to capital ratio was approximately 32.9:1 and 23.8:1, respectively. Over at least the next several quarters, we expect GEMICOs risk to capital ratio to continue to increase. The amount of such increases will depend principally on the magnitude of future losses incurred by GEMICO, the effectiveness of ongoing loss mitigation activities and the amount of additional capital that is generated within the business or capital support (if any) that we provide. Our estimate of the amount and timing of future losses is inherently uncertain, requires significant judgment and may change significantly over time. Effective January 31, 2011, the NCDOI granted GEMICO a revocable two year waiver of compliance with its risk to capital requirement. The waiver, which the NCDOI can modify or terminate at any time in its discretion, gives GEMICO the ability to continue to write new business in North Carolina during the period covered by the waiver, notwithstanding that GEMICOs risk to capital ratio exceeds 25:1. Thirty four of the states in which GEMICO operates do not impose their own risk to capital requirements; consequently, GEMICO is permitted to continue to write business in those states so long as it is permitted to write business in North Carolina. Sixteen states (including North Carolina) impose their own risk to capital requirements. Of these 16 states, 12 granted revocable waivers (or the equivalent) of their risk to capital requirements to allow GEMICO to continue to write new business, although two such waivers no longer are in effect as of December 31, 2011 due to the imposition of alternative risk to capital limitations contained in these two waivers as they were granted to GEMICO. Consequently, GEMICO was authorized to write new business in 44 states as of December 31, 2011. 107 Table of Contents New insurance written in North Carolina and in the 34 states which do not impose their own risk to capital requirements represented approximately 49% of our total new insurance written for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. New insurance written in the other nine states that have granted revocable waivers (or the equivalent) of their risk to capital requirements represented approximately 33% and 29%, respectively, of total new insurance written for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. With respect to the six states where GEMICO is not authorized to write new business, from December 31, 2010 until July 31, 2011 in the case of three of these states (and for a longer period for the fourth state), we wrote new insurance through another of our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries, GRMIC NC. With the approval of applicable state insurance regulators and the GSEs, after July 31, 2011, we began writing new business through GRMAC in three of these states (and after December 15, 2011, in the two additional states with alternative risk to capital waiver limitations) while continuing to use GRMIC NC to write new business in the sixth state. Freddie Macs and Fannie Maes approvals of this arrangement expire on July 31, 2012 and December 31, 2012, respectively. We plan to write new business through GRMAC in any other state that prohibits GEMICO from writing new business, subject to the approval of applicable insurance regulators and the GSEs and GRMAC continuing to satisfy its own regulatory requirements. Depending upon volume, GRMAC currently has approximately a full year of new business capacity. We continue to discuss our ongoing use of these and other alternative arrangements with our state insurance regulators and the GSEs. Historically, we have actively managed the risk to capital ratios of our U.S. mortgage insurance business in various ways, including through reinsurance arrangements with our subsidiaries and by providing additional capital support to our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries (including through the contribution of a portion of our common shares of Genworth Canada). Our existing intercompany reinsurance arrangements are conducted through affiliated insurance subsidiaries, and therefore, remain subject to regulation by state insurance regulators who could decide to limit, or require the termination of, such arrangements. Any decision to provide additional capital to support our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries is subject to a number of considerations, including (i) the extent to which we are on track towards executing certain capital reallocation transactions to support the redeployment of capital for the benefit of our stockholders while maintaining appropriate risk buffers; (ii) our ongoing analyses of risk scenarios and the value and return on providing such capital support or pursuing other alternative arrangements or strategies; (iii) our assessment and understanding of U.S. policy relating to housing finance, the use of private mortgage insurance or the GSEs; and (iv) our assessment of actions by competitors and the current views of the GSEs and state regulators. Depending on the state of the U.S. economy and housing market along with other factors, there is a range of potential additional capital needs that our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries might require, including some that could be substantial. As a result, for a variety of reasons, there is no assurance that we will or will not provide additional capital to support our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries in the future. For further discussion of the importance of risk to capital requirements to our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries, see Item 1A. Risk Factors Our U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiaries are subject to minimum statutory capital requirements and hazardous financial condition standards which, if not met or waived to the extent needed, would result in restrictions or prohibitions on our doing business and may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our primary U.S. mortgage insurance subsidiary continues to exceed its minimum statutory capital requirements, and while we have obtained waivers for that insurer to continue to write new business in most states and are using other insurance company subsidiaries to write new business in other states, there can be no assurance that these waivers will continue in effect or that our other insurers will be able to continue to satisfy their own minimum statutory capital requirements over time. In response to the recent years adverse operating results, we engaged in a strategic review of our U.S. mortgage insurance business. While our U.S. mortgage insurance business continues to write new business with expected profitable returns on an ongoing basis, we evaluated (i) the maintenance of ongoing operations and potential changes to the business as the private mortgage insurance and broader housing finance markets evolve; 108 Table of Contents (ii) the prospects involved in ceasing to write new business but continuing to service the existing policies in force (commonly referred to as runoff); and (iii) the merits and potential of entering into a strategic transaction involving the spinoff, merger or sale of our U.S. mortgage insurance operations. Key considerations taken into account by us in identifying and assessing alternatives included the efficiency of capital required in the short and medium term under each of these options; underlying embedded value within our U.S. mortgage insurance business; maximization of capital deployment flexibility; maintenance of adequate liquidity and financial flexibility; protection of the value, reputation, ratings and regulatory relationships of our U.S. mortgage insurance business and Genworth as a whole; and maximization of medium to long term shareholder value. Each alternative we considered included challenges and opportunities from a financial, operational, reputational and regulatory perspective. We will continue to monitor these considerations and alternatives on a go forward basis and our expectation currently is to continue operating our U.S. mortgage insurance business with the benefit of regulatory waivers and the use of alternative subsidiaries to generate new insurance written. Runoff Results of our Runoff segment are affected by investment performance, interest rate levels, net interest spreads, equity market conditions, mortality and policyholder surrenders and scheduled maturities. In addition, the results of our Runoff segment can significantly impact our results, regulatory capital requirements, distributable earnings and liquidity. In January 2011, we discontinued sales of our individual and group variable annuities; however, we continue to service our existing block of business and accept additional deposits on existing contracts. During 2011, a low interest rate environment and continued volatility in equity market performance unfavorably impacted the results of our variable annuity products and regulatory capital requirements. In the future, equity market performance and volatility could result in additional gains or losses in our variable annuity products although associated hedging activities are expected to mitigate most of these impacts. Volatility in the results of our variable annuity products can result in favorable or unfavorable impacts on capital and earnings. In addition to the use of hedging activities to mitigate impacts related to equity market volatility and interest rate risks, we may pursue reinsurance opportunities to further mitigate volatility in results. The results of our institutional products are impacted by scheduled maturities, as well as liquidity levels. However, we believe our liquidity planning and our asset liability management will largely mitigate this risk. Effective October 1, 2011, we completed the sale of our Medicare supplement insurance business for $276 million. We recognized an after tax gain on the sale of $20 million in the fourth quarter of 2011. The transaction included the sale of Continental Life Insurance Company of Brentwood, Tennessee and its subsidiary, American Continental Insurance Company, and the reinsurance of the Medicare supplement insurance in force business written by other Genworth life insurance subsidiaries. See note 8 in our consolidated financial statements under 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion of recent market conditions. 201 Table of Contents In 2011, the currencies in Canada and Europe weakened against the U.S. dollar as compared to the prior year, while in Australia, the currency remained relatively flat with prior year. This has generally resulted in lower levels of reported revenues and net income (loss), assets, liabilities and accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in our U.S. dollar consolidated financial statements. See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for further discussion on the impact changes in foreign currency exchange rates have had during the year. While we enter into derivatives to mitigate certain market risks, our agreements with derivative counterparties typically require that we provide collateral when our net derivative liability position with a particular counterparty reaches a certain level. As a result, we may be required to post collateral due to fluctuations in the fair value of our derivatives and may result in us holding more high quality securities to ensure we have sufficient collateral to post derivative counterparties in the event of adverse changes in fair value of our derivative instruments. In the event we do not have sufficient high quality securities to provide as collateral, we may need to sell certain other securities to purchase assets that would be eligible for collateral posting, which could adversely impact our future investment income. Interest Rate Risk We enter into market sensitive instruments primarily for purposes other than trading. Our life insurance, long term care insurance and deferred annuity products have significant interest rate risk and are predominantly associated with our U.S. life insurance subsidiaries. Our international mortgage insurance business and immediate annuity products have moderate interest rate risk, while our wealth management, lifestyle protection insurance and U.S. mortgage insurance businesses have relatively low interest rate risk. Our insurance and investment products are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations and expose us to the risk that falling interest rates or credit spreads will reduce our margin or the difference between the returns we earn on the investments that support our obligations under these products and the amounts that we must pay to policyholders and contractholders. Because we may reduce the interest rates we credit on most of these products only at limited, pre established intervals, and because some contracts have guaranteed minimum interest crediting rates, declines in interest rates can impact the profitability of these products. During periods of increasing market interest rates, we may offer higher crediting rates on interest sensitive products, such as universal life insurance and fixed annuities, and we may increase crediting rates on in force products to keep these products competitive. In addition, rapidly rising interest rates may cause increased policy surrenders, withdrawals from life insurance policies and annuity contracts and requests for policy loans, as policyholders and contractholders shift assets into higher yielding investments. Increases in crediting rates, as well as surrenders and withdrawals, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, including the requirement to liquidate fixed income investments in an unrealized loss position to satisfy surrenders or withdrawals. Our life and long term care insurance products as well as our guaranteed benefits on variable annuities also expose us to the risk of interest rate fluctuations. The pricing and expected future profitability of these products are based in part on expected investment returns. Over time, life and long term care insurance products generally produce positive cash flows as customers pay periodic premiums, which we invest as they are received. Low interest rates increase reinvestment risk and reduce our ability to achieve our targeted investment margins and may adversely affect the profitability of our life and long term care insurance products and may increase hedging costs on our in force block of variable annuity products. A prolonged low interest rate environment may negatively impact the sufficiency of our margins on our DAC and PVFP, which could result in an impairment of these assets. In addition, certain statutory capital requirements are based on models that consider interest rates. Prolonged periods of low interest rates may increase the statutory capital we are required to hold as well as the amount of assets we must maintain to support statutory reserves. 202 Table of Contents The significant interest rate risk that is present in our life insurance, long term care insurance and deferred annuity products is a result of longer duration liabilities where a significant portion of cash flows to pay benefits comes from investment returns. Additionally, certain of these products have implicit and explicit rate guarantees or optionality that is significantly impacted by changes in interest rates. We seek to minimize interest rate risk by purchasing assets to better align the duration of our assets with the duration of the liability or utilizing derivatives to mitigate interest rate risk for product lines where asset durations are not sufficient to align with the related liability. Additionally, we also minimize certain of these risks through product design features. The carrying value of our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $71.9 billion and $68.4 billion, respectively, of which 81% in each year was invested in fixed maturity securities. The primary market risk to our investment portfolio is interest rate risk associated with investments in fixed maturity securities. We mitigate the market risk associated with our fixed maturity securities portfolio by closely matching the duration of our fixed maturity securities with the duration of the liabilities that those securities are intended to support. Interest rate fluctuations also could have an adverse effect on the results of our investment portfolio. During periods of declining market interest rates, the interest we receive on variable interest rate investments decreases. In addition, during those periods, we are forced to reinvest the cash we receive as interest or return of principal on our investments in lower yielding high grade instruments or in lower credit instruments to maintain comparable returns. Issuers of fixed income securities may also decide to prepay their obligations in order to borrow at lower market rates, which exacerbates the risk that we may have to invest the cash proceeds of these securities in lower yielding or lower credit instruments. During periods of increasing interest rates, market values of lower yielding assets will decline. In addition, our interest rate hedges will decline which will require us to post additional collateral with our derivative counterparties. The primary market risk for our long term borrowings is interest rate risk at the time of maturity or early redemption, when we may be required to refinance these obligations. We continue to monitor the interest rate environment and to evaluate refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. While we are exposed to interest rate risk from certain variable rate long term borrowings and non recourse funding obligations, in certain instances we invest in variable rate assets to back those obligations to mitigate the interest rate risk from the variable interest payments. We use derivative instruments, such as interest rate swaps, financial futures and option based financial instruments, as part of our risk management strategy. We use these derivatives to mitigate certain interest rate risk by: reducing the risk between the timing of the receipt of cash and its investment in the market; extending or shortening the asset duration to better align with the duration of the liabilities; and protecting against the early termination of an asset or liability. As a matter of policy, we have not and will not engage in derivative market making, speculative derivative trading or other speculative derivatives activities. Equity Market Risk Our exposure to equity market risk within our insurance companies primarily relates to variable annuities and certain equity linked products. Certain variable annuity products have living benefit guarantees that expose us to equity market risk if the performance of the underlying mutual funds in the separate account products experience downturns and volatility for an extended period of time potentially resulting in more payments from general account assets than from contractholder separate account investments. Additionally, continued equity market volatility could result in additional losses in our variable annuity products and associated hedging program which will further challenge our ability to recover DAC on these products and could lead to additional write offs of DAC, as well as increased hedging costs. 203 Table of Contents Our revenues and returns from our mutual fund wrapped and separately managed account products and services could also be impacted by downturns and volatility in equity markets. Because these products and services generate fees generally from the value of assets under management, a decline in the equity markets could reduce our revenues by reducing the value of the investment assets we manage. Downturns in equity markets could also lead to an increase in liabilities associated with secondary guarantee features, such as guaranteed minimum benefits on separate account products, where we have equity market risk exposure. We are exposed to equity risk on our holdings of common stocks and other equities, as well as risk on products where we have equity market risk exposure. We manage equity price risk through industry and issuer diversification, asset allocation techniques and hedging strategies. We use derivative instruments, such as financial futures and option based financial instruments, as part of our risk management strategy. We use these derivatives to mitigate equity risk by reducing our exposure to fluctuations in equity market indices that underlie some of our products. Foreign Currency Risk We also have exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. Our international operations generate revenues denominated in local currencies, and we invest cash generated outside the United States in non U.S. denominated securities. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, approximately 25% and 22%, respectively, of our invested assets were held by our international operations and were invested primarily in non U.S. denominated securities. Although investing in securities denominated in local currencies limits the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuation on local operating results, we remain exposed to the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates as we translate the operating results of our foreign operations into our consolidated financial statements. We currently do not hedge this exposure. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, 139%, 152% and 160%, respectively, of our income, excluding net investment gains (losses), was generated by our international operations. Our investments in non U.S. denominated securities are subject to fluctuations in non U.S. securities and currency markets, and those markets can be volatile. Non U.S. currency fluctuations also affect the value of any dividends paid by our non U.S. subsidiaries to their parent companies in the United States. We use derivative instruments, such as foreign currency swaps, financial futures and option based financial instruments, as part of our risk management strategy. We use these derivatives to mitigate certain foreign currency risks by: matching the currency of invested assets with the liabilities they support; converting certain non functional currency investments into functional currency; and hedging certain near term foreign currency dividends or cash flows expected from international subsidiaries. Sensitivity Analysis Sensitivity analysis measures the impact of hypothetical changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and other market rates or prices on the profitability of market sensitive financial instruments. The following discussion about the potential effects of changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market prices is based on so called shock tests, which model the effects of interest rate, foreign currency exchange rate and equity market price shifts on our financial condition and results of operations. Although we believe shock tests provide the most meaningful analysis permitted by the rules and regulations of the SEC, they are constrained by several factors, including the necessity to conduct the analysis based on a single point in time and by their inability to include the extraordinarily complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled. Although the following results of shock tests for changes in interest rates, 204 Table of Contents foreign currency exchange rates and equity market prices may have some limited use as benchmarks, they should not be viewed as forecasts. These forward looking disclosures also are selective in nature and address only the potential impacts on our financial instruments. For the purpose of this sensitivity analysis, we excluded the potential impacts on our insurance liabilities that are not considered financial instruments, with the exception of those insurance liabilities that have embedded derivatives that are required to be bifurcated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. They do not include a variety of other potential factors that could affect our business as a result of these changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and equity market prices. Interest Rate Risk One means of assessing exposure to interest rate changes is a duration based analysis that measures the potential changes in fair value resulting from a hypothetical change in interest rates of 100 basis points across all maturities. This is sometimes referred to as a parallel shift in the yield curve. Note that all impacts noted below exclude any effects of deferred taxes, DAC and PVFP unless otherwise noted. Under this model, with all other factors constant and assuming no offsetting change in the value of our liabilities, we estimated that such an increase in interest rates would cause the fair value of our fixed income securities portfolio to decrease by approximately $3.7 billion based on our securities positions as of December 31, 2011, as compared to an estimated decrease of $3.2 billion under this model as of December 31, 2010. The increase in the impact of the parallel shift in the yield curve in 2011 was due to the increase in duration of fixed maturity securities to better align with the liabilities being backed by these investments. Additionally, the results of this parallel shift in the yield curve would cause the fair value of our commercial mortgage loans to decrease by approximately $256 million based on our commercial mortgage loans as of December 31, 2011, which is consistent with the prior year. We performed a similar sensitivity analysis on our derivatives portfolio and noted that a 100 basis point increase in interest rates resulted in a decrease in fair value of $921 million based on our derivatives portfolio as of December 31, 2011, as compared to an estimated decline of $758 million under this model as of December 31, 2010. The estimated decrease in fair value of our derivatives portfolio would also require us to post collateral to certain derivative counterparties of approximately $248 million and would require us to post cash margin related to our futures contracts of $131 million based on our derivatives portfolio as of December 31, 2011. Of the $921 million estimated decrease in fair value on our derivatives portfolio as of December 31, 2011, $128 million related to non qualified derivatives used to mitigate interest rate risk associated with our GMWB embedded derivative liabilities as of December 31, 2011. We also performed a similar sensitivity analysis on our embedded derivatives associated with our GMWB liabilities and noted that a 100 basis point increase in interest rates resulted in a decrease of $137 million based on our GMWB embedded derivative liabilities as of December 31, 2011, as compared to an estimated decline of $86 million under this model as of December 31, 2010. The impact on our insurance liabilities, as they are not considered financial instruments, is not included in the sensitivities above. 205 Table of Contents The principal amount, weighted average interest rate and fair value by maturity, of our variable rate debt were as follows as of December 31, 2011: (Amounts in millions) Principalamount Weighted averageinterest rate Fairvalue (2) Maturity (1): Non recourse funding obligations: River Lake Insurance Company IV, 2028 $ 508 0.58 % $ 337 River Lake Insurance Company, 2033 1,070 1.48 % 706 River Lake Insurance Company II, 2035 712 1.04 % 470 River Lake Insurance Company III, 2036 651 1.66 % 470 Rivermont Insurance Company I, 2050 315 2.29 % 177 Total non recourse funding obligations 3,256 1.41 % 2,160 Floating rate junior notes, 2021 (3) 143 9.23 % 139 Total floating rate debt $ 3,399 $ 2,299 (1) There are no maturities over the next five years. (2) The valuation methodology used is based on the then current coupon, revalued based on the LIBOR rate set and current spread assumption based on commercially available data. The model is a floating rate coupon model using the spread assumption to derive the valuation. (3) Subordinated floating rate notes issued in June 2011 by our indirect wholly owned subsidiary, Genworth Financial Mortgage Insurance Pty Limited, with an interest rate of three month Bank Bill Swap reference rate plus a margin of 4.75%. The weighted average interest rate on our non recourse funding obligations as of December 31, 2010 was 1.44% based on $3,437 million of non recourse funding obligations as of December 31, 2010. Foreign Currency Risk One means of assessing exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates is to model effects on reported income using a sensitivity analysis. We analyzed our combined currency exposure for the year ended December 31, 2011, including the results of our international operations financial instruments designated and effective as hedges to identify assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than their relevant functional currencies. Net unhedged exposures in each currency were then remeasured, generally assuming a 10% decrease in foreign currency exchange rates compared to the U.S. dollar. Under this model, with all other factors constant, we estimated that such a decrease would decrease our pre tax results by approximately $65 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to an estimated decrease of $71 million under this model for the year ended December 31, 2010. We also performed a similar sensitivity analysis on our foreign currency derivative portfolio and noted that a 10% decrease in currency exchange rates resulted in a decrease in fair value of $31 million as of December 31, 2011, as compared to an estimated decrease of $79 million under this model for the year ended December 31, 2010. The change in fair value of derivatives may not result in a direct impact to our income as a result of certain derivatives that may be designated as qualifying hedge relationships. Equity Market Risk One means of assessing exposure to changes in equity market prices is to estimate the potential changes in market values on our equity investments resulting from a hypothetical broad based decline in equity market prices of 10%. Under this model, with all other factors constant, we estimated that such a decline in equity market prices would cause the market value of our equity investments to decline by approximately $31 million 206 Table of Contents based on our equity positions as of December 31, 2011, as compared to an estimated decline of $22 million under this model for the year ended December 31, 2010. We performed a similar sensitivity analysis on our equity market derivatives and noted that a 10% decline in equity market prices would result in an increase in fair value of $95 million based on our equity market derivatives as of December 31, 2011, as compared to an estimated increase of $79 million under this model as of December 31, 2011. The estimated increase in fair value primarily relates to non qualified derivatives used to mitigate interest rate risk associated with our GMWB embedded derivative liabilities. We also performed a similar sensitivity analysis on our embedded derivatives associated with our GMWB liabilities and noted that a 10% decline in equity market prices would result in an increase in fair value of $90 million based on our GMWB embedded derivative liabilities as of December 31, 2011, as compared to an estimated increase of $67 million under this model as of December 31, 2010. Derivative Counterparty Credit Risk For all derivative instruments except for derivatives associated with our consolidated securitization entities, a counterparty (or its guarantor, as applicable) may not have a long term unsecured debt rating below A /A3 as rated by S&P and Moodys, respectively, at the date of execution of the derivative instrument. The same requirement applies where a Credit Support Annex (CSA) to an International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) Master Agreement has been obtained such that the counterparty is obligated to provide collateral. In the case of a split or single rating, the lowest or the single rating will apply. In the case of foreign exchange transactions with a tenor of exposure of less than one year, a counterparty must have short term credit rating of A 1/P 1 or its equivalent. In the case of a split or single rating, the lowest or the single rating will apply. All counterparty exposure is measured on a net mark to market basis where the valuation of a derivative is adjusted to reflect current market values. This is achieved by estimating the net present value of derivatives positions contracted and outstanding with each counterparty and calculating the gross loss (excluding recoveries) that would be sustained in the event of a counterparty bankruptcy (taking into account netting and pledged collateral under the applicable ISDA Master Agreement and CSA). Investment exposure limits to counterparties shall take into account all exposures (through derivatives, bond investments, repurchase transactions or otherwise). We may also engage in derivatives transactions traded on regulated exchanges or clearinghouses where the exchanges or clearinghouse ensure the performance of the contracts. 207 Table of Contents 
 
