Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This section includes a discussion of our operations for the three years ended December 31, 2005. This discussion may contain forward looking statements that anticipate results based on managements plans that are subject to uncertainty. We discuss in more detail various factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations in Item 1A, Risk Factors. The following discussion should be read in light of that disclosure and together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Overview Waste Management is the leading provider of comprehensive waste services in North America. Throughout 2005, we continued to build a leading and trusted brand that stands for quality, reliable service, safety and environmental protection. By continuing to cultivate this reputation and focusing on quality customer service, we accomplished our main financial objectives for 2005 of strong earnings growth, margin expansion and improved cash flow. We believe that our pricing initiatives, which allowed us to grow our revenues by increasing our prices while maintaining solid volumes, were largely responsible for our improved financial performance. Significant financial achievements during the year ended December 31, 2005 include: Net cash provided by operating activities increased to $2.4 billion and free cash flow increased to $1.4 billion, increases of 8% and 33%, respectively, when compared with 2004; Internal revenue growth of 4.7% for the fourth quarter of 2005 and 3.7% for the full year, driven by increases in base business yield, which is the highest it has been in five years; Improvements in our costs as a percentage of revenues, particularly in the second half of the year, despite margin pressure created by continued increases in the cost of fuel; and $706 million in stock repurchases and $449 million of dividends paid pursuant to our capital allocation plan. Cash Flow Free cash flow is a non GAAP measure of financial performance that we include in our disclosures because we believe the production of free cash flow is an important measure of our liquidity and performance and because we believe our investors are interested in the cash we produce from non financing activities that is available for our acquisition program, share repurchase program, scheduled debt reduction and the payment of dividends. The most comparable GAAP financial measure to free cash flow is net cash provided by operating activities. We calculate free cash flow as shown in the table below (in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,391 $ 2,218 Capital expenditures (1,180 ) (1,258 ) Proceeds from divestitures of businesses, net of cash divested, and other sales of assets 194 96 Free cash flow $ 1,405 $ 1,056 The growth in our 2005 operating and free cash flow reflects the current year improvements in our operating results, particularly those contributed by our increase in revenue from price, which is discussed below. Internal Revenue Growth Internal revenue growth, or IRG, is the change in our revenues from: base business yield; commodities; electricity; fuel surcharges and fees; and volumes. IRG is an important indicator of our performance as it is a measure of our ability to increase revenues from our existing operations. Our IRG for the year was 3.7% and consisted primarily of improvement in base business yield and an increase in revenues related to our fuel surcharge program. Revenue growth from yield on base business is the combined effects on our revenues from the pricing activities of our collection, transfer, disposal and waste to energy 23 Table of Contents operations, exclusive of volume changes. Our revenue growth from base business yield includes not only price increases, but also includes (i) price decreases to retain customers; (ii) changes in average price from new and lost business; and (iii) certain average price changes related to the overall mix of services, which are due to both the types of services provided and the geographic locations where our services are provided. Our revenue growth from base business yield for 2005 was 2.7%, which is an increase of 2 percentage points from the prior year. In addition, our fuel surcharge program contributed $157 million, or 1.3%, to revenue growth in 2005 compared with $53 million, or 0.5% in 2004. The revenues generated by the program in 2005 substantially recovered the increase in our operating costs attributable to fuel. Margin Improvement We use our net income as a percentage of revenues and income from operations as a percentage of revenues to gauge performance for employee incentive awards and to determine the overall efficiency and effectiveness of our operations and strategies. Our income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles as a percentage of revenues increased in 2005 to 9.0% from 7.4% in 2004. This increase is largely due to a tax benefit resulting from tax audit settlements. Our income from operations as a percentage of revenues decreased to 13.1% in 2005 from 13.6% in 2004 on an increase of $558 million in revenue. The decrease was caused primarily by $110 million of additional expenses in 2005 when compared with 2004 related to asset impairments and unusual items and restructuring. Excluding asset impairments and unusual items and restructuring charges for both periods, our income from operations as a percentage of revenues improved by 0.3 percentage points. This improvement in our income from operations as a percentage of revenues is primarily a result of our increased revenue on essentially flat volumes. We experienced a $403 million increase in our operating expenses from the prior year, but as a percentage of revenue, the measure increased by only 0.3 percentage points, to 66%, as compared with 2004. During the second half of 2005, our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue improved by 0.4 percentage points when compared with the comparable prior year period. With the increased prices of fuel and other higher variable operating costs, we believe that these are positive results brought about primarily by our focus on implementing programs to recover our own higher costs. Our selling, general and administrative expenses in 2005 increased by $9 million, but as a percentage of revenue actually decreased by 0.3 percentage points to 9.8%. We achieved our goal of reducing selling, general and administrative costs as a percentage of revenue to below 10% as a result of both our revenue growth and our restructuring to streamline our business. As a result of higher revenues on relatively flat volumes, our depreciation and amortization expense as a percentage of revenue decreased by 0.3 percentage points as compared with the prior period. Although there remains work to be done, we believe our 2005 operating margins demonstrate our pricing progress as well as our continued efforts to improve the efficiency of our operations. Outlook for 2006 As part of our continuing efforts to improve our operations, we have developed a program to divest under performing and non strategic operations. In the third quarter of 2005, we identified operations with annual gross revenues of over $400 million for potential divestiture under this program. We recently announced that we have identified additional assets, representing over $500 million in annual gross revenues, that may also be sold as part of the divestiture program. While it is too early to assess the financial impact of the divestitures, and whether there may be any material asset impairments as a result of the program, we remain confident that our fix or seek an exit strategy approach to any under performing operations will benefit our financial results in the long term. Additionally, we are continuing our focus on acquisitions and other investments. We intend to make investments in those locations and lines of businesses that offer superior margins and return on capital. Our Company is proud of the accomplishments made in 2005. We are focused on building on the momentum that we experienced this year to continue to expand our operating margins, increase our return on invested capital and generate strong cash flows. 24 Table of Contents Basis of Presentation of Consolidated and Segment Financial Information As discussed in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the following reclassifications have been made in the accompanying financial statements to conform prior year financial information with the current period presentation. Cash balances During 2004, we began making investments in auction rate securities and variable rate demand notes, which are debt instruments with long term scheduled maturities and periodic interest rate reset dates. Through December 31, 2004, we included these investments in Cash and cash equivalents. As a result of guidance issued in early 2005 associated with these types of securities, we determined that these investments were more appropriately classified as short term investments, which are a component of current Other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Accordingly, in our accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements we have decreased our Cash and cash equivalents and increased our current Other assets by $19 million at December 31, 2004. Gross purchases and sales of these investments are presented within Cash flows from investing activities in our Statements of Cash Flows. Additionally, in our 2004 and 2003 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, relatively insignificant purchases and sales of other short term investments were included on a net basis within Cash flows from investing activities Other. This additional activity is now reflected within purchases and sales of short term investments in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Segments As discussed in Notes 2 and 20 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, in the third quarter of 2005, we eliminated our Canadian Group office, and the management of our Canadian operations was allocated among our Eastern, Midwest and Western Groups. We have allocated the operating results of our Canadian operations to the Eastern, Midwest and Western Groups for 2003, 2004 and the first half of 2005 to provide financial information that consistently reflects our current approach to managing our operations. This reorganization also resulted in the centralization of certain Group office functions. The administrative costs associated with these functions were included in the measurement of income from operations for our reportable segments through August 2005, when the integration of these functions with our existing centralized processes was completed. Beginning in September 2005, these administrative costs have been included in the income from operations of our Corporate organization. The reallocation of these costs has not significantly affected the operating results of our reportable segments for the periods presented. Certain other reclassifications have also been made in the accompanying financial statements to conform prior year information with the current period presentation. The supplementary financial information included in this section has been updated to reflect these changes. Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions In preparing our financial statements, we make several estimates and assumptions that affect our assets, liabilities, stockholders equity, revenues and expenses. We must make these estimates and assumptions because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from available data or is simply not capable of being readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. In some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. The most difficult, subjective and complex estimates and the assumptions that deal with the greatest amount of uncertainty relate to our accounting for landfills, environmental remediation liabilities, asset impairments and self insurance reserves and recoveries, as described below. Landfills The cost estimates for final capping, closure and post closure activities at landfills for which we have responsibility are estimated based on our interpretations of current requirements and proposed or anticipated regulatory changes. We also estimate additional costs, pursuant to the requirements of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (SFAS No. 143), based on the amount a third party would charge us to perform such activities even when we expect to perform these activities internally. We estimate the airspace to be consumed related to each final capping event and the timing of each final capping event and of closure and post closure activities. Because 25 Table of Contents landfill final capping, closure and post closure obligations are measured at estimated fair value using present value techniques, changes in the estimated timing of future landfill final capping and closure and post closure activities would have an effect on these liabilities, related assets and results of operations. Landfill Costs We estimate the total cost to develop each of our landfill sites to its final capacity. This estimate includes such costs as landfill liner material and installation, excavation for airspace, landfill leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems, environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, and on site road construction and other capital infrastructure costs. Additionally, landfill development includes all land purchases for landfill footprint and required landfill buffer property. The projection of these landfill costs is dependent, in part, on future events. The remaining amortizable basis related to costs to develop a site to its final capacity includes amounts previously expended and capitalized, net of accumulated airspace amortization, and projections of future purchase and development costs. Final Capping Costs We estimate the cost for each final capping event based on the area to be finally capped and the capping materials and activities required. The estimates also consider when these costs would actually be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. Our engineering personnel allocate final landfill capping costs to specific capping events. They then quantify the landfill capacity associated with each final capping event and the final capping costs for each event are amortized over the related capacity associated with the event as waste is disposed of at the landfill. We review these costs annually, or more often if significant facts change. Changes in estimates, such as timing or cost of construction, for final capping events where the associated capacity is fully consumed immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. However, as the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through expense. Closure and Post Closure Costs We base our estimates for closure and post closure costs on our interpretations of permit and regulatory requirements for closure and post closure maintenance and monitoring. The estimates for landfill closure and post closure costs also consider when the costs would actually be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. The possibility of changing legal and regulatory requirements and the forward looking nature of these types of costs make any estimation or assumption less certain. Available Airspace Our engineers, in consultation with third party engineering consultants and surveyors, are responsible for determining available airspace at our landfills. The available airspace is determined by an annual survey, which is then used to compare the existing landfill topography to the final landfill topography. Once the remaining airspace is determined, an airspace utilization factor (AUF) is established to calculate the remaining capacity in tons. The AUF is established using the measured density obtained from previous annual surveys and then adjusted to account for settlement. The amount of settlement that is forecasted will take into account several site specific factors including current and projected mix of waste type, initial and projected waste density, estimated number of years of life remaining, depth of underlying waste, and anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation of landfill leachate. In addition, the initial selection of the AUF is subject to a subsequent multi level review by our engineering group. Our historical experience generally indicates that the impact of settlement at a landfill is greater later in the life of the landfill when the waste placed at the landfill approaches its highest point under the permit requirements. Expansion Airspace We include currently unpermitted airspace in our estimate of available airspace in certain circumstances. First, to include airspace associated with an expansion effort, we must generally expect the initial expansion permit application to be submitted within one year, and the final expansion permit to be received within five years. Second, we must believe the success of obtaining the expansion permit is likely, considering the following criteria: Personnel are actively working to obtain land use and local, state or provincial approvals for an expansion of an existing landfill; It is likely that the approvals will be received within the normal application and processing time periods for approvals in the jurisdiction in which the landfill is located; 26 Table of Contents Either we or the respective landfill owners have a legal right to use or obtain land to be included in the expansion plan; There are no significant known technical, legal, community, business, or political restrictions or similar issues that could impair the success of such expansion; Financial analysis has been completed, and the results demonstrate that the expansion has a positive financial and operational impact; and Airspace and related costs, including additional closure and post closure costs, have been estimated based on conceptual design. These criteria are initially evaluated by our field based engineers, accountants, managers and others to identify potential obstacles to obtaining the permits. However, our policy provides that, based on the facts and circumstances of a specific landfill, if these criteria are not met, inclusion of unpermitted airspace may still be allowed. In these circumstances, inclusion must be approved through a landfill specific review process that includes approval of the Chief Financial Officer and a review by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Of the 65 landfill sites with expansions at December 31, 2005, 16 landfills required the Chief Financial Officer to approve the inclusion of the unpermitted airspace. Thirteen of these landfills required approval by the Chief Financial Officer because legal, community or other issues could impede the expansion process. The remaining three landfills required approval primarily because the permit application processes would not meet the one or five year requirements, generally due to state specific permitting procedures. When we include the expansion airspace in our calculations of available airspace, we also include the projected costs for development, as well as the projected asset retirement cost related to final capping, and closure and post closure of the expansion in the amortization basis of the landfill. After determining the costs at our landfills, we determine the per ton rates that will be expensed through landfill amortization. We look at factors such as the waste stream, geography and rate of compaction, among others, to determine the number of tons necessary to fill the available, permitted and likely expansion airspace relating to these costs and activities. We then divide costs by the corresponding number of tons, giving us the rate per ton to expense for each activity as waste is received and deposited at the landfill. We calculate per ton amortization rates for each landfill for assets associated with each final capping event, for assets related to closure and post closure activities and for all other costs capitalized or to be capitalized in the future. These rates per ton are updated annually, or more often, as significant facts change. It is possible that actual results, including the amount of costs incurred, the timing of final capping, closure and post closure activities, our airspace utilization or the success of our expansion efforts, could ultimately turn out to be significantly different from our estimates and assumptions. To the extent that such estimates, or related assumptions, prove to be significantly different than actual results, lower profitability may be experienced due to higher amortization rates, higher final capping, closure or post closure rates, or higher expenses; or higher profitability may result if the opposite occurs. Most significantly, if our belief that we will receive an expansion permit changes adversely and it is determined that the expansion capacity should no longer be considered in calculating the recoverability of the landfill asset, we may be required to recognize an asset impairment. If it is determined that the likelihood of receiving an expansion permit has become remote, the capitalized costs related to the expansion effort are expensed immediately. Environmental Remediation Liabilities Under current laws and regulations, we may have liability for environmental damage caused by our operations, or for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired a site. Remedial costs are all costs relating to the remedy of any identified situation that occurs by natural causes or human error not expected in the normal course of business. These costs include potentially responsible party (PRP) investigation, settlement, certain legal and consultant fees, as well as costs directly associated with site investigation and clean up, such as materials and incremental internal costs directly related to the remedy. We estimate costs required to remediate sites where liability is probable based on site specific facts and circumstances. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation, considering whether we were an owner, operator, transporter, or generator at the site, the amount and type of waste hauled to the site and the number of years we were connected with the site. Next, we review the same information 27 Table of Contents with respect to other named and unnamed PRPs. Estimates of the cost for the likely remedy are then either developed using our internal resources or by third party environmental engineers or other service providers. Internally developed estimates are based on: Managements judgment and experience in remediating our own and unrelated parties sites; Information available from regulatory agencies as to costs of remediation; The number, financial resources and relative degree of responsibility of other PRPs who may be liable for remediation of a specific site; and The typical allocation of costs among PRPs. Asset Impairments Our long lived assets, including landfills and landfill expansions, are carried on our financial statements based on their cost less accumulated depreciation or amortization. However, accounting standards require us to write down assets or groups of assets if they become impaired. If significant events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable, we perform a test of recoverability by comparing the carrying value of the asset or asset group to its undiscounted expected future cash flows. If cash flows cannot be separately and independently identified for a single asset, we will determine whether an impairment has occurred for the group of assets for which we can identify the projected cash flows. If the carrying values are in excess of undiscounted expected future cash flows, we measure any impairment by comparing the fair value of the asset or asset group to its carrying value. Fair value is determined by either an internally developed discounted projected cash flow analysis of the asset or asset group or an actual third party valuation. If the fair value of an asset or asset group is determined to be less than the carrying amount of the asset or asset group, an impairment in the amount of the difference is recorded in the period that the impairment indicator occurs. Typical indicators that an asset may be impaired include: A significant decrease in the market price of an asset or asset group; A significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset or asset group is being used or in its physical condition; A significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of an asset or asset group, including an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; An accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the acquisition or construction of a long lived asset; Current period operating or cash flow losses combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with the use of a long lived asset or asset group; or A current expectation that, more likely than not, a long lived asset or asset group will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. If any of these or other indicators occur, we review the asset to determine whether there has been an impairment. Several of these indicators are beyond our control, and we cannot predict with any certainty whether or not they will occur. Additionally, estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment and our projections may vary from cash flows eventually realized. There are additional considerations for impairments of landfills and goodwill, as described below. Landfills Certain of the indicators listed above require significant judgment and understanding of the waste industry when applied to landfill development or expansion projects. For example, a regulator may initially deny a landfill expansion permit application though the expansion permit is ultimately granted. In addition, management may periodically divert waste from one landfill to another to conserve remaining permitted landfill airspace. Therefore, certain events could occur in the ordinary course of our business and not necessarily be considered indicators of impairment due to the unique nature of the waste industry. 28 Table of Contents Goodwill At least annually, we assess whether goodwill is impaired. Upon determining the existence of goodwill impairment, we measure that impairment based on the amount by which the book value of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by deducting the fair value of our reporting units (Groups) identifiable assets and liabilities from the fair value of the reporting unit as a whole, as if that reporting unit had just been acquired and the purchase price were being initially allocated. Additional impairment assessments may be performed on an interim basis if we encounter events or changes in circumstances, such as those listed above, that would indicate that, more likely than not, the book value of goodwill has been impaired. Self insurance reserves and recoveries We have retained a portion of the risks related to our automobile, general liability and workers compensation insurance programs. Our liabilities associated with the exposure for unpaid claims and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported losses, generally is estimated with the assistance of external actuaries and by factoring in pending claims and historical trends and data. Our estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly different than our ultimate obligations if variables such as the frequency or severity of future incidents are significantly different than what we assume. Estimated insurance recoveries related to recorded liabilities are recorded as assets when we believe that the receipt of such amounts is probable. Results of Operations The following table presents, for the periods indicated, the period to period change in dollars (in millions) and percentages for the respective statement of operations line items: Period to Period Change Years Ended Years Ended December 31, December 31, 2005 vs. 2004 2004 vs. 2003 Statement of Operations: Operating revenues $ 558 4.5 % $ 868 7.5 % Costs and expenses: Operating (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown below) 403 4.9 637 8.4 Selling, general and administrative 9 0.7 51 4.2 Depreciation and amortization 25 1.9 71 5.6 Restructuring 29 * (45 ) * Asset impairments and unusual items 81 * (5 ) * 547 5.1 709 7.0 Income from operations 11 0.6 159 10.3 Other income (expense): Interest expense, net (80 ) (20.8 ) 42 9.8 Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated entities (9 ) (9.2 ) (102 ) * Minority interest (12 ) (33.3 ) (30 ) * Other, net 4 * (14 ) * (97 ) (18.6 ) (104 ) (24.9 ) Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles (86 ) (7.3 ) 55 4.9 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (337 ) * (157 ) * Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles $ 251 27.0 % $ 212 29.5 % * Percentage change is not meaningful. Refer to the explanations of these items included herein for a discussion of the relationship between current year and prior year activity. 29 Table of Contents The following table presents, for the periods indicated, the percentage relationship that the respective statement of operations line items has to operating revenues: Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Statement of Operations: Operating revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Costs and expenses: Operating (exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown below) 66.0 65.7 65.2 Selling, general and administrative 9.8 10.1 10.4 Depreciation and amortization 10.4 10.7 10.9 Restructuring 0.2 0.4 Asset impairments and unusual items 0.5 (0.1 ) (0.1 ) 86.9 86.4 86.8 Income from operations 13.1 13.6 13.2 Other income (expense): Interest expense, net (3.6 ) (3.1 ) (3.7 ) Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated entities (0.8 ) (0.8 ) Minority interest (0.4 ) (0.3 ) Other, net 0.1 (4.8 ) (4.2 ) (3.6 ) Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 8.3 9.4 9.6 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (0.7 ) 2.0 3.4 Income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles 9.0 % 7.4 % 6.2 % 30 Table of Contents Operating Revenues Our operating revenues in 2005 were $13.1 billion, compared with $12.5 billion in 2004 and $11.6 billion in 2003. We manage and evaluate our operations primarily through our Eastern, Midwest, Southern, Western, Wheelabrator (which includes our waste to energy facilities and independent power production plants, or IPPs) and Recycling Groups. These six operating Groups are our reportable segments. Shown below (in millions) is the contribution to revenues during each year from our six operating Groups and our Other waste services: Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Eastern $ 3,809 $ 3,744 $ 3,591 Midwest 3,054 2,971 2,840 Southern 3,590 3,480 3,149 Western 3,079 2,884 2,725 Wheelabrator 879 835 819 Recycling 833 745 567 Other 296 261 220 Intercompany (2,466 ) (2,404 ) (2,263 ) Total $ 13,074 $ 12,516 $ 11,648 Our operating revenues generally come from fees charged for our collection, disposal, transfer, Wheelabrator and recycling services. Some of the fees we charge to our customers for collection services are billed in advance; a liability for future service is recorded when we bill the customer and operating revenues are recognized as services are actually provided. Revenues from our disposal operations consist of tipping fees, which are generally based on the weight, volume and type of waste being disposed of at our disposal facilities and are normally billed monthly or semi monthly. Fees charged at transfer stations are generally based on the volume of waste deposited, taking into account our cost of loading, transporting and disposing of the solid waste at a disposal site, and are normally billed monthly. Our Wheelabrator revenues are based on the type and volume of waste received at our waste to energy facilities and IPPs and fees charged for the sale of energy and steam. Recycling revenue, which is generated by our Recycling Group as well as our four geographic operating Groups, generally consists of the sale of recyclable commodities to third parties and tipping fees. Intercompany revenues between our operations have been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. The mix of operating revenues from our different services is reflected in the table below (in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Collection $ 8,633 $ 8,318 $ 7,782 Landfill 3,089 3,004 2,834 Transfer 1,756 1,680 1,582 Wheelabrator 879 835 819 Recycling and other 1,183 1,083 894 Intercompany (2,466 ) (2,404 ) (2,263 ) Total $ 13,074 $ 12,516 $ 11,648 31 Table of Contents The following table provides details associated with the period to period change in revenues (in millions) along with an explanation of the significant components of the current period changes: Period to Period Period to Period Change for Change for 2005 vs. 2004 2004 vs. 2003 Average yield: Base business $ 336 2.7 % $ 85 0.7 % Commodity (38 ) (0.3 ) 143 1.2 Electricity (IPPs) 4 2 Fuel surcharges and fees 161 1.3 53 0.5 Total 463 3.7 283 2.4 Volume 3 340 3.0 Internal growth 466 3.7 623 5.4 Acquisitions 112 0.9 233 2.0 Divestitures (62 ) (0.5 ) (27 ) (0.2 ) Foreign currency translation 42 0.3 39 0.3 $ 558 4.4 % $ 868 7.5 % Base Business In 2005, base business yield improvements were driven by our collection operations, where we experienced substantial revenue growth in every geographic operating group. The significant base business yield improvements in the collection line of business are primarily the result of our continued focus on pricing initiatives as a means of increasing our margins, cash flows and return on capital and, to a lesser extent, the adoption of a 1% environmental cost recovery fee, which increased revenues by $33 million during 2005. Our transfer business in the East and municipal solid waste landfill disposal operations in the South have also provided significant revenue growth from base business yield improvements throughout the year. During the second half of 2005, we received substantial yield contributions to revenues from our waste to energy facilities. These revenue improvements were largely due to significant increases in the rates charged for electricity under our long term contracts with electric utilities. These rates are generally indexed to natural gas prices, which increased significantly in 2005 as a result of hurricane related production disruptions, increased demand and increases in crude oil prices. The 2005 revenue improvements attributable to yield have been partially offset by a general decline in yield in special waste landfill disposal operations, noted principally in our Midwest and Southern Groups. In 2004, base business yield improvements contributed to increased revenues in our collection, transfer and waste to energy operations. In our collection business, the most substantial yield improvements during 2004 were in our industrial and residential operations, where nearly all of our operating groups experienced base business pricing improvements. Although the change in yield provided by our collection operations throughout 2004 was positive, it was affected by increased price competition, particularly in the Midwest, and the unfavorable impact of lower priced recycling and yard waste service programs in the South. The base business yield improvements in our transfer business throughout 2004 were almost exclusively attributable to the Eastern portion of the United States. Base business yield increases during 2004 were partially offset by average yield declines in our landfill operations. This decline was primarily the net result of the continued impact of lower pricing for special waste, particularly in the South and Midwest, which was partially offset by increased pricing for municipal solid waste disposal. Commodity Our revenues in 2005 declined due to price decreases in recycling commodities. Average prices for old corrugated cardboard dropped by 8% during the year, from $85 per ton in 2004 to $78 per ton in 2005. Average prices for old newsprint were also down by about 3%, from $86 per ton in 2004 to $83 per ton in 2005. Conversely, our revenues in 2004 were positively affected by price increases in all of the recycling commodities that we process. 32 Table of Contents A significant portion of revenues attributable to commodities is rebated to our suppliers of recyclable materials. Accordingly, changes in our revenues due to fluctuations in commodity prices have a corresponding impact on our cost of goods sold. Fuel surcharges and fees Fuel surcharges increased revenues year over year by $157 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and $53 million for the year ended December 31, 2004 due to our continued effort to pass on higher fuel costs to our customers through fuel surcharges. The substantial current year increases in revenue provided by our fuel surcharge program can generally be attributed to (i) increases in market prices for fuel; (ii) an increase in the number of customers who participate in our fuel surcharge program; and (iii) the revision of our fuel surcharge program at the beginning of the third quarter of 2005 to incorporate the indirect fuel cost increases passed on to us by subcontracted haulers and vendors. During the year ended December 31, 2005, increased operating costs due to higher diesel fuel prices, which are included within both Operating Expenses Subcontractor Costs and Operating Expenses Fuel, were substantially recovered by our fuel surcharge program. Volume Volume related revenues are relatively flat when comparing 2005 with 2004. This is generally because of the combined impacts of (i) a decline in revenues associated with hurricanes; (ii) increases in recycling and landfill disposal volumes; and (iii) lower revenue from residential, commercial and industrial collection volumes, particularly in the East and Midwest, which can generally be attributed to our focus on improving our margins by increasing yield. Our volume related revenues generated from hurricane related services were $56 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared with $115 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The $59 million decline was partially due to the temporary suspension of certain of our operations in the Gulf Coast region during 2005 as a result of the severe destruction caused by Hurricane Katrina. In addition, much of our 2004 hurricane related revenues were associated with subcontracted services, which generated comparatively lower margins. In 2005, we generally elected not to undertake hurricane related projects for which we could not support the required services with internal resources. When excluding the impacts of the hurricanes, revenue due to volume increased $62 million, or 0.5% during 2005. Current year volume related revenue increases have largely been due to (i) increased recycling volumes provided by several new brokerage contracts; (ii) increased landfill disposal volumes in the Midwest, West and South; (iii) increased transfer station volumes in the West and the South; and (iv) increased residential collection volumes in the West. Also included as a component of volume related revenue growth is revenue generated from our construction of an integrated waste facility on behalf of a municipality in our Midwest Group. The revenue generated by this project was low margin and largely offset by a corresponding increase in cost of goods sold. These revenue increases were largely offset by volume declines experienced in each line of business in the Eastern portion of the United States and significant volume declines in our collection business in the Midwest. We believe volume declines in our collection and transfer businesses in the East and Midwest can generally be attributed to our focus on improving base business yield and the price competition typical in these regions. During 2004, we experienced significant volume related revenue increases in our collection and landfill businesses. A substantial portion of volume related revenue growth was due to the volume increases experienced in industrial collection operations for each of our operating Groups. In the Southern and Western portions of the United States, our residential collection, transfer, construction and demolition disposal and special waste landfill disposal operations also made substantial contributions to revenue growth throughout 2004. Acquisitions and divestitures During the year ended December 31, 2005, acquisitions contributed $112 million of additional revenues offset by a decline in revenue of $62 million during the year as a result of divestitures. We expect the decrease in revenues attributable to divestitures to increase in future periods as a result of our plan to divest under performing or non strategic operations. In 2004, the increase in revenues due to acquisitions was largely related to the full year impact of our acquisition of collection assets from Allied Waste Industries, Inc. in the third and fourth quarters of 2003. Other acquisitions of recycling, transfer and waste to energy businesses consummated subsequent to the third quarter of 2003 also provided increases in revenues during 2004. 33 Table of Contents Operating Expenses (Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Shown Below) Our operating expenses include (i) labor and related benefits (excluding labor costs associated with maintenance and repairs included below), which include salaries and wages, related payroll taxes, insurance and benefits costs and the costs associated with contract labor; (ii) transfer and disposal costs, which include tipping fees paid to third party disposal facilities and transfer stations; (iii) maintenance and repairs relating to equipment, vehicles and facilities and related labor costs; (iv) subcontractor costs, which include the costs of independent haulers who transport our waste to disposal facilities; (v) costs of goods sold, which are primarily the rebates paid to suppliers associated with recycling commodities; (vi) fuel costs, which represent the costs of fuel and oil to operate our truck fleet and landfill operating equipment; (vii) disposal and franchise fees and taxes, which include landfill taxes, municipal franchise fees, host community fees and royalties; (viii) landfill operating costs, which include landfill remediation costs, leachate and methane collection and treatment, other landfill site costs and interest accretion on asset retirement obligations; (ix) risk management costs, which include workers compensation and insurance and claim costs and (x) other operating costs, which include, among other costs, equipment and facility rent and property taxes. The following table summarizes the major components of our operating expenses, including the impact of foreign currency translation, for the year ended December 31 for the respective periods (in millions): Period to Period Period to Period 2005 Change 2004 Change 2003 Labor and related benefits $ 2,471 $ 84 3.5 % $ 2,387 $ 129 5.7 % $ 2,258 Transfer and disposal costs 1,270 (19 ) (1.5 ) 1,289 101 8.5 1,188 Maintenance and repairs 1,135 35 3.2 1,100 30 2.8 1,070 Subcontractor costs 937 26 2.9 911 190 26.4 721 Cost of goods sold 645 49 8.2 596 122 25.7 474 Fuel 532 131 32.7 401 79 24.5 322 Disposal and franchise fees and taxes 642 22 3.5 620 20 3.3 600 Landfill operating costs 233 14 6.4 219 22 11.2 197 Risk management 312 (7 ) (2.2 ) 319 319 Other 454 68 17.6 386 (56 ) (12.7 ) 442 $ 8,631 $ 403 4.9 % $ 8,228 $ 637 8.4 % $ 7,591 Labor and related benefits When comparing 2005 with 2004, these costs have increased due to (i) salary and wage increases as a result of annual merit increases; (ii) a general increase in employee health care and benefit costs; (iii) an increase in the costs attributable to contract labor used at our material recovery facilities due to acquisitions; and (iv) increased payroll taxes. In 2004, the year over year increase in costs was generally due to higher salary costs and higher hourly wage and overtime costs. For purposes of the above disclosure, the presentation of prior years has been conformed to our current year presentation that excludes labor costs related to fleet and container maintenance facilities as well as workers compensation costs. Labor costs attributable principally to our fleet and container maintenance facilities of $395 million for 2004 and $376 million for 2003 have been reclassified as a component of the caption Maintenance and repairs, and workers compensation costs of $131 million for 2004 and $139 million for 2003 have been included as a component of the caption Risk management. Transfer and disposal costs In 2005, the costs incurred by our collection operations to dispose of waste at third party transfer stations or landfills declined due to our focus on improving internalization. These costs significantly increased in 2004 as compared with 2003 due principally to volume increases from both general operating activities and acquisitions. Maintenance and repairs Increases in these costs are attributable to (i) higher parts and supplies costs, which were driven by changes in the scope of maintenance projects at our waste to energy facilities and 34 Table of Contents increased volumes in our Southern and Western Groups; (ii) increases in the cost of lubes and oils; and (iii) increases in the labor costs associated with our maintenance and repairs. Subcontractor costs Throughout 2005 and 2004 we have experienced increases in subcontractor costs due to higher diesel fuel prices, which drive the fuel surcharges we pay to third party subcontractors. Subcontractor cost increases attributable to higher fuel costs were significantly offset by the revenue generated from our fuel surcharge program, which is reflected as fuel yield increases within Operating Revenues. Additionally, in 2005 we incurred additional transportation costs due to increased volumes in subcontracted work, particularly in our National Accounts organization and Western Group. The current year cost increases were partially offset by a year over year decline in the utilization of subcontractors to assist in providing hurricane related services. In addition to the significant increase in subcontractor costs related to hurricane related services during 2004, we also experienced increases due to (i) the impact of acquisitions; (ii) increased third party transportation costs in our Western Group due to the service requirements of certain event work; and (iii) additional transportation costs in our Eastern Group due to capacity constraints at some of our landfills. Cost of goods sold These costs are primarily for rebates paid to our suppliers, which are driven by the market prices of recyclable commodities. In 2005, we experienced lower market prices for recyclable commodities than in prior years. This decrease in pricing was more than offset by increased recycling volumes in 2005 due to several new brokerage contracts and recent acquisitions. In 2005, the increase in cost of goods sold was also partially due to costs incurred to construct an integrated waste facility for a municipality in the Midwest Group. The increase in 2004 over 2003 is directly related to the year over year increase in market prices of recyclable commodities. Fuel We experienced an average increase of $0.59 per gallon for 2005 as compared with 2004 and in 2004 we experienced an average increase of $0.30 per gallon for 2004 over 2003. While we recover a significant portion of the cost increases incurred as a result of higher fuel prices through our fuel surcharge program, increased fuel costs continue to negatively affect our operating margins. Revenues generated by our fuel surcharge program are reflected as fuel yield increases within Operating Revenues. Disposal and franchise fees and taxes These cost increases are the result of increased volumes and increased rates for mandated fees and taxes. Certain of these cost increases are passed through to our customers, and have been reflected as fee yield increases within Operating Revenues. Landfill operating costs These cost increases have generally been related to higher site maintenance, leachate collection, monitoring and testing, and closure and post closure expenses. Risk management Over the last two years, we have been successful in maintaining these costs at a consistent level largely due to reduced workers compensation costs, which can partially be attributed to our continued focus on safety and reduced accident and injury rates. Other operating expenses The increase in these costs since 2004 can be attributed to (i) Hurricane Katrina related support costs, particularly in Louisiana, where we built Camp Waste Management to house and feed hundreds of our employees who worked in the New Orleans area to help with the cleanup efforts; (ii) a year over year decrease in the realization of gains on sales of assets; (iii) costs incurred during 2005 attributable to labor strikes in New Jersey and Canada; and (iv) an increase in costs generated by a surety bonding company we have consolidated since the third quarter of 2003 under the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (FIN 46). The primary reason for the decrease during 2004 as compared with 2003 is the December 31, 2003 consolidation of two special purpose type variable interest entities, from which we lease three waste to energy facilities. The consolidation of these entities is as a result of our FIN 46 implementation. Prior to the consolidation of these entities, we accounted for these arrangements as operating leases. The consolidation of these entities, therefore, resulted in a decline in rental expense in 2004, which was mostly offset by increases in depreciation, interest expense and minority interest expense. 35 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist of (i) labor costs, which include salaries, related insurance and benefits, contract labor, payroll taxes and equity based compensation; (ii) professional fees, which include fees for consulting, legal, audit and tax services; (iii) provision for bad debts, which includes allowances for uncollectible customer accounts and collection fees; and (iv) other general and administrative expenses, which include, among other costs, facility related expenses, voice and data telecommunications, advertising, travel and entertainment, rentals, postage and printing. The following table summarizes the major components of our selling, general and administrative costs for the year ended December 31 for the respective periods (in millions): Period to Period Period to Period 2005 Change 2004 Change 2003 Labor and related benefits $ 757 $ 16 2.2 % $ 741 $ 15 2.1 % $ 726 Professional fees 152 (17 ) (10.1 ) 169 18 11.9 151 Provision for bad debts 52 4 8.3 48 2 4.3 46 Other 315 6 1.9 309 16 5.5 293 $ 1,276 $ 9 0.7 % $ 1,267 $ 51 4.2 % $ 1,216 Labor and related benefits Throughout 2005 we experienced increases in (i) non cash compensation costs associated with recent changes in equity based compensation provided for by our long term incentive plan and (ii) group insurance costs largely due to general health care cost increases. In both 2005 and 2004, these costs increased year over year due to higher salaries and hourly wages driven by annual merit raises as well as higher bonus expense due to the overall improvement in our performance on a year over year basis. Also contributing to the increase in labor costs in 2004 when compared with 2003 was an increase in commissions paid to our sales personnel. Declines in our use of contract labor, particularly for Corporate support functions, partially offset these cost increases for both 2005 and 2004. Additionally, during the second half of 2005 we began to realize the benefits of our July 2005 reorganization, which simplified our management structure to increase the accountability and responsibility of our Market Areas. Our ability to streamline our organization in this manner can be attributed to our continued focus on creating efficiencies with our key personnel. Our 2005 and 2003 restructurings have been a result of identifying the most effective utilization of our resources, and are discussed in the Restructuring section below. Professional fees In 2004, we experienced an increase in professional fees as a result of higher litigation and defense costs as well as consulting fees that were largely due to our implementation of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. The decline in our litigation and defense costs in the current year is due to several cases winding down and either being settled or moving into the settlement stages. Consulting costs associated with Sarbanes Oxley compliance have also decreased as we move from the implementation phase to continued monitoring and testing. In 2005, an increase in consulting fees related to our pricing initiatives and an increase in our computer support costs have partially offset these reductions. Provision for bad debts As a percentage of revenue, these costs have continued to decline largely due to improved collection efforts. The increase in these costs in 2005 was generally attributable to a year over year increase in third party collection costs. Other selling, general and administrative costs Although we did not see a significant fluctuation in these costs when comparing 2005 with 2004, increased sales and marketing costs related to our national advertising campaign did result in a notable increase in these expenses in the current year. The recognition of favorable settlements for legal disputes during 2003 drove the increase in these costs from 2003 to 2004. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization includes (i) depreciation of property and equipment, including assets recorded due to capital leases, on a straight line basis from three to 50 years; (ii) amortization of landfill costs, 36 Table of Contents including those incurred and all estimated future costs for landfill development, construction, closure and post closure, on a units of consumption method as landfill airspace is consumed over the estimated remaining capacity of a site; (iii) amortization of landfill asset retirement costs arising from final capping obligations on a units of consumption method as airspace is consumed over the estimated capacity associated with each final capping event; and (iv) amortization of intangible assets with a definite life, either using a 150% declining balance approach or a straight line basis over the definitive terms of the related agreements, which are from two to ten years depending on the type of asset. Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $25 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. This increase is largely attributable to a $21 million charge to landfill amortization recorded to adjust the amortization periods of nine of our landfills. These adjustments reflect cumulative corrections resulting from reducing the amortization periods of the landfills and were necessary to align the lives of the landfills for amortization purposes with the terms of the underlying contractual agreements supporting their operations. We determined that the impact of these adjustments was not material to 2005 or prior periods results of operations. Our 2005 landfill airspace and landfill asset retirement cost amortization also increased when compared with 2004 as a result of the comparative impact of landfill amortization reductions recorded in each year for changes in estimates related to our final capping, closure and post closure obligations. During the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, landfill amortization expense was reduced by $12 million and $20 million, respectively, with the majority of the reduced expense resulting from revised estimates associated with final capping changes. Similar adjustments did not significantly affect our landfill amortization expense in 2003. Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $71 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 as compared with 2003. The increase in depreciation and amortization in 2004 was primarily related to (i) an increase in our landfill amortization rate, net of the adjustment related to our landfill retirement costs, of $0.19 per ton, and, to a lesser extent, an increase in landfill airspace amortization due to higher volumes; (ii) increased information technology depreciation expense recognized as a result of placing additional enterprise wide software systems into service during the latter half of 2003; and (iii) increased depreciation expense for our Wheelabrator Group as a result of consolidating two variable interest entities. Restructuring Management continuously reviews our organization to determine if we are operating under the most advantageous structure. These reviews have highlighted efficiencies and cost savings we could capture by restructuring. The most significant cost savings we have obtained through our restructurings have been attributable to the labor and related benefits component of our Selling, general and administrative expenses. The following summarizes the organizational changes that have occurred during the last three years to reach our current structure. In February 2003, we reduced the number of market areas that make up our geographic operating Groups and reduced certain overhead positions to streamline our organization. As a result, we incurred $20 million in one time employee severance and benefit costs. The operational efficiencies provided by the February 2003 organizational changes enabled us to further reduce our workforce in June 2003. We recorded an additional $24 million of pre tax charges for employee severance and benefit costs associated with this workforce reduction during 2003. In 2004, we recorded a $1 million credit to reduce our accrual for severance costs associated with the 2003 workforce reductions. During the third quarter of 2005, we reorganized and simplified our organizational structure by eliminating certain support functions performed at the Group or Corporate office. We also eliminated the Canadian Group office, which reduced the number of our operating groups from seven to six. This reorganization has reduced costs at the Group and Corporate offices and increased the accountability of our Market Areas. We recorded $28 million of pre tax charges for costs associated with the implementation of the new structure, principally for employee severance and benefit costs. 37 Table of Contents Asset Impairments and Unusual Items The following table summarizes the major components of Asset impairments and unusual items for the year ended December 31 for the respective periods (in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Asset impairments $ 116 $ 17 $ 5 Net gains on divestitures (79 ) (12 ) (13 ) Other 31 (18 ) $ 68 $ (13 ) $ (8 ) The significant transactions and events resulting in asset impairments, net gains on divestitures and other financial statement impacts within Asset impairments and unusual items in our Consolidated Statements of Operations during the three years ended December 31, 2005 are discussed below: Year Ended December 31, 2005 Asset impairments During the second quarter of 2005, we recorded a $35 million charge for the impairment of the Pottstown Landfill located in West Pottsgrove Township, Pennsylvania. We determined that an impairment was necessary after the Pennsylvania Environmental Hearing Board upheld a denial by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection of a permit application for a vertical expansion at the landfill. After the denial was upheld, the Company reviewed the options available at the Pottstown Landfill and the likelihood of the possible outcomes of those options. After such evaluation and considering the length of time required for the appeal process and the permit application review, we decided not to pursue an appeal of the permit denial. This decision was primarily due to the expected impact of the permitting delays, which would hinder our ability to fully utilize the expansion airspace before the landfills required closure in 2010. We continued to operate the Pottstown Landfill using existing permitted airspace through the landfills permit expiration date of October 2005. The Pottstown Landfill had not been a significant contributor to our recent earnings nor do we expect the expansion denial to have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations or cash flows. Through June 30, 2005, our Property and equipment had included approximately $80 million of accumulated costs associated with a revenue management system. Approximately $59 million of these costs were specifically associated with the purchase of the software along with efforts required to develop and configure that software for our use, while the remaining costs were associated with the general efforts of integrating a revenue management system with our existing applications and hardware. The development efforts associated with our revenue management system were suspended in 2003. Since that time, there have been changes in the viable software alternatives available to address our current needs. During the third quarter of 2005, we concluded our assessment of potential revenue management system options. As a result, we entered into agreements with a new software vendor for the license, implementation and maintenance of certain of its applications software, including waste and recycling functionality. We believe that these newly licensed applications, when fully implemented, will provide substantially better capabilities and functionality than the software we were developing. Our plan to implement this newly licensed software resulted in a $59 million charge in the third quarter of 2005 for the software that had been under development and capitalized costs associated with the development efforts specific to that software. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we recognized an $18 million charge for asset impairments. This charge was primarily attributable to the impairment of a landfill in our Eastern Group, as a result of a change in our expectations for future expansions, and the impairment of capitalized software costs related to two applications we decided not to develop further. Net gains on divestitures During the first quarter of 2005, we recognized a $39 million gain as a result of the divestiture of a landfill in Ontario, Canada, which was required as a result of a Divestiture Order from the Canadian Competition Bureau. During the remainder of 2005, we recognized a total of $40 million in 38 Table of Contents gains as a result of the divestiture of operations. With the exception of our divestiture of the Ontario, Canada landfill, our divestitures during 2005 were generally part of our plan to review under performing or non strategic operations and to either improve their performance or dispose of the operations. Total proceeds from divestitures completed during the year ended December 31, 2005 were $172 million, of which $140 million was received in cash, $23 million was in the form of a note receivable and $9 million was in the form of non monetary assets. We do not believe that these divestitures are material either individually or in the aggregate and we do not expect these divestitures to materially affect our consolidated financial position or future results of operations or cash flows. Other During the first quarter of 2005, we recognized a charge of approximately $16 million for the impact of a litigation settlement reached with a group of stockholders that opted not to participate in the 2000 settlement of the securities class action lawsuit against us related to 1998 and 1999 activity. During the third quarter of 2005, we settled our ongoing defense costs and any future indemnity obligations for four former officers of WM Holdings related to legacy litigation brought by the SEC against such former officers. As a result, we recorded a $26.8 million charge for the funding of the court ordered distribution to our shareholders for the former officers settlement of the litigation. As discussed in Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, this settlement agreement resulted in a distribution of $27.5 million to WMI shareholders of record as of August 25, 2005. These charges were partially offset by the recognition of a $12 million net benefit recorded during the year ended December 31, 2005, which was primarily for adjustments to our receivables and estimated obligations for non solid waste operations divested in 1999 and 2000. Year Ended December 31, 2004 For 2004, the significant items included within Asset impairments and unusual items were (i) $17 million in impairment losses primarily due to the impairment of certain landfill assets and software development costs; (ii) $12 million in gains on divestitures that primarily related to certain Port O Let operations; and (iii) $18 million in miscellaneous net gains, which were primarily for adjustments to our estimated obligations associated with non solid waste services, which were divested in 1999 and 2000. Year Ended December 31, 2003 For 2003, the significant items included within Asset impairments and unusual items were $5 million in impairment losses primarily due to the impairment of certain landfill assets and $13 million in gains on divestitures that primarily related to divested operations in the Western Group. Income From Operations by Reportable Segment The following table summarizes income from operations by reportable segment for the year ended December 31 for each respective period and provides explanations of factors contributing to the significant changes in our segments operating results (in millions): Period to Period Period to Period 2005 Change 2004 Change 2003 Eastern $ 361 $ 3 0.8 % $ 358 $ 23 6.9 % $ 335 Midwest 426 40 10.4 386 11 2.9 375 Southern 699 34 5.1 665 63 10.5 602 Western 471 56 13.5 415 19 4.8 396 Wheelabrator 305 22 7.8 283 54 23.6 229 Recycling 15 (10 ) (40.0 ) 25 32 457.1 (7 ) Other 3 15 125.0 (12 ) 8 40.0 (20 ) Corporate (570 ) (149 ) (35.4 ) (421 ) (51 ) (13.8 ) (370 ) Total $ 1,710 $ 11 0.6 % $ 1,699 $ 159 10.3 % $ 1,540 39 Table of Contents Eastern Operating income was relatively flat when comparing 2005 with 2004. Current year operating income has been favorably affected by base business yield improvement, particularly in the collection and transfer lines of business and recent tuck in acquisitions. These operational improvements were offset by (i) the recognition of a net charge of $44 million to Asset impairments and unusual items, which was driven by the impairment of the Pottstown Landfill, and (ii) additional operating costs of $9 million attributable to a seven week labor strike in New Jersey in the first quarter of 2005. In addition, our focus on improving base business yield has resulted in partially offsetting volume declines during 2005, which reflects the competitive nature of the region and our decision to concentrate on higher margin revenues. The improvement in operating income from 2003 to 2004 was driven primarily by (i) revenue growth due to increased average yield across all major lines of business, partially offset by volume declines in transfer, residential collection and landfill operations throughout the year; (ii) higher operating expenses incurred in 2003 as compared with 2004 due to the first quarters harsh weather conditions; and (iii) acquisitions. These earnings improvements were partially offset by increased costs for labor and the transportation of waste, higher landfill amortization rates and the impairment of a landfill. Midwest The current year increase in income from operations was primarily due to revenue growth associated with increased base business yield for the collection line of business, which was driven principally by residential collection operations. Also positively affecting results compared with the prior year was a decline in landfill amortization expense generally as a result of changes in certain estimates related to our final capping, closure and post closure obligations. However, our focus on improving base business yield has resulted in partially offsetting volume declines during 2005. Operating income between 2003 and 2004 was relatively flat. The slight increase in operating income in 2004 can largely be attributed to higher operating expenses incurred in the first quarter of 2003 due to harsh winter weather conditions. Southern Strong internal revenue growth contributed significantly to the increase in income from operations during 2005. The most significant revenue growth was associated with base business yield improvements in the collection line of business and volume related revenue growth in the transfer and landfill disposal lines of business. In addition, $13 million of the increase in income from operations was attributable to gains recognized on the divestiture of operations during 2005. These increases were partially offset by (i) a decline in earnings related to hurricanes, largely due to the temporary suspension of operations in the areas affected by Hurricane Katrina; (ii) the effects of higher landfill amortization costs, generally due to reductions in landfill amortization periods to align the lives of the landfills for amortization purposes with the terms of the underlying contractual agreements supporting their operations; (iii) higher landfill amortization expense as a result of changes in certain estimates related to our final capping, closure and post closure obligations; and (iv) increases in salaries and wages. Operating income in 2004 was favorably affected by (i) positive internal revenue growth, largely due to volume increases in higher margin landfill operations; (ii) acquisitions; (iii) increased revenue during the second half of 2004 as a result of the hurricanes in the region during the third quarter; (iv) favorable landfill capping adjustments in the fourth quarter of 2004, largely offset by higher landfill amortization rates utilized throughout 2004; and (v) various operating and administrative cost reductions. These improvements were partially offset by a charge to Asset impairments and unusual items for the write off of a terminated landfill development project during the fourth quarter of 2004. Western The significant increase in income from operations in 2005 can partially be attributed to internal revenue growth, which was driven by yield improvements in commercial and industrial collection operations and volume growth in residential collection and transfer operations. In addition, during 2005, we recognized $24 million of gains associated with the divestiture of operations, an increase of approximately $14 million from 2004. These earnings improvements were partially offset by increased costs, particularly for labor and related benefits. The increase in operating income between 2003 and 2004 was primarily attributable to revenue growth, which was largely due to increased volumes in industrial and residential collection and transfer operations and 40 Table of Contents average yield improvements in our commercial and residential collection operations. These gains were partially offset by (i) increased labor costs; (ii) higher fuel costs not passed on to customers; and (iii) increases in third party transportation and other subcontractor costs. Wheelabrator The electric rates we charge to our customers at our waste to energy facilities increased significantly during the latter portion of 2005 as a result of higher market prices for natural gas, which increased significantly as a result of hurricane related production disruptions, increased demand and increases in crude oil prices. This increase in rates was the principal reason for the current year increase in Wheelabrators income from operations. The favorable impact of market prices for natural gas was partially offset by higher costs of goods sold and higher repair and maintenance costs due to the scope and timing of work performed in 2005 as compared with 2004. The increase in 2004 operating income was due in large part to (i) positive internal revenue growth driven by improved electricity pricing and average yield improvements on long term disposal contracts and (ii) the consolidation of two special purpose variable interest entities on December 31, 2003, which increased income from operations as a result of decreased operating costs, partially offset by increases in depreciation expense (the impact of the consolidation of these entities on income before income taxes is significantly reduced by increases in interest expense and minority interest expense). Wheelabrators 2003 operating results were favorably affected by an $11 million gain realized as a result of a legal settlement, which also significantly affected their trended income from operations for the years presented. Recycling The decrease in income from operations in our Recycling Group during 2005 when compared with the prior year can generally be attributed to (i) an increase in the rebates paid to our suppliers as a result of increased competition; (ii) costs related to the deployment of new software; and (iii) higher subcontractor costs primarily related to increased distances traveled by third party truckers. The comparability of operating results for the Recycling Group for all of the periods presented above has been affected by variances in the market prices for recyclable commodities. During the three years ended December 31, 2005, year over year changes in the quarterly average market prices of OCC and ONP have ranged from a decrease of as much as 37% to an increase of as much as 36%. In 2004, our operating revenues were favorably affected by significantly higher market prices for these commodities. Improvements in the market prices for recycable commodities provide marginal increases to our income from operations because a substantial portion of changes in market prices are generally passed on as rebates to our suppliers. Other The increase in income from operations from prior years is due to a pre tax gain of $39 million resulting from the divestiture of one of our landfills in Ontario, Canada during the first quarter of 2005. This impact is included in Asset impairments and unusual items within our Consolidated Statement of Operations. As this landfill had been divested at the time of our 2005 reorganization, historical financial information associated with its operations has not been allocated to our remaining reportable segments. Accordingly, these impacts have been included in Other. Partially offsetting this gain are certain year end adjustments related to the reportable segments that are not included in the measure of segment income from operations used to assess their performance for the periods disclosed. Corporate The higher expenses in the current year were driven primarily by impairment charges of $68 million associated with capitalized software costs and $31 million of net charges associated with various legal and divestiture matters. These items are discussed in the Asset Impairments and Unusual Items section above. Also contributing to the increase in expenses during 2005 were (i) an increase in non cash employee compensation costs associated with current year changes in equity based compensation; (ii) increases in employee health care costs; (iii) salary and wage increases attributable to annual merit raises; (iv) increased sales and marketing costs attributed to a national advertising campaign and consulting fees related to our pricing initiatives; and (v) costs at Corporate associated with our July 2005 restructuring charge and organizational changes, which were partially offset by associated savings at Corporate. Higher professional fees contributed to the increase in 2004 expenses as compared with 2003. 41 Table of Contents Other Components of Income Before Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles The following summarizes the other major components of our income before cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles for the year ended December 31 for each respective period (in millions): Period to Period to 2005 Period Change 2004 Period Change 2003 Interest expense, net $ 465 $ 80 20.8 % $ 385 $ (42 ) 9.8 % $ 427 Equity in losses (earnings) of unconsolidated entities 107 9 9.2 98 102 * (4 ) Minority interest 48 12 * 36 30 * 6 Other, net (2 ) (4 ) * 2 14 * (12 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (90 ) (337 ) * 247 (157 ) * 404 * Percentage change not meaningful. Refer to the explanations of these items below for a discussion of the relationship between current year and prior year activity. Interest Expense, net Net interest expense increased by $80 million from 2004 to 2005 due to a $41 million increase in interest expense and a $39 million decline in interest income. The increase in interest expense in 2005 is generally related to a decline in the benefit of our interest rate swaps. For all periods, we have experienced a positive impact to interest expense as a result of our interest rate derivative contracts, which we use to manage our exposure to changes in market interest rates. The combined benefit of active and terminated interest rate swap agreements resulted in net interest expense reductions of $39 million for 2005, $90 million for 2004 and $96 million for 2003. The significant decline in the benefit recognized as a result of our interest rate swap agreements in 2005 is largely attributable to the increase in short term market interest rates. Our periodic interest obligations under our interest rate swap agreements are based on a spread from the three month LIBOR, which has increased from 2.56% at December 31, 2004 to 4.54% at December 31, 2005. Included in the $39 million in net reductions to interest expense realized in 2005 for terminated and active interest rate swap agreements is $42 million related to the amortization of terminated swaps. Our terminated interest rate swaps are expected to reduce interest expense by $41 million in 2006, $37 million in 2007 and $33 million in 2008. The current year decrease in interest income is due primarily to interest income of $46 million realized during 2004 on tax refunds received from the IRS for the settlement of several federal audits. The comparability of net interest expense for 2004 and 2003 was also significantly affected by this increase in interest income in 2004. Equity in Losses (Earnings) of Unconsolidated Entities In the first and second quarters of 2004, we acquired an equity interest in two coal based synthetic fuel production facilities. Our equity interest in these facilities drives our equity in net losses of unconsolidated entities. The year over year increase in these losses is due to the timing of our initial investments in 2004. These equity losses are more than offset by the tax benefit realized as a result of these investments as discussed below within Provision for Income Taxes. If, for any reason, the tax credits generated by the facilities were no longer allowable under Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code, we could unwind the related investment in the period that determination is made and not incur these equity losses in future periods. Additional information related to these investments is included in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Minority Interest On December 31, 2003, we consolidated two special purpose type variable interest entities as a result of our implementation of FIN 46. Our minority interest expense for 2005 and 2004 is primarily related to the 42 Table of Contents other members equity interest in the earnings of these entities. The increase in minority interest expense as a result of the consolidation of these entities has been more than offset by related increases in our consolidated income from operations. The increase in minority interest expense in 2005 when compared with 2004 was largely due to the improved operating results of the surety bonding company that we began consolidating in 2003. Additional information related to these investments is included in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Other, net Our other income and expense is primarily attributable to the impact of foreign currency translation on our Canadian operations. Provision for Income Taxes We recorded a benefit from income taxes of $90 million in 2005 compared to a provision for income taxes of $247 million for 2004 and $404 million for 2003. For both 2005 and 2004, the effective income tax rates of (8.2)% and 21.0%, respectively, are significantly less than the 2003 effective income tax rate of 36.0% partially due to the resolution of significant tax audits within those years. The settlement of tax audits resulted in a reduction in income tax expense of $398 million in 2005, $101 million in 2004 and $6 million in 2003. Excluding the impact of tax audit settlements, the effective tax rate for 2005 and 2004 would be 28.2% and 29.5%. For 2005 and 2004, the decrease in our adjusted effective tax rate from 2003 is also attributable to our investments in two coal based synthetic fuel production facilities that we obtained in the first half of 2004. The decrease in our tax provision attributable to our equity investments in these coal based synthetic fuel production facilities of $145 million in 2005 and $131 million in 2004 more than offset the related equity losses and interest expense for those entities. These tax credits, as well as our non conventional fuel tax credits generated by our landfills, are available through 2007 pursuant to Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code, but may be phased out if the price of oil exceeds a threshold annual average price determined by the IRS. For all periods, a portion of the difference in federal income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate and reported income taxes is due to state and local income taxes. In 2005, we reduced our estimated effective state tax rate, causing us to realize a benefit of $16 million related to the reduction of accumulated deferred taxes that was offset in part by additional income tax expense of $4 million to increase the accrued deferred tax as a result of a change in the provincial tax rate in Quebec. In 2005, our overall tax benefit has been partially offset by the accrual of $34 million of taxes associated with our repatriation of $496 million of accumulated earnings and capital from certain of our Canadian subsidiaries under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which is discussed further within the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below. See Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Cumulative Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles On March 31, 2004, we recorded a credit of $8 million, net of taxes, or $0.01 per diluted share, to Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles as a result of the consolidation of previously unrecorded trusts as required by FIN 46. See Notes 2 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. In the first and fourth quarters of 2003, we recorded net of tax charges of $46 million and $43 million, respectively, to Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles for the initial adoption of the accounting changes described below. Through December 31, 2002, we accrued in advance for major repairs and maintenance expenditures and deferred costs associated with annual plant outages at our waste to energy facilities and independent power production plants. Effective January 1, 2003, we changed our policy from this method to one that expenses these costs as they are incurred. We recorded $25 million, net of taxes, or $0.04 per diluted share, as a credit to Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles. 43 Table of Contents Through December 31, 2002, we accrued for future losses under customer contracts that we entered into that over the contract life were projected to have direct costs greater than revenues. Effective January 1, 2003, we changed our policy from this method to one that expenses these costs as incurred. We recorded $30 million, net of taxes, or $0.05 per diluted share, as a credit to Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles. In connection with the adoption of SFAS No. 143, we recorded $101 million, including tax benefit, or $0.17 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2003 as a charge to Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles. Substantially all of this charge was related to the impact of changes in accounting for landfill final capping, closure and post closure costs. In connection with the application of FIN 46 to special purpose type variable interest entities, we recorded $43 million, including tax benefit, or $0.07 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2003 as a charge to Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles. For a discussion of these variable interest entities see Notes 2 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Liquidity and Capital Resources General As an organization that has consistently generated cash flows in excess of its reinvestment needs, our primary source of liquidity has been cash flows from operations. However, we operate in a capital intensive business and continued access to various financing resources is vital to our continued financial strength. In the past, we have been successful in obtaining financing from a variety of sources on terms we consider attractive. Based on several key factors we believe are considered important by credit rating agencies and financial markets in determining our access to attractive financing alternatives, we expect to continue to maintain access to capital sources in the future. These factors include: the essential nature of the services we provide and our large and diverse customer base; our ability to generate strong and consistent cash flows despite the economic environment; our liquidity profile; our asset base; and our commitment to maintaining a moderate financial profile and disciplined capital allocation. We continually monitor our actual and forecasted cash flows, our liquidity and our capital resources, enabling us to plan for our present needs and fund unbudgeted business activities that may arise during the year as a result of changing business conditions or new opportunities. In addition to our working capital needs for the general and administrative costs of our ongoing operations, we have cash requirements for: (i) the construction and expansion of our landfills; (ii) additions to and maintenance of our trucking fleet; (iii) refurbishments and improvements at waste to energy and materials recovery facilities; (iv) the container and equipment needs of our operations; and (v) capping, closure and post closure activities at our landfills. We are also committed to providing our shareholders with a return on their investment through our capital allocation program that provides for up to $1.2 billion in aggregate dividend payments and share repurchases each year during 2005, 2006 and 2007. We also continue to invest in acquisitions that we believe will be accretive and provide continued growth in our core business. On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) became law. A provision of the Act allowed U.S. companies to repatriate earnings from their foreign subsidiaries at a reduced tax rate during 2005. Our Chief Executive Officer and Board of Directors approved a domestic reinvestment plan under which we repatriated $496 million of our accumulated foreign earnings and capital in 2005. The repatriation was funded with cash on hand and bank borrowings. For a discussion of the tax impact and bank borrowings see Notes 7 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 44 Table of Contents Summary of Cash, Short Term Investments, Restricted Trust and Escrow Accounts and Debt Obligations The following is a summary of our cash, short term investments available for use, restricted trust and escrow accounts and debt balances as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 (in millions): 2005 2004 Cash and cash equivalents $ 666 $ 424 Short term investments available for use 300 19 Total cash, cash equivalents and short term investments available for use $ 966 $ 443 Restricted trust and escrow accounts: Tax exempt bond funds $ 185 $ 333 Closure, post closure and remediation funds 205 213 Debt service funds 52 83 Other 18 18 Total restricted trust and escrow accounts $ 460 $ 647 Debt: Current portion $ 522 $ 384 Long term portion 8,165 8,182 Total debt $ 8,687 $ 8,566 Increase in carrying value of debt due to hedge accounting for interest rate swaps $ 47 $ 135 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of cash on deposit, certificates of deposit, money market accounts, and investment grade commercial paper purchased with original maturities of three months or less. For discussion regarding the December 31, 2004 reclassification of cash, refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Basis of Presentation of Consolidated and Segment Financial Information section above. Short term investments available for use These investments include auction rate securities and variable rate demand notes, which are debt instruments with long term scheduled maturities and periodic interest rate reset dates. The interest rate reset mechanism for these instruments results in a periodic marketing of the underlying securities through an auction process. Due to the liquidity provided by the interest rate reset mechanism and the short term nature of our investment in these securities, they have been classified as current assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Restricted trust and escrow accounts Restricted trust and escrow accounts consist primarily of funds held in trust for the construction of various facilities or repayment of debt obligations, funds deposited in connection with landfill closure, post closure and remedial obligations and insurance escrow deposits. These balances are primarily included within Other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion. 45 Table of Contents Debt Revolving credit and letter of credit facilities The table below summarizes the credit capacity, maturity and outstanding letters of credit under our revolving credit facility, principal letter of credit facilities and other credit arrangements as of December 31, 2005 (in millions): Outstanding Total Credit Letters of Facility Capacity Maturity Credit Five year revolving credit facility(a) $ 2,400 October 2009 $ 1,459 Five year letter of credit and term loan agreement(b) 15 June 2008 15 Five year letter of credit facility(b) 350 December 2008 328 Seven year letter of credit and term loan agreement(b) 175 June 2010 175 Ten year letter of credit and term loan agreement(b) 105 June 2013 105 Other(c) Various 69 Total $ 3,045 $ 2,151 (a) This facility provides us with credit capacity that could be used for either cash borrowings or letters of credit. At December 31, 2005, no borrowings were outstanding under the facility, and we had unused and available credit capacity of $941 million. (b) These facilities have been established to provide us with letter of credit capacity. In the event of an unreimbursed draw on a letter of credit, the amount of the draw paid by the letter of credit provider generally converts into a term loan for the remaining term under the respective agreement or facility. Through December 31, 2005 we had not experienced any unreimbursed draws on our letters of credit. (c) We have letters of credit outstanding under various arrangements that do not provide for a committed capacity. Accordingly, the total credit capacity of these arrangements has been noted as zero. We have used each of these facilities to support letters of credit that we issue to support our insurance programs, certain tax exempt bond issuances, municipal and governmental waste management contracts, closure and post closure obligations and disposal site or transfer station operating permits. These facilities require us to pay fees to the lenders and our obligation is generally to repay any draws that may occur on the letters of credit. We expect that similar facilities may continue to serve as a cost efficient source of letter of credit capacity in the future, and we continue to assess our financial assurance requirements to ensure that we have adequate letter of credit and surety bond capacity in advance of our business needs. Canadian Credit Facility In November 2005, Waste Management of Canada Corporation, one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, entered into a three year credit facility agreement. The agreement was entered into to facilitate WMIs repatriation of accumulated earnings and capital from its Canadian subsidiaries as discussed above. The agreement, which matures November 30, 2008, allowed Waste Management of Canada Corporation to borrow up to Canadian $410 million at any time on or before December 31, 2005. Any unused portion of the available credit was subject to immediate cancellation. As of December 31, 2005, the entire credit capacity of the facility had been advanced resulting in proceeds of U.S. $339 million. The advances do not accrue interest during their terms. Accordingly, the proceeds we received were for the principal amount of U.S. $353 million net of the total interest obligation due for the term of the advance. The advances have a weighted average effective interest rate of 4.39% and mature either three months or twelve months from the date of issuance. However, the terms of the credit facility allow Waste Management of Canada Corporation to elect to renew the advances. As of December 31, 2005, we expect to repay U.S. $86 million of outstanding advances with available cash and renew the remaining borrowings under the terms of the facility. Accordingly, $86 million of debt associated with these borrowings is classified as current in our December 31, 2005 Consolidated Balance Sheet and the remaining borrowings have been classified as long term. Senior notes As of December 31, 2005, we had $5.2 billion of outstanding senior notes. The notes have various maturities ranging from October 2006 to May 2032, and interest rates ranging from 5.00% to 8.75%. On May 15, 2005, $100 million of 7.0% senior notes and $3 million of 6.65% senior notes matured and were repaid with cash on hand. We have $300 million of 7.0% senior notes that mature in October 2006 that we currently expect to repay with available cash. 46 Table of Contents Tax exempt bonds We actively issue tax exempt bonds as a means of accessing low cost financing for capital expenditures. As of December 31, 2005, we had $2.3 billion of outstanding tax exempt bonds. We issued $246 million of tax exempt bonds during 2005. The proceeds from these debt issuances were deposited directly into a trust fund and may only be used for the specific purpose for which the money was raised, which is generally the construction of collection and disposal facilities and for the equipment necessary to provide waste management services. Accordingly, the restricted funds provided by these financing activities have not been included in New borrowings in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2005. As we spend monies on the specific projects being financed, we are able to requisition cash from the trust funds. As discussed in the restricted trusts and escrow accounts section above, we have $185 million held in trust for future spending as of December 31, 2005. During 2005, we received $404 million from these funds for approved capital expenditures. As of December 31, 2005, $615 million of our tax exempt bonds are remarketed weekly by a remarketing agent to effectively maintain a variable yield. If the remarketing agent is unable to remarket the bonds, then the remarketing agent can put the bonds to us. These bonds are supported by letters of credit that were issued primarily under our $2.4 billion, five year revolving credit facility that guarantee repayment of the bonds in the event the bonds are put to us. Accordingly, these obligations have been classified as long term in our December 31, 2005 Consolidated Balance Sheet. Additionally, we have $333 million of fixed rate tax exempt bonds subject to repricing within the next twelve months, which is prior to their scheduled maturities. If the re offering of the bonds is unsuccessful, then the bonds can be put to us, requiring immediate repayment. These bonds are not backed by letters of credit supported by our long term facilities that would serve to guarantee repayment in the event of a failed re offering and are, therefore, considered a current obligation. However, these bonds have been classified as long term in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2005. The classification of these obligations as long term was based upon our intent to refinance the borrowings with other long term financings in the event of a failed re offering and our ability, in the event other sources of long term financing are not available, to use our five year revolving credit facility. Tax exempt project bonds As of December 31, 2005, we had $404 million of outstanding tax exempt project bonds. These debt instruments are primarily used by our Wheelabrator Group to finance the development of waste to energy facilities. The bonds generally require periodic principal installment payments. As of December 31 2005, $46 million of these bonds are remarketed either daily or weekly by a remarketing agent to effectively maintain a variable yield. If the remarketing agent is unable to remarket the bonds, then the remarketing agent can put the bonds to us. Repayment of these bonds has been guaranteed with letters of credit issued under our five year revolving credit facility. Accordingly, these obligations have been classified as long term in our December 31, 2005 Consolidated Balance Sheet. Approximately $51 million of our tax exempt project bonds will be repaid with available cash within the next twelve months. Convertible subordinated notes We had $35 million of convertible subordinated notes that we repaid, with cash on hand, upon maturity on January 24, 2005. Interest rate swaps We manage the interest rate risk of our debt portfolio principally by using interest rate derivatives to achieve a desired position of fixed and floating rate debt. As of December 31, 2005, the interest payments on $2.4 billion of our fixed rate debt have been swapped to variable rates, allowing us to maintain approximately 65% of our debt at fixed interest rates and approximately 35% at variable interest rates. Fair value hedge accounting for interest rate swap contracts increased the carrying value of debt instruments by $47 million as of December 31, 2005 and $135 million at December 31, 2004. 47 Table of Contents Summary of Cash Flow Activity The following is a summary of our cash flows for the year ended December 31 for each respective period (in millions): 2005 2004 2003 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,391 $ 2,218 $ 1,926 Net cash used in investing activities $ (1,062 ) $ (882 ) $ (1,084 ) Net cash used in financing activities $ (1,090 ) $ (1,130 ) $ (986 ) Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities We generated $2,391 million in cash flows from our operating activities during the year ended December 31, 2005 compared with $2,218 million in 2004, an increase of $173 million. In general, our current year operating cash flow was favorably affected by growth in our operating income and comparative changes in our trade and other receivables. As of December 31, 2005, our trade receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, have increased $40 million from December 31, 2004 compared with a $223 million increase in trade receivables during 2004. The increase in our receivables in both periods was primarily related to increased revenues, however, the significant change year over year can partially be attributed to 2004 receivable balances associated with significant revenues generated from hurricane related services provided in the second half of 2004. The relative change in our receivables can also be attributed to overall improvements in our collection efforts, which have contributed to a reduction in our days sales outstanding. Our 2005 and 2004 income taxes have been significantly affected by tax audit settlements. The increases in our net income associated with these tax benefits resulted in offsetting reductions in our accrued liability balances. Therefore, the significant variances in our income taxes during 2005, 2004 and 2003 have had an insignificant impact on each respective periods cash flows from operations. Cash generated from operations during 2003 was negatively affected by a $223 million net cash outflow for the settlement of our securities class action lawsuit, which was agreed to in 2001. This amount included: (i) a final net cash settlement payment, net of insurance proceeds of $377 million plus accrued interest; (ii) a total tax benefit of approximately $138 million and (iii) related net settlement recoveries of approximately $16 million. This net cash outflow was partially offset by $109 million of cash we received from counterparties for terminating certain interest rate swap agreements prior to their scheduled maturities. After adjusting 2003 for the unusual items mentioned above, our 2004 cash flows from operations increased $178 million over 2003. Our improved earnings and the favorable effects of our investments in two synthetic fuel partnerships were the primary contributors of this increase. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities We used $1,062 million of our cash resources for investing activities during 2005, an increase of $180 million as compared with 2004. This increase is primarily due to a $266 million change in net cash flows associated with purchases and sales of short term investments. Net purchases of short term investments during 2005 were $295 million compared with net purchases of $29 million during 2004. We increased our utilization of short term investments in the first quarter of 2004, which resulted in this activity being relatively insignificant in 2003. The increase in our short term investments available for use as of December 31, 2005 can generally be attributed to an increase in our available cash, which we plan to use to fund, among other things, a $275 million accelerated share repurchase agreement that became effective in January 2006 and our first quarter 2006 dividend that will be paid in March 2006. Our share repurchases and dividends are discussed in our Net Cash Used in Financing Activities section below. The current year increase in net cash outflows from investing activities as a result of our short term investments was partially offset by an increase in proceeds from divestitures of businesses and other sales of assets, which were $194 million in 2005, $96 million in 2004 and $74 million in 2003. The $98 million increase from 2004 to 2005 is largely attributable to the sale of one of our landfills in Ontario, Canada, as required by a Divestiture Order from the Canadian Competition Tribunal. As we continue to focus on our plan to divest of 48 Table of Contents certain under performing and non strategic operations, we expect proceeds from divestitures and other asset sales to make even greater contributions to our cash flows. Our cash used for capital expenditures and acquisition spending has also caused significant changes in our net cash used for investing activities for the three year period. Due to the capital intensive nature of our business, we have invested between $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion in property and equipment during each of the last three years. Capital expenditures for 2005 were $1,180 million, which is $78 million and $20 million less than we invested in capital in 2004 and 2003, respectively. Cash used for acquisitions was $142 million in 2005, $130 million in 2004 and $337 million in 2003. In recent years, our business acquisition strategy has been to focus on tuck in acquisitions, which are relatively small, accretive businesses that will easily integrate with, and provide value to, our existing operations. However, our 2003 acquisition activity was uncharacteristically high because of a few relatively large acquisitions that were made in addition to numerous smaller tuck in acquisitions, particularly in our recycling line of business. Our current market development and capital allocation strategies reflect our desire to continue to invest in businesses that will enable us to effectively utilize our existing assets and the development or acquisition of disposal assets, which tend to provide higher returns on investment and operating margins. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities The most significant changes in our financing cash flows during the three years ended December 31, 2005 are related to (i) variances in our net debt repayments, which can generally be attributed to scheduled maturities; (ii) increases in our dividend payments; and (iii) changes in cash paid for our repurchases of common stock. Cash paid for these financing activities are discussed below. Net debt repayments were $11 million in 2005, $386 million in 2004 and $456 million in 2003. The following summarizes our most significant cash borrowings and debt repayments made during each year: 2005 We received $365 million for new borrowings during the year, primarily related to our Canadian Credit Facility that was entered into to facilitate WMIs repatriation of accumulated earnings and capital from its Canadian subsidiaries. The terms of these borrowings are discussed above. We also repaid $376 million of debt, including $103 million of senior notes, $46 million of tax exempt project bonds, $35 million of convertible subordinated notes and $192 million associated with capital leases and other debt. 2004 We received proceeds of approximately $346 million from the March 2004 issuance of $350 million of 5.0% senior notes, repaid $150 million of 8.0% senior notes that matured in April 2004, $200 million of 6.5% senior notes that matured in May 2004 and $295 million of 7.0% senior notes that matured in October 2004. In addition, we borrowed $69 million, which was primarily for a short term note that was repaid in 2005, and repaid $25 million of tax exempt bonds and $42 million of tax exempt project bonds and made $89 million of payments for capital leases and other debt. 2003 Our borrowings were primarily related to tax exempt bonds and other debt. We repaid $435 million of 6.375% senior notes that matured in December 2003, $43 million of tax exempt project bonds and $85 million of capital lease obligations and other debt. In August 2003, our Board of Directors approved our quarterly dividend program, which began in the first quarter of 2004. Under this program, we declared and paid a dividend of $0.20 per share in each quarter of 2005 and of $0.1875 per share in each quarter of 2004. The payment of our quarterly dividends resulted in cash dividends of $449 million in 2005 and $432 million in 2004. Before this program was implemented, we paid an annual $0.01 per share dividend, which resulted in a $6 million dividend payment in 2003. In October 2005, the Board of Directors announced that it expects future quarterly dividend payments will be $0.22 per share. On December 15, 2005, the Board declared our first quarterly dividend for 2006 of $0.22 per share, which will be paid on March 24, 2006 to stockholders of record as of March 6, 2006. All future dividend declarations are at the discretion of the Board of Directors, and depend on various factors, including our net earnings, financial condition, cash required for future prospects and other factors the Board may deem relevant. We paid $706 million for share repurchases in 2005 as compared with $496 million paid during 2004 and $550 million paid in 2003. Our 2005 stock repurchases and dividend payments were made under a Board approved capital allocation program providing for the authorization of up to $1.2 billion for these activities 49 Table of Contents during each of 2005, 2006 and 2007. Since the inception of our repurchase program in February 2002, we have repurchased approximately 102 million shares of our common stock at a net cost of approximately $2.7 billion. We currently expect to continue repurchasing common stock under the capital allocation program discussed above, and in January 2006 repurchased approximately 9 million shares for $275 million under an accelerated share repurchase agreement. Future share repurchases under this program will be made at the discretion of management, and will depend on similar factors to those considered by the Board in making dividend declarations. Summary of Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005 and the anticipated effect of these obligations on our liquidity in future years (in millions): 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Thereafter Total Recorded Obligations: Expected environmental liabilities(a) Final capping, closure and post closure $ 114 $ 112 $ 92 $ 90 $ 92 $ 1,387 $ 1,887 Environmental remediation 47 39 24 16 14 202 342 161 151 116 106 106 1,589 2,229 Debt payments(b),(c),(d) 806 533 541 685 716 5,382 8,663 Cash dividend payment(e) 122 122 Unrecorded Obligations:(f) Non cancelable operating lease obligations 75 68 55 47 39 225 509 Estimated unconditional purchase obligations(g) 466 161 143 142 62 396 1,370 Anticipated liquidity impact as of December 31, 2005 $ 1,630 $ 913 $ 855 $ 980 $ 923 $ 7,592 $ 12,893 a) Environmental liabilities include final capping, closure, post closure and environmental remediation costs. The amounts included here reflect environmental liabilities recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2005 without the impact of discounting and inflation. Our recorded environmental liabilities will increase as we continue to place additional tons within the permitted airspace at our landfills. b) Our debt obligations as of December 31, 2005 include $333 million of fixed rate tax exempt bonds subject to re pricing within the next twelve months, which is prior to their scheduled maturities. If the re offering of the bonds is unsuccessful, then the bonds can be put to us, requiring immediate repayment. These bonds are not backed by letters of credit supported by our long term facilities that would serve to guarantee repayment in the event of a failed re offering and are, therefore, considered a current obligation. However, these bonds have been classified as long term in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2005. The classification of these obligations as long term was based upon our intent to refinance the borrowings with other long term financings in the event of a failed re offering and our ability, in the event other sources of long term financing are not available, to use our $2.4 billion, five year revolving credit facility. c) We have classified approximately $290 million of our debt obligations with contractual maturities on or before December 31, 2006 as long term in our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2005 because we have the intent and ability to refinance these obligations with long term debt instruments. d) Our recorded debt obligations include non cash adjustments associated with discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments for interest rate hedging activities. These amounts have been excluded here because they will not result in an impact to our liquidity in future periods. In addition, $52 million of our future debt payments and related interest obligations will be made with debt service funds held in trust and included as Other assets within our December 31, 2005 Consolidated Balance Sheet. e) On December 15, 2005, we declared our first quarterly cash dividend for 2006. The dividend is $0.22 per share and is payable March 24, 2006 to stockholders of record on March 6, 2006. Based on shares outstanding on December 31, 2005, the dividend declaration will result in a payment of $122 million. Our dividend declarations are under a Board of Directors approved capital allocation program that provides for up to $1.2 billion for stock repurchases and dividend payments in 2005, 2006 and 2007. All future dividend declarations are at the discretion of the Board and depend on various factors, including our net earnings, financial condition, cash required for future prospects and other relevant factors. f) Our unrecorded obligations represent operating lease obligations and purchase commitments from which we expect to realize an economic benefit in future periods. We have also made certain guarantees, as discussed in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, that we do not expect to materially affect our current or future financial position, results of operations or liquidity. g) Our unconditional purchase obligations are for various contractual obligations that we generally incur in the ordinary course of our business. Certain of our obligations are quantity driven. For these contracts, we have estimated our future obligations based on the current market values of the underlying products or services. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the nature and terms of our unconditional purchase obligations. 50 Table of Contents We have contingencies that are not considered reasonably likely. As a result, the impact of these contingencies have not been included in the above table. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these contingencies. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We are party to guarantee arrangements with unconsolidated entities as discussed in the Guarantees section of Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our third party guarantee arrangements are generally established to support our financial assurance needs and landfill operations. These arrangements have not materially affected our financial position, results of operations or liquidity during the year ended December 31, 2005 nor are they expected to have a material impact on our future financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Seasonal Trends and Inflation Our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in the summer months, primarily due to the higher volume of construction and demolition waste. The volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain regions where we operate also tend to increase during the summer months. Our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect these seasonal trends. Additionally, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year can actually increase our revenues in the areas affected. However, for several reasons, including significant start up costs, such revenue often generates comparatively lower margins. Certain weather conditions may actually result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect the operating results of the affected regions. The operating results of our first quarter also often reflect higher repair and maintenance expenses because we rely on the slower winter months, when electrical demand is generally lower, to perform scheduled maintenance at our waste to energy facilities. While inflationary increases in costs, including the cost of fuel, have affected our operating margins in recent periods, we believe that inflation generally has not had, and in the near future is not expected to have, any material adverse effect on our results of operations. However, managements estimates associated with inflation have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our accounting for landfill and environmental remediation liabilities. New Accounting Pronouncements Through December 31, 2005, we accounted for equity based compensation in accordance with APB No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, as amended. Under APB No. 25, companies were required to recognize compensation expense based on the intrinsic value of the award at the date of grant. For stock options, which were the primary form of awards we granted through December 31, 2004, this meant that we recognized no compensation expense in connection with the grants, as the exercise price of the options was equal to the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, which requires companies to recognize compensation expense based on the fair value of share based payments on the date of grant. We adopted SFAS No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006, which is discussed further in Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In December 2005, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors approved the acceleration of the vesting of all unvested stock options awarded under our stock incentive plans, effective December 28, 2005. The decision to accelerate the vesting of outstanding stock options was made primarily to reduce the non cash compensation expense that we would have otherwise recorded in future periods as a result of adopting SFAS No. 123(R). We estimate that the acceleration eliminated approximately $55 million of pre tax compensation charges that would have been recognized over the next three years as the stock options continued to vest. We recognized a $2 million pre tax charge to compensation expense during the fourth quarter of 2005 as a result of the acceleration, but will not be required to recognize future compensation 51 Table of Contents expense for the accelerated options under SFAS No. 123(R) unless further modifications are made to the options, which is not anticipated. Additionally, as a result of the changes in accounting under SFAS No. 123(R) and a desire to design our long term incentive plans in a manner that creates a stronger link to operating and market performance, our Board of Directors approved a substantial change in the form of awards that we grant. Beginning in 2005, annual stock options grants, as well as stock option grants in connection with new hires and promotions, were replaced with either (i) grants of restricted stock units and performance share units or (ii) an enhanced cash incentive compensation award. The restricted stock units granted in 2005 vest over four years and the performance share units cliff vest based on the achievement of certain performance targets after a three year performance period. Using APB No. 25, we generally have recognized compensation expense for these awards over their respective vesting periods. Compensation expense included in reported net income associated with restricted stock (shares of which were granted to a limited number of employees in each of the last three years), restricted stock units and performance share units was $17 million, or $11 million net of tax, for the year ended December 31, 2005. The amount of compensation expense recognized would not have been significantly different had we accounted for them under the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R). As a result of our Board of Directors decision to accelerate the vesting of outstanding options and replace stock options with restricted stock units and performance share units, we do not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) to significantly affect our accounting for equity based compensation since the resulting compensation expense for our new share based payment awards is not significantly different than under APB No. 25. However, we do expect compensation expense to increase over the next three to four years because of the incremental expense that will be recognized each year as our Board of Directors grants additional awards. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk. In the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, Canadian currency rates and certain commodity prices. From time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. Our derivatives are agreements with independent counterparties that provide for payments based on a notional amount, with no multipliers or leverage. As of December 31, 2005, all of our derivative transactions were related to actual or anticipated economic exposures although certain transactions did not qualify for hedge accounting. We are exposed to credit risk in the event of non performance by our derivative counterparties. However, we monitor our derivative positions by regularly evaluating our positions and the creditworthiness of the counterparties, all of whom we either consider credit worthy, or who have issued letters of credit to support their performance. We have performed sensitivity analyses to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk sensitive derivatives and related positions. These analyses are inherently limited because they reflect a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. Actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. The effects of market movements may also directly or indirectly affect our assumptions and our rights and obligations not covered by the sensitivity analyses. Fair value sensitivity is not necessarily indicative of the ultimate cash flow or the earnings effect from the assumed market rate movements. Interest Rate Exposure. Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our debt obligations, which are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. In addition, we use interest rate swaps to manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt obligations, which directly impacts variability in interest costs. An instantaneous, one percentage point increase in interest rates across all maturities and applicable yield curves would have decreased the fair value of our combined debt and interest rate swap positions by approximately $480 million at December 31, 2005 and $490 million at December 31, 2004. This analysis does not reflect the effect that increasing interest rates would have on other items, such as new borrowings, nor the unfavorable impact they would have on interest expense and cash payments for interest. We are also exposed to interest rate market risk because we have $460 million and $647 million of assets held in trust funds and escrow accounts included primarily as a component of long term Other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. These assets are generally restricted for future capital expenditures and closure, post closure and remedial activities at our disposal 52 Table of Contents facilities and are, therefore, invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market accounts and U.S. government agency debt securities. Because of the short terms to maturity of these investments, we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant. Currency Rate Exposure. From time to time, we have used currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency translation on cash flows of intercompany Canadian currency denominated debt transactions. At December 31, 2005 and 2004 we had no foreign currency derivatives outstanding. Commodities Price Exposure. We market recycled products such as wastepaper, aluminum and glass from our material recovery facilities. We enter into financial fiber swaps and options to mitigate the variability in cash flows from a portion of these sales. Under the swap agreements, we pay a floating index price and receive a fixed price for a fixed period of time. With regard to our option agreements, we have purchased price protection on certain wastepaper sales via synthetic floors (put options) and price protection on certain wastepaper purchases via synthetic ceilings (call options). Additionally, we have entered into collars (combination of a put and call option) with financial institutions in which we receive the market price for our wastepaper and aluminum sales within a specified floor and ceiling. We record changes in the fair value of commodity derivatives not designated as hedges to earnings, as required. All derivative transactions are subject to our risk management policy, which governs the type of instruments that may be used. The fair value position of our commodity derivatives would decrease by approximately $10 million at December 31, 2005 and by approximately $20 million at December 31, 2004 if there were an instantaneous 10% increase across all commodities and applicable yield curves. See Notes 3 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the use of and accounting for derivative instruments. 53 Table of Contents 
 
