Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This section includes a discussion of our operations for the three years ended December 31, 2006. This discussion may contain forward looking statements that anticipate results based on managements plans that are subject to uncertainty. We discuss in more detail various factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations in Item 1A, Risk Factors. The following discussion should be read in light of that disclosure and together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Overview Significant financial achievements during the year ended December 31, 2006 include: Net cash provided by operating activities increased to $2.54 billion and free cash flow increased to $1.45 billion, increases of 6.2% and 3.3%, respectively, when compared with 2005; Internal revenue growth of 2.7% in 2006, driven by the 3.6% increase in yield on base business, which is the highest base business yield increase we have had in at least six years; Improvement in our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue, which decreased by 1.7 percentage points from 66.0% of revenue in 2005 to 64.3% of revenue in 2006; and Nearly $1.1 billion in share repurchases and $476 million in dividends paid pursuant to our capital allocation plan. Free Cash Flow Free cash flow is a non GAAP measure of financial performance that we include in our disclosures because we believe the production of free cash flow is an important measure of our liquidity and performance and because we believe our investors are interested in the cash we produce from non financing activities that is available for acquisitions, share repurchases, scheduled debt repayments and the payment of 23 Table of Contents dividends. The most comparable GAAP financial measure to free cash flow is Net cash provided by operating activities. We calculate free cash flow as shown in the table below (in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,540 $ 2,391 Capital expenditures (1,329 ) (1,180 ) Proceeds from divestitures of businesses (net of cash divested) and other sales of assets 240 194 Free cash flow $ 1,451 $ 1,405 The growth in our 2006 operating and free cash flow reflects the current year improvements in our operating results, particularly those contributed by our increase in revenue from yield, which is discussed below. Revenue Growth Our revenues for the year increased over 2%, from $13,074 million in 2005 to $13,363 million in 2006. The overall increase was largely a result of internal revenue growth, or IRG. IRG is an important indicator of our performance as it is a measure of our ability to increase revenues from our existing operations. Our IRG for the year was 2.7% and consisted primarily of improvement in yield on base business and an increase in revenues related to our fuel surcharge program. Our revenue growth from improved yield on base business for 2006 was 3.6%, which is an increase of 0.9 percentage points from the prior year. In addition, our fuel surcharge program contributed $117 million to revenue growth in 2006 compared with $157 million in 2005. The revenues generated by the program in 2006 recovered the increase in our operating costs attributable to fuel. The increases in revenue from improved yield on base business and our fuel surcharge program were partially offset by decreased revenues due to lower volumes. Additionally, the positive effect IRG had on overall revenue growth was offset by divestitures during the year. We have divested of under performing operations, which resulted in lower revenues in the year. Although we continue to seek appropriate acquisitions, in 2006 we lost more revenue as a result of divestitures than we gained from acquisitions. As discussed below, we believe that the negative impact divestitures had on revenues resulted in improvements in our operating margins. Margin Improvement In 2006, our income from operations improved by $319 million, or 18.7%, as compared with 2005. Income from operations as a percentage of revenues was 15.2% for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared with 13.1% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Several items that negatively affected our 2005 results and are not part of our ongoing operations significantly impact the comparability of our 2006 and 2005 operating results. When focusing on our core operating costs (which are Operating; Selling, general and administrative; and Depreciation and amortization expenses) as a percentage of revenues, our margin improvement was considerable, increasing 1.6 percentage points from 13.8% in 2005 to 15.4% in 2006. The year over year decrease in our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue is largely a result of our increased revenue provided by base business yield, but is also due to the success of our cost control initiatives, which have focused on improving productivity and standardizing our practices, and the divestitures of under performing operations. Our selling, general and administrative expenses in 2006 increased by $112 million, and as a percentage of revenue increased by 0.6 percentage points to 10.4%. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses is due largely to higher bonus expense as a result of the significant improvement in the Companys performance, non capitalizable costs incurred to support the development of our revenue management system and a $20 million charge to record estimated unrecorded obligations associated with unclaimed property audits. 2007 Objectives In 2007, we will continue to pursue our goal of improving our profitability by focusing on revenue growth through pricing, eliminating our less profitable work, lowering our operating expenses, managing our selling, general and administrative expenses and generating strong and consistent cash flows that can be returned to our shareholders. Late in 2006, we began to see a decline in our revenue growth due to decreases in volumes. We believe that this decline can be attributed to our pricing strategy and an economic softening in certain lines of our business in certain parts of the country. Even when considering these volume declines, which may continue in 2007, we have seen that our focus on increasing revenue through yield and shedding our less profitable volumes has been positive for our 24 Table of Contents operating margins and our cash flows. As we consider the continuing effects of this approach on our business, we will continue to focus on our stated long term strategy of seeking operational excellence and improving profitability, divesting under performing and non strategic operations and seeking acquisition and investment candidates, such as landfill gas to energy projects, that we believe will offer superior margins and returns on capital. Basis of Presentation of Consolidated and Segment Financial Information Accounting Change On January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123(R)), which requires compensation expense to be recognized for all share based payments made to employees based on the fair value of the award at the date of grant. We adopted SFAS No. 123(R) using the modified prospective method, which results in (i) the recognition of compensation expense using the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) for all share based awards granted or modified after December 31, 2005 and (ii) the recognition of compensation expense using the provisions of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation (SFAS No. 123) for all unvested awards outstanding at the date of adoption. Through December 31, 2005, as permitted by SFAS No. 123, we accounted for equity based compensation in accordance with Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, as amended (APB No. 25). Under APB No. 25, we recognized compensation expense based on an awards intrinsic value. For stock options, which were the primary form of awards we granted through December 31, 2004, this meant that we recognized no compensation expense in connection with the grants, as the exercise price of the options was equal to the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant and all other provisions were fixed. As discussed below, beginning in 2005, restricted stock units and performance share units became the primary form of equity based compensation awarded under our long term incentive plans. For restricted stock units, intrinsic value is equal to the market value of our common stock on the date of grant. For performance share units, APB No. 25 required variable accounting, which resulted in the recognition of compensation expense based on the intrinsic value of each award at the end of each reporting period until such time that the number of shares to be issued and all other provisions are fixed. In December 2005, the Management Development and Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors approved the acceleration of the vesting of all unvested stock options awarded under our stock incentive plans, effective December 28, 2005. The decision to accelerate the vesting of outstanding stock options was made primarily to reduce the non cash compensation expense that we would have otherwise recorded in future periods as a result of adopting SFAS No. 123(R). We estimated that the acceleration eliminated approximately $55 million of cumulative pre tax compensation charges that would have been recognized during 2006, 2007 and 2008 as the stock options would have continued to vest. We recognized a $2 million pre tax charge to compensation expense during the fourth quarter of 2005 as a result of the acceleration, but do not expect to recognize future compensation expense for the accelerated options under SFAS No. 123(R). Additionally, as a result of changes in accounting required by SFAS No. 123(R) and a desire to design our long term incentive plans in a manner that creates a stronger link to operating and market performance, the Management Development and Compensation Committee approved a substantial change in the form of awards that we grant. Beginning in 2005, annual stock option grants were replaced with either (i) grants of restricted stock units and performance share units or (ii) an enhanced cash compensation award. Stock option grants in connection with new hires and promotions were replaced with grants of restricted stock units. The terms of restricted stock units and performance share units granted during 2006 are summarized in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As a result of the acceleration of the vesting of stock options and the replacement of future awards of stock options with other forms of equity awards, the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006 did not significantly affect our accounting for equity based compensation or net income for the year ended December 31, 2006. We do not currently expect this change in accounting to significantly impact our future results of operations. However, we do expect equity based compensation expense to increase over the next three years because of the incremental expense that will be recognized each year as additional awards are granted. Reconsideration of a Variable Interest During 2006, the debt of a previously consolidated variable interest entity was refinanced. As a result of the refinancing, our guarantee arrangement was also renegotiated, significantly reducing the value of our guarantee. We determined that the refinancing of the entitys debt obligations and 25 Table of Contents corresponding renegotiation of our guarantee represented significant changes in the entity that required reconsideration of the applicability of FIN 46(R). As a result of the reconsideration of our interest in this variable interest entity, we concluded that we are no longer the primary beneficiary of this entity. Accordingly, in April 2006, we deconsolidated the entity. The deconsolidation of this entity did not materially impact our Consolidated Financial Statements for the periods presented. Certain reclassifications have also been made in the accompanying financial statements to conform prior year information with the current period presentation. The supplementary financial information included in this section has been updated to reflect these changes. Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions In preparing our financial statements, we make several estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting for and recognition and disclosure of our assets, liabilities, stockholders equity, revenues and expenses. We must make these estimates and assumptions because certain information that we use is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or simply cannot be readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. In some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. In preparing our financial statements, the most difficult, subjective and complex estimates and the assumptions that deal with the greatest amount of uncertainty relate to our accounting for landfills, environmental remediation liabilities, asset impairments and self insurance reserves and recoveries, as described below. Actual results could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use in the preparation of our financial statements. Landfills The cost estimates for final capping, closure and post closure activities at landfills for which we have responsibility are estimated based on our interpretations of current requirements and proposed or anticipated regulatory changes. We also estimate additional costs, pursuant to the requirements of SFAS No. 143, based on the amount a third party would charge us to perform such activities even when we expect to perform these activities internally. We estimate the airspace to be consumed related to each final capping event and the timing of each final capping event and of closure and post closure activities. Because landfill final capping, closure and post closure obligations are measured at estimated fair value using present value techniques, changes in the estimated timing of future landfill final capping and closure and post closure activities would have an effect on these liabilities, related assets and results of operations. Landfill Costs We estimate the total cost to develop each of our landfill sites to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity. This estimate includes such costs as landfill liner material and installation, excavation for airspace, landfill leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems, environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, on site road construction and other capital infrastructure costs. Additionally, landfill development includes all land purchases for landfill footprint and required landfill buffer property. The projection of these landfill costs is dependent, in part, on future events. The remaining amortizable basis of each landfill includes costs to develop a site to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity and includes amounts previously expended and capitalized, net of accumulated airspace amortization, and projections of future purchase and development costs. Final Capping Costs We estimate the cost for each final capping event based on the area to be finally capped and the capping materials and activities required. The estimates also consider when these costs would actually be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. Our engineering personnel allocate final landfill capping costs to specific capping events. The landfill capacity associated with each final capping event is then quantified and the final capping costs for each event are amortized over the related capacity associated with the event as waste is disposed of at the landfill. We review these costs annually, or more often if significant facts change. Changes in estimates, such as timing or cost of construction, for final capping events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a final capping event that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization. 26 Table of Contents Closure and Post Closure Costs We base our estimates for closure and post closure costs on our interpretations of permit and regulatory requirements for closure and post closure maintenance and monitoring. The estimates for landfill closure and post closure costs also consider when the costs would actually be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. The possibility of changing legal and regulatory requirements and the forward looking nature of these types of costs make any estimation or assumption less certain. Changes in estimates for closure and post closure events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a landfill asset that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization. Remaining Permitted Airspace Our engineers, in consultation with third party engineering consultants and surveyors, are responsible for determining remaining permitted airspace at our landfills. The remaining permitted airspace is determined by an annual survey, which is then used to compare the existing landfill topography to the expected final landfill topography. Expansion Airspace We include currently unpermitted airspace in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace in certain circumstances. First, to include airspace associated with an expansion effort, we must generally expect the initial expansion permit application to be submitted within one year, and the final expansion permit to be received within five years. Second, we must believe the success of obtaining the expansion permit is likely, considering the following criteria: Personnel are actively working to obtain land use and local, state or provincial approvals for an expansion of an existing landfill; It is likely that the approvals will be received within the normal application and processing time periods for approvals in the jurisdiction in which the landfill is located; We have a legal right to use or obtain land to be included in the expansion plan; There are no significant known technical, legal, community, business, or political restrictions or similar issues that could impair the success of such expansion; Financial analysis has been completed, and the results demonstrate that the expansion has a positive financial and operational impact; and Airspace and related costs, including additional closure and post closure costs, have been estimated based on conceptual design. For unpermitted airspace to be initially included in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace, the expansion effort must meet all of the criteria listed above. These criteria are evaluated by our field based engineers, accountants, managers and others to identify potential obstacles to obtaining the permits. Once the unpermitted airspace is included, our policy provides that airspace may continue to be included in remaining permitted and expansion airspace even if these criteria are no longer met, based on the facts and circumstances of a specific landfill. In these circumstances, continued inclusion must be approved through a landfill specific review process that includes approval of the Chief Financial Officer and a review by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Of the 62 landfill sites with expansions at December 31, 2006, 14 landfills required the Chief Financial Officer to approve the inclusion of the unpermitted airspace. Eight of these landfills required approval by the Chief Financial Officer because of a lack of community or political support that could impede the expansion process. The remaining six landfills required approval mainly due to local zoning restrictions or because the permit application processes would not meet the one or five year requirements, generally due to state specific permitting procedures. Once the remaining permitted and expansion airspace is determined, an airspace utilization factor (AUF) is established to calculate the remaining permitted and expansion capacity in tons. The AUF is established using the measured density obtained from previous annual surveys and then adjusted to account for settlement. The amount of settlement that is forecasted will take into account several site specific factors including current and projected mix of waste type, initial and projected waste density, estimated number of years of life remaining, depth of underlying waste, and anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation of landfill leachate. In addition, the 27 Table of Contents initial selection of the AUF is subject to a subsequent multi level review by our engineering group. Our historical experience generally indicates that the impact of settlement at a landfill is greater later in the life of the landfill when the waste placed at the landfill approaches its highest point under the permit requirements. When we include the expansion airspace in our calculations of available airspace, we also include the projected costs for development, as well as the projected asset retirement cost related to final capping, and closure and post closure of the expansion in the amortization basis of the landfill. After determining the costs and remaining permitted and expansion capacity at each of our landfills, we determine the per ton rates that will be expensed through landfill amortization. We look at factors such as the waste stream, geography and rate of compaction, among others, to determine the number of tons necessary to fill the remaining permitted and expansion airspace relating to these costs and activities. We then divide costs by the corresponding number of tons, giving us the rate per ton to expense for each activity as waste is received and deposited at the landfill. We calculate per ton amortization rates for each landfill for assets associated with each final capping event, for assets related to closure and post closure activities and for all other costs capitalized or to be capitalized in the future. These rates per ton are updated annually, or more often, as significant facts change. It is possible that actual results, including the amount of costs incurred, the timing of final capping, closure and post closure activities, our airspace utilization or the success of our expansion efforts, could ultimately turn out to be significantly different from our estimates and assumptions. To the extent that such estimates, or related assumptions, prove to be significantly different than actual results, lower profitability may be experienced due to higher amortization rates, higher final capping, closure or post closure rates, or higher expenses; or higher profitability may result if the opposite occurs. Most significantly, if our belief that we will receive an expansion permit changes adversely and it is determined that the expansion capacity should no longer be considered in calculating the recoverability of the landfill asset, we may be required to recognize an asset impairment. If it is determined that the likelihood of receiving an expansion permit has become remote, the capitalized costs related to the expansion effort are expensed immediately. Environmental Remediation Liabilities We are subject to an array of laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Under current laws and regulations, we may have liabilities for environmental damage caused by our operations, or for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired a site. These liabilities include potentially responsible party (PRP) investigations, settlements, certain legal and consultant fees, as well as costs directly associated with site investigation and clean up, such as materials and incremental internal costs directly related to the remedy. We provide for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation and determine our estimated cost for the likely remedy based on several estimates and assumptions. We estimate costs required to remediate sites where it is probable that a liability has been incurred based on site specific facts and circumstances. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation, considering whether we were an owner, operator, transporter, or generator at the site, the amount and type of waste hauled to the site and the number of years we were associated with the site. Next, we review the same type of information with respect to other named and unnamed PRPs. Estimates of the cost for the likely remedy are then either developed using our internal resources or by third party environmental engineers or other service providers. Internally developed estimates are based on: Managements judgment and experience in remediating our own and unrelated parties sites; Information available from regulatory agencies as to costs of remediation; The number, financial resources and relative degree of responsibility of other PRPs who may be liable for remediation of a specific site; and The typical allocation of costs among PRPs. Asset Impairments Our long lived assets, including landfills and landfill expansions, are carried on our financial statements based on their cost less accumulated depreciation or amortization. However, accounting standards require us to write down assets or groups of assets if they become impaired. If significant events or 28 Table of Contents changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable, we perform a test of recoverability by comparing the carrying value of the asset or asset group to its undiscounted expected future cash flows. If cash flows cannot be separately and independently identified for a single asset, we will determine whether an impairment has occurred for the group of assets for which we can identify the projected cash flows. If the carrying values are in excess of undiscounted expected future cash flows, we measure any impairment by comparing the fair value of the asset or asset group to its carrying value. Fair value is determined by either an internally developed discounted projected cash flow analysis of the asset or asset group or an actual third party valuation. If the fair value of an asset or asset group is determined to be less than the carrying amount of the asset or asset group, an impairment in the amount of the difference is recorded in the period that the impairment indicator occurs. Typical indicators that an asset may be impaired include: A significant decrease in the market price of an asset or asset group; A significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset or asset group is being used or in its physical condition; A significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of an asset or asset group, including an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; An accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the acquisition or construction of a long lived asset; Current period operating or cash flow losses combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with the use of a long lived asset or asset group; or A current expectation that, more likely than not, a long lived asset or asset group will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. If any of these or other indicators occur, the asset is reviewed to determine whether there has been an impairment. Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment and projections may vary from cash flows eventually realized. There are other considerations for impairments of landfills and goodwill, as described below. Landfills Certain of the indicators listed above require significant judgment and understanding of the waste industry when applied to landfill development or expansion projects. For example, a regulator may initially deny a landfill expansion permit application though the expansion permit is ultimately granted. In addition, management may periodically divert waste from one landfill to another to conserve remaining permitted landfill airspace. Therefore, certain events could occur in the ordinary course of business and not necessarily be considered indicators of impairment of our landfill assets due to the unique nature of the waste industry. Goodwill At least annually, we assess whether goodwill is impaired. We assess whether an impairment exists by comparing the book value of goodwill to its implied fair value. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined by deducting the fair value of each of our reporting units (Groups) identifiable assets and liabilities from the fair value of the reporting unit as a whole, as if that reporting unit had just been acquired and the purchase price were being initially allocated. Additional impairment assessments may be performed on an interim basis if we encounter events or changes in circumstances, such as those listed above, that would indicate that, more likely than not, the book value of goodwill has been impaired. Self insurance reserves and recoveries We have retained a portion of the risks related to our health and welfare, automobile, general liability and workers compensation insurance programs. Our liabilities associated with the exposure for unpaid claims and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported losses, generally is estimated with the assistance of external actuaries and by factoring in pending claims and historical trends and data. Our estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly different than our ultimate obligations if variables such as the frequency or severity of future incidents are significantly different than what we assume. Estimated insurance recoveries related to recorded liabilities are recorded as assets when we believe that the receipt of such amounts is probable. 29 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents, for the periods indicated, the period to period change in dollars (in millions) and percentages for the respective Consolidated Statement of Operations line items: Period to Period Change Years Ended Years Ended December 31, December 31, 2006 vs. 2005 2005 vs. 2004 Operating revenues $ 289 2.2 % $ 558 4.5 % Costs and expenses: Operating (44 ) (0.5 ) 403 4.9 Selling, general and administrative 112 8.8 9 0.7 Depreciation and amortization (27 ) (2.0 ) 25 1.9 Restructuring (28 ) * 29 * (Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items (43 ) * 81 * (30 ) (0.3 ) 547 5.1 Income from operations 319 18.7 11 0.6 Other income (expense): Interest expense, net (11 ) 2.4 (80 ) 20.8 Equity in net losses of unconsolidated entities 71 * (9 ) 9.2 Minority interest 4 (8.3 ) (12 ) 33.3 Other, net (1 ) * 4 * 63 (10.2 ) (97 ) 18.6 Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 382 35.0 (86 ) (7.3 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 415 * (337 ) * Income before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle $ (33 ) (2.8 )% $ 251 27.0 % * Percentage change does not provide a meaningful comparison. Refer to the explanations of these items included herein for a discussion of the relationship between current year and prior year activity. 30 Table of Contents The following table presents, for the periods indicated, the percentage relationship that the respective Consolidated Statement of Operations line items has to operating revenues: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Operating revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Costs and expenses: Operating 64.3 66.0 65.7 Selling, general and administrative 10.4 9.8 10.1 Depreciation and amortization 10.0 10.4 10.7 Restructuring 0.2 (Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items 0.1 0.5 (0.1 ) 84.8 86.9 86.4 Income from operations 15.2 13.1 13.6 Other income (expense): Interest expense, net (3.6 ) (3.6 ) (3.1 ) Equity in net losses of unconsolidated entities (0.3 ) (0.8 ) (0.8 ) Minority interest (0.3 ) (0.4 ) (0.3 ) Other, net (4.2 ) (4.8 ) (4.2 ) Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 11.0 8.3 9.4 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 2.4 (0.7 ) 2.0 Income before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 8.6 % 9.0 % 7.4 % Operating Revenues Our operating revenues in 2006 were $13.4 billion, compared with $13.1 billion in 2005 and $12.5 billion in 2004. We manage and evaluate our operations primarily through our Eastern, Midwest, Southern, Western, Wheelabrator (which includes our waste to energy facilities and independent power production plants, or IPPs) and Recycling Groups. These six operating Groups are our reportable segments. Shown below (in millions) is the contribution to revenues during each year provided by our six operating Groups and our Other waste services: Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Eastern $ 3,830 $ 3,809 $ 3,744 Midwest 3,112 3,054 2,971 Southern 3,759 3,590 3,480 Western 3,160 3,079 2,884 Wheelabrator 902 879 835 Recycling 766 833 745 Other 283 296 261 Intercompany (2,449 ) (2,466 ) (2,404 ) Total $ 13,363 $ 13,074 $ 12,516 Our operating revenues generally come from fees charged for our collection, disposal, transfer, Wheelabrator and recycling services. Some of the fees we charge to our customers for collection services are billed in advance; a 31 Table of Contents liability for future service is recorded when we bill the customer and operating revenues are recognized as services are actually provided. Revenues from our disposal operations consist of tipping fees, which are generally based on the weight, volume and type of waste being disposed of at our disposal facilities and are normally billed monthly or semi monthly. Fees charged at transfer stations are generally based on the volume of waste deposited, taking into account our cost of loading, transporting and disposing of the solid waste at a disposal site, and are normally billed monthly. Our Wheelabrator revenues are based on the type and volume of waste received at our waste to energy facilities and IPPs and fees charged for the sale of energy and steam. Recycling revenue, which is generated by our Recycling Group as well as our four geographic operating Groups, generally consists of the sale of recyclable commodities to third parties and tipping fees. Intercompany revenues between our operations have been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. The mix of operating revenues from our different services is reflected in the table below (in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Collection $ 8,837 $ 8,633 $ 8,318 Landfill 3,197 3,089 3,004 Transfer 1,802 1,756 1,680 Wheelabrator 902 879 835 Recycling and other 1,074 1,183 1,083 Intercompany (2,449 ) (2,466 ) (2,404 ) Total $ 13,363 $ 13,074 $ 12,516 The following table provides details associated with the period to period change in revenues (dollars in millions) along with an explanation of the significant components of the current period changes: Period to Period Period to Period Change for Change for 2006 vs. 2005 2005 vs. 2004 Average yield: Base business $ 461 3.6 % $ 336 2.7 % Commodity (48 ) (0.4 ) (38 ) (0.3 ) Electricity (IPPs) 2 4 Fuel surcharges and fees 120 0.9 161 1.3 Total 535 4.1 463 3.7 Volume (187 ) (1.4 ) 3 Internal revenue growth 348 2.7 466 3.7 Acquisitions 52 0.4 112 0.9 Divestitures (154 ) (1.2 ) (62 ) (0.4 ) Foreign currency translation 43 0.3 42 0.3 $ 289 2.2 % $ 558 4.5 % Base Business Revenue growth from yield on base business reflects the effect on our revenue from the pricing activities of our collection, transfer, disposal and waste to energy operations, exclusive of volume changes. Our revenue growth from base business yield includes not only price increases, but also (i) price decreases to retain customers; (ii) changes in average price from new and lost business; and (iii) certain average price changes related to the overall mix of services, which are due to both the types of services provided and the geographic locations where our services are provided. Our pricing excellence initiative continues to be the primary contributor to internal revenue growth. In both 2005 and 2006, revenue growth from base business yield was primarily attributable to our collection operations, where we experienced substantial revenue growth in every geographic operating Group. Our base 32 Table of Contents business yield improvement resulted largely from our focus on pricing our business based on market specific factors, including our costs. As discussed below, the significant collection revenue increases due to yield have been partially offset by revenue declines from lower collection volumes. In assessing the impact of higher collection yield on our volumes, we continue to find that, in spite of collection volume declines, revenue growth from base business yield and a focus on controlling variable costs are providing notable earnings, margin and cash flow improvements. Throughout 2006, increases in revenue due to yield on base business at our transfer stations and for our construction and demolition and municipal solid waste streams at our landfills were also noteworthy. These improvements were due to the practices implemented as a result of our findings from our pricing studies. The increases in transfer station revenues in 2006 were the most significant in the Eastern and Western portions of the United States. At our landfills, construction and demolition revenue growth from yield was the most significant in the West and South and municipal solid waste revenue growth from yield was provided by the East, South and Midwest. In 2005, our transfer business in the East and municipal solid waste landfill disposal operations in the South provided the most significant revenue growth from base business yield in those lines of our business. We also experienced substantial yield contributions to revenues from our waste to energy facilities in the second half of 2005 and through the third quarter of 2006. The revenue improvements at our waste to energy facilities were largely due to significant increases in the rates charged for electricity under our long term contracts with electric utilities, which generally are indexed to natural gas prices. Our environmental cost recovery fee, which is included in base business yield, increased revenues on a year over year basis by $43 million in 2006 and $33 million in 2005. Other fee programs, which were targeted at recovering the costs we incur for services that are included in base business yield, such as fees for the collection of past due balances, also contributed to yield improvement in 2006. The 2005 revenue improvements attributable to yield discussed above were partially offset by a general decline in yield in special waste landfill disposal operations, noted principally in our Midwest and Southern Groups. Commodity Our revenues in both 2005 and 2006 declined as compared with the prior year due to price decreases in recycling commodities. Average prices for old corrugated cardboard dropped by 8% in both 2005 and 2006, from $85 per ton in 2004 to $78 per ton in 2005 and to $72 per ton in 2006. Average prices for old newsprint were also down by about 3% in 2005 and 7% in 2006, from $86 per ton in 2004 to $83 per ton in 2005 and to $77 per ton in 2006. A significant portion of revenues attributable to commodities is rebated to our suppliers of recyclable materials. Accordingly, changes in our revenues due to fluctuations in commodity prices have a corresponding impact on our cost of goods sold. Fuel surcharges and fees Fuel surcharges increased revenues year over year by $117 million for 2006 and $157 million for 2005. These increases are due to our continued effort to pass on higher fuel costs to our customers through fuel surcharges. The substantial increases in revenue provided by our fuel surcharge program can generally be attributed to (i) increases in market prices for fuel; (ii) an increase in the number of customers who participate in our fuel surcharge program; and (iii) the revision of our fuel surcharge program at the beginning of the third quarter of 2005 to incorporate the indirect fuel cost increases passed on to us by subcontracted haulers and vendors. Increases in our operating expenses due to higher diesel fuel prices include our direct fuel costs for our operations, which are included in Operating Expenses Fuel, as well as estimated indirect fuel costs, which are included primarily in Operating Expenses Subcontractor Costs. As discussed in the Operating Expenses section below, during 2006 our fuel surcharge program recovered both components of our higher costs. Our fuel surcharge program substantially recovered these costs for the year ended December 31, 2005. The mandated fees included in this line item are primarily related to the pass through of fees and taxes assessed by various state, county and municipal governmental agencies at our landfills and transfer stations. These mandated fees have not had a significant impact on the comparability of revenues for the periods included in the table above. Volume Declines in revenue due to lower volumes between 2006 and 2005 were driven by decreases in our collection volumes, due primarily to our focus on improving the margins in this line of business through pricing. 33 Table of Contents These revenue declines were the most significant in our residential and industrial collection operations, with our Eastern, Southern and Midwestern Groups experiencing the most notable decreases. Our commercial collection operations also had declines in revenue due to lower volumes in 2006, principally in the Midwestern and Eastern Groups. The decline in revenue due to lower volumes for our collection operations was also due to a decrease in hurricane related revenues in the South. The revenue declines in our collection businesses in 2006 were partially offset by increased disposal volumes in all of our geographic regions through the first nine months of the year. Our special waste, municipal solid waste and construction and demolition waste streams were the primary drivers of this growth in revenues due to higher volumes. We believe that the strength of the economy throughout most of the year and favorable weather in many parts of the country were the primary drivers of the higher disposal volumes. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we experienced a decline in disposal volumes as compared with the fourth quarter of 2005, which we believe is due to the lack of hurricane volumes in 2006, competition, impacts of our pricing initiatives and an economic softening in certain lines of our business in certain parts of the country. Also contributing to the decline in our revenues due to lower volumes for 2006 were (i) the completion of the construction of an integrated waste facility on behalf of a municipality in Canada in early 2006; (ii) the deconsolidation of a variable interest entity during the second quarter of 2006; and (iii) decreased volumes from our transfer station and recycling operations. Revenues due to changes in volumes were relatively flat when comparing 2005 with 2004. This was generally because of the combined impacts of (i) a decline in revenues associated with hurricanes; (ii) increases in recycling and landfill disposal volumes; and (iii) lower revenue from residential, commercial and industrial collection volumes, particularly in the East and Midwest, which can generally be attributed to our focus on improving our margins by increasing yield. Our revenue due to volumes generated from hurricane related services were $56 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared with $115 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The $59 million decline was partially due to the temporary suspension of certain of our operations in the Gulf Coast region during 2005 as a result of the severe destruction caused by Hurricane Katrina. In addition, much of our 2004 hurricane related revenues was associated with subcontracted services, which generated comparatively lower margins. In 2005, we generally elected not to undertake hurricane related projects for which we could not support the required services with internal resources. When excluding the impacts of the hurricanes, revenue due to higher volumes increased $62 million, or 0.5% during 2005. This increase was largely due to (i) increased recycling volumes provided by several brokerage contracts; (ii) increased landfill disposal volumes in the Midwest, West and South; (iii) increased transfer station volumes in the West and the South; and (iv) increased residential collection volumes in the West. Also included as a component of revenue growth from volumes in 2005 was revenue generated from our construction of an integrated waste facility on behalf of a municipality in Canada. The revenue generated by this project was low margin and largely offset by a corresponding increase in cost of goods sold. These revenue increases were largely offset by volume declines experienced in each line of business in the Eastern portion of the United States and significant volume declines in our collection business in the Midwest. Acquisitions and divestitures The net impact of acquisitions and divestitures on our revenues was a decrease of $102 million in 2006 and an increase of $50 million in 2005. The significant change in these impacts is a result of our divestiture plan, which was initiated in the third quarter of 2005. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses include (i) labor and related benefits (excluding labor costs associated with maintenance and repairs included below), which include salaries and wages, bonuses, related payroll taxes, insurance and benefits costs and the costs associated with contract labor; (ii) transfer and disposal costs, which include tipping fees paid to third party disposal facilities and transfer stations; (iii) maintenance and repairs relating to equipment, vehicles and facilities and related labor costs; (iv) subcontractor costs, which include the costs of independent haulers who transport our waste to disposal facilities and are driven by transportation costs such as fuel prices; 34 Table of Contents (v) costs of goods sold, which are primarily the rebates paid to suppliers associated with recycling commodities; (vi) fuel costs, which represent the costs of fuel and oil to operate our truck fleet and landfill operating equipment; (vii) disposal and franchise fees and taxes, which include landfill taxes, municipal franchise fees, host community fees and royalties; (viii) landfill operating costs, which include landfill remediation costs, leachate and methane collection and treatment, other landfill site costs and interest accretion on asset retirement obligations; (ix) risk management costs, which include workers compensation and insurance and claim costs and (x) other operating costs, which include, among other costs, equipment and facility rent and property taxes. The following table summarizes the major components of our operating expenses, including the impact of foreign currency translation, for the years ended December 31 (in millions): Period to Period to 2006 Period Change 2005 Period Change 2004 Labor and related benefits $ 2,479 $ 8 0.3 % $ 2,471 $ 84 3.5 % $ 2,387 Transfer and disposal costs 1,248 (22 ) (1.7 ) 1,270 (19 ) (1.5 ) 1,289 Maintenance and repairs 1,137 2 0.2 1,135 35 3.2 1,100 Subcontractor costs 971 34 3.6 937 26 2.9 911 Cost of goods sold 589 (56 ) (8.7 ) 645 49 8.2 596 Fuel 579 47 8.8 532 131 32.7 401 Disposal and franchise fees and taxes 641 (1 ) (0.2 ) 642 22 3.5 620 Landfill operating costs 238 5 2.1 233 14 6.4 219 Risk management 291 (21 ) (6.7 ) 312 (7 ) (2.2 ) 319 Other 414 (40 ) (8.8 ) 454 68 17.6 386 $ 8,587 $ (44 ) (0.5 )% $ 8,631 $ 403 4.9 % $ 8,228 Our operating expense margin improved 1.7 percentage points, from 66.0% in 2005 to 64.3% in 2006. This improvement can be attributed to the fact that we experienced increased revenues while controlling our total operating costs. Our ability to manage operating costs demonstrates progress on our operational excellence initiatives such as improving productivity, reducing fleet maintenance costs, standardizing operating practices and improving safety. In addition, our operating expenses have declined when comparing 2006 with 2005 due in part to divestitures and reduced volumes. Divestitures and reduced volumes have contributed to reduced costs or have offset other cost increases in every category throughout 2006. The impact of our cost control initiatives, divestitures, volumes and other significant factors on the comparability of costs incurred for each operating expense category in 2006, 2005 and 2004 are summarized below. Labor and related benefits When comparing 2006 with 2005, these costs have increased due to annual merit increases and higher bonus expense due to the overall improvement in our performance on a year over year basis. These cost increases were partially offset by (i) declines in health and welfare insurance expenses, due to our focus on controlling costs and reductions in operations personnel as a result of divestitures; (ii) reduced overtime generally associated with our reduced volumes; and (iii) reduced headcount due to divestitures and our focus on operating efficiencies. In 2005, the year over year increase in costs was generally due to higher salary and wage costs, general increases in health care and benefits costs, increased costs attributable to contract labor and increased payroll taxes. Transfer and disposal costs In 2006 and 2005 the costs incurred by our collection operations to dispose of waste at third party transfer stations or landfills declined due to our focus on improving internalization. During 2006, declines in these costs are also attributable to the impact of divestitures and general volume declines. Maintenance and repairs In 2006, these costs were relatively flat due to the offsetting impacts of increases in labor costs and decreases driven by (i) changes in the scope of maintenance projects at our waste to energy facilities; (ii) the impact of divestitures and (iii) various fleet initiatives, all of which have favorably affected our maintenance, parts and supplies costs. The increases in these costs in 2005 were attributable to (i) higher parts and supplies costs, which were driven by changes in the scope of maintenance projects at our waste to energy facilities 35 Table of Contents and increased volumes in our Southern and Western Groups; (ii) increases in the cost of lubes and oils and (iii) increases in the labor costs associated with our maintenance and repairs. Subcontractor costs Throughout 2006 and 2005 we experienced increases in subcontractor costs due to higher diesel fuel prices, which drive the fuel surcharges we pay to third party subcontractors. Subcontractor cost increases attributable to higher fuel costs were offset by the revenue generated from our fuel surcharge program, which is reflected as fuel yield increases within Operating Revenues. Additionally, in 2006, the increase in our subcontractor costs due to higher fuel costs was partially offset by a decrease attributable to our divestiture of under performing and non strategic operations and decreases in volumes. In 2005, we also incurred additional transportation costs due to increased volumes in subcontracted work, particularly in our National Accounts organization and our Western Group. This cost increase was partially offset by a year over year decline in the utilization of subcontractors to assist in providing hurricane related services, which were particularly significant during 2004. Cost of goods sold These costs are primarily for rebates paid to our recycling suppliers, which are driven by the market prices of recyclable commodities. In 2006, we experienced lower market prices for recyclable commodities and reduced recycling volumes. Additionally, in 2006, the decrease in costs of goods sold was partially due to completion of the construction of an integrated waste facility in Canada in early 2006. The increase in cost of goods sold in 2005 was partially due to costs incurred to construct this integrated waste facility. Also in 2005, we experienced lower market prices for recyclable commodities than in prior years. This decrease in pricing was more than offset by increased recycling volumes in 2005 due to several new brokerage contracts and acquisitions. Fuel We experienced an estimated average increase of $0.31 per gallon for 2006 as compared with 2005 and of $0.59 per gallon for 2005 as compared with 2004. While our fuel surcharge is designed to recover the cost increases incurred as a result of higher fuel prices, increased fuel costs continue to negatively affect our operating margin percentages. Revenues generated by our fuel surcharge program are reflected as fuel yield increases within Operating Revenues. Disposal and franchise fees and taxes In 2006, these costs have remained relatively flat primarily as a result of decreases associated with divestitures and general volume declines, partially offset by increases in rates for mandated fees and taxes in certain markets. In 2005, these cost increases were the result of increased volumes and increased rates for mandated fees and taxes. Certain of these cost increases are passed through to our customers, and have been reflected as fee yield increases within Operating Revenues. Landfill operating costs For 2006 and 2005, these cost increases have generally been related to higher site maintenance, leachate collection, monitoring and testing, and closure and post closure expenses. Risk management Over the last two years, we have been increasingly successful in reducing these costs largely due to reduced workers compensation costs, which can be attributed to our continued focus on safety and reduced accident and injury rates. Other operating expenses The lower costs in 2006 as compared with 2005 can be attributed to (i) Hurricane Katrina related support costs in 2005, particularly in Louisiana, where we built Camp Waste Management to house and feed hundreds of our employees who worked in the New Orleans area to help with the cleanup efforts; (ii) higher rental expense in 2005; and (iii) a decrease related to the deconsolidation of a variable interest entity in early 2006. In addition to the 2005 items noted above, the increase in our other operating costs when comparing 2005 with 2004 can be attributed to (i) a year over year decrease in the realization of gains on sales of assets; (ii) costs incurred during 2005 attributable to labor strikes in New Jersey and Canada; and (iii) an increase in costs generated by the variable interest entity discussed above. 36 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist of (i) labor costs, which include salaries, bonuses, related insurance and benefits, contract labor, payroll taxes and equity based compensation; (ii) professional fees, which include fees for consulting, legal, audit and tax services; (iii) provision for bad debts, which includes allowances for uncollectible customer accounts and collection fees; and (iv) other general and administrative expenses, which include, among other costs, facility related expenses, voice and data telecommunications, advertising, travel and entertainment, rentals, postage and printing. The following table summarizes the major components of our selling, general and administrative costs for the years ended December 31 (in millions): Period to Period to 2006 Period Change 2005 Period Change 2004 Labor and related benefits $ 794 $ 37 4.9 % $ 757 $ 16 2.2 % $ 741 Professional fees 161 9 5.9 152 (17 ) (10.1 ) 169 Provision for bad debts 49 (3 ) (5.8 ) 52 4 8.3 48 Other 384 69 21.9 315 6 1.9 309 $ 1,388 $ 112 8.8 % $ 1,276 $ 9 0.7 % $ 1,267 Our professional fees and, to a lesser extent, our labor costs and other general and administrative costs, for the year ended December 31, 2006 were increased by $20 million for non capitalizable costs incurred to support the planned implementation of our new revenue management system. This increase and other significant changes in our selling, general and administrative expenses are summarized below. Labor and related benefits In both 2006 and 2005, these costs increased year over year due to higher bonus expense attributable to the overall improvement in our performance and higher non cash compensation costs associated with the equity based compensation provided for by our long term incentive plan. Also contributing to the increase in labor costs in 2006 and 2005 are higher salaries and hourly wages driven by annual merit raises and an increase in the size of our sales force. These increases were partially offset by savings associated with our 2005 restructuring. Fluctuations in our use of contract labor for corporate support functions caused an increase in 2006 and a decline in 2005 as compared with the prior year periods. Professional Fees In 2006, our professional fees were higher than in 2005 due to higher consulting fees associated with our pricing initiatives and the development of our revenue management system. However, the overall increase in consulting fees in 2006 was partially offset by costs incurred during 2005 for computer support costs related to a revenue management project for our Recycling Group. In 2005, we experienced a decline in professional fees as compared with the prior year as a result of lower litigation and defense costs and lower consulting costs associated with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act as we moved from the implementation phase in 2004 to continued monitoring and testing in 2005. Other We are currently undergoing unclaimed property audits, which are being conducted by various state authorities. The property subject to review in this audit process generally includes unclaimed wages, vendor payments and customer refunds. During 2006, we submitted unclaimed property filings with all states. As a result of our findings, we determined that we had unrecorded obligations associated with unclaimed property for escheatable items for various periods between 1980 and 2004. The increase in our expenses includes a $20 million charge to record these estimated unrecorded obligations. Refer to Note 10 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the nature of this charge. Additionally, in both 2006 and 2005, our other costs increased due to higher sales and marketing costs associated with our national advertising campaign and higher travel and entertainment costs due partially to the development of our revenue management system and our efforts to implement various initiatives. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization includes (i) depreciation of property and equipment, including assets recorded due to capital leases, on a straight line basis from three to 50 years; (ii) amortization of landfill costs, including 37 Table of Contents those incurred and all estimated future costs for landfill development, construction, closure and post closure, on a units of consumption method as landfill airspace is consumed over the remaining permitted and expansion capacity of a site; (iii) amortization of landfill asset retirement costs arising from final capping obligations on a units of consumption method as airspace is consumed over the estimated capacity associated with each final capping event; and (iv) amortization of intangible assets with a definite life, either using a 150% declining balance approach or a straight line basis over the definitive terms of the related agreements, which are from two to ten years depending on the type of asset. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased by $27 million during 2006 when compared with 2005. The decrease was due in part to the suspension of depreciation on assets held for sale, divestitures and the discontinuation of depreciation on enterprise wide software that is now fully depreciated. The comparability of our depreciation and amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 has also been significantly affected by (i) a $21 million charge to landfill amortization recognized in 2005 to adjust the amortization periods of nine of our leased landfills and (ii) adjustments to landfill airspace and landfill asset retirement cost amortization recorded in each year for changes in estimates related to our final capping, closure and post closure obligations. During the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, landfill amortization expense was reduced by $1 million, $13 million and $18 million, respectively, for the effects of these changes in estimate. In each year, the majority of the reduced expense resulting from the revised estimates was associated with final capping changes. Restructuring Management continuously reviews our organization to determine if we are operating under the most advantageous structure. These reviews have highlighted efficiencies and cost savings we could capture by restructuring. The most significant cost savings we have obtained through our restructurings have been attributable to the labor and related benefits component of our Selling, general and administrative expenses. During the third quarter of 2005, we reorganized and simplified our organizational structure by eliminating certain support functions performed at the Group or Corporate office. We also eliminated the Canadian Group office, which reduced the number of our operating Groups from seven to six. This reorganization has reduced costs at the Group and Corporate offices and increased the accountability of our Market Areas. We recorded $28 million of pre tax charges for costs associated with the implementation of the new structure, principally for employee severance and benefit costs. (Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments and Unusual Items The following table summarizes the major components of (Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items for the year ended December 31 for the respective periods (in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Asset impairments $ 42 $ 116 $ 17 (Income) expense from divestitures (44 ) (79 ) (12 ) Other 27 31 (18 ) $ 25 $ 68 $ (13 ) Year Ended December 31, 2006 Asset impairments During the second and third quarters of 2006, we recorded impairment charges of $13 million and $5 million, respectively, for operations we intend to sell as part of our divestiture program. The charges were required to reduce the carrying values of the operations to their estimated fair values less the cost to sell in accordance with the guidance provided by SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, for assets to be disposed of by sale. 38 Table of Contents During the third and fourth quarters of 2006, we recorded impairment charges of $10 million and $14 million, respectively, for assets and businesses associated with our continuing operations. The charges recognized during the third quarter of 2006 were related to operations in our Recycling and Southern Groups. The charges recognized during the fourth quarter of 2006 were primarily attributable to the impairment of a landfill in our Eastern Group as a result of a change in our expectations for future expansions. (Income) expense from divestitures We recognized $44 million of net gains on divestitures during the year ended December 31, 2006, which were direct results of the execution of our plan to review under performing or non strategic operations and to either improve their performance or dispose of the operations. The majority of these net gains was recognized during the second quarter of 2006 and relates to operations located in our Western Group. Total proceeds from divestitures completed during the year ended December 31, 2006 were $184 million, all of which were received in cash. Other During the fourth quarter of 2006, we recognized a charge of approximately $26 million for the impact of an arbitration ruling against us related to the termination of a joint venture relationship in 2000. The party that purchased our interest in the joint venture had sued us, seeking a variety of remedies ranging from monetary damages to unwinding the sale of assets. In the fourth quarter of 2006, the arbitration tribunal ruled in the other partys favor, awarding them approximately $29 million, which includes monetary damages, interest, and certain fees and expenses. Prior to the ruling, the Company had recorded a reserve of $3 million. For additional information regarding this matter refer to Note 10 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Asset impairments During the second quarter of 2005, our Eastern Group recorded a $35 million charge for the impairment of the Pottstown Landfill located in West Pottsgrove Township, Pennsylvania. We determined that an impairment was necessary after the Pennsylvania Environmental Hearing Board upheld a denial by the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection of a permit application for a vertical expansion at the landfill. After the denial was upheld, the Company reviewed the options available at the Pottstown Landfill and the likelihood of the possible outcomes of those options. After such evaluation and considering the length of time required for the appeal process and the permit application review, we decided not to pursue an appeal of the permit denial. This decision was primarily due to the expected impact of the permitting delays, which would hinder our ability to fully utilize the expansion airspace before the landfills required closure in 2010. We continued to operate the Pottstown Landfill using existing permitted airspace through the landfills permit expiration date of October 2005. Through June 30, 2005, our Property and equipment had included approximately $80 million of accumulated costs associated with a revenue management system. Approximately $59 million of these costs were specifically associated with the purchase of the software along with efforts required to develop and configure that software for our use, while the remaining costs were associated with the general efforts of integrating a revenue management system with our existing applications and hardware. The development efforts associated with our revenue management system were suspended in 2003. Since that time, there have been changes in the viable software alternatives available to address our current needs. During the third quarter of 2005, we concluded our assessment of potential revenue management system options. As a result, we entered into agreements with a new software vendor for the license, implementation and maintenance of certain of its applications software, including waste and recycling functionality. We believe that these newly licensed applications, when fully implemented, will provide substantially better capabilities and functionality than the software we were developing. Our plan to implement this newly licensed software resulted in a $59 million charge in the third quarter of 2005 for the software that had been under development and capitalized costs associated with the development efforts specific to that software. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we recognized an $18 million charge for asset impairments. This charge was primarily attributable to the impairment of a landfill in our Eastern Group, as a result of a change in our expectations for future expansions, and the impairment of capitalized software costs related to two applications we decided not to develop further. 39 Table of Contents (Income) expense from divestitures During the first quarter of 2005, we recognized a $39 million gain as a result of the divestiture of a landfill in Ontario, Canada, which was required as a result of a Divestiture Order from the Canadian Competition Bureau. During the remainder of 2005, we recognized a total of $40 million in gains as a result of the divestiture of operations. With the exception of our divestiture of the Ontario, Canada landfill, our divestitures during 2005 were direct results of the execution of our plan to review under performing or non strategic operations and to either improve their performance or dispose of the operations. Total proceeds from divestitures completed during the year ended December 31, 2005 were $172 million, of which $140 million was received in cash, $23 million was in the form of a note receivable and $9 million was in the form of non monetary assets. Other In the first quarter of 2005, we recognized a charge of approximately $16 million for the impact of a litigation settlement reached with a group of stockholders that opted not to participate in the settlement of the securities class action lawsuit against us related to 1998 and 1999 activity. During the third quarter of 2005, we settled our ongoing defense costs and possible indemnity obligations for four former officers of WM Holdings related to legacy litigation brought against them by the SEC. As a result, we recorded a $26.8 million charge for the funding of the court ordered distribution of $27.5 million to our shareholders in settlement of the legacy litigation against the former officers. These charges were partially offset by the recognition of a $12 million net benefit recorded during the year ended December 31, 2005, which was primarily for adjustments to our receivables and estimated obligations for non solid waste operations divested in 1999 and 2000. Year Ended December 31, 2004 For 2004, the significant items included within (Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items were (i) $17 million in impairment losses primarily due to the impairment of certain landfill assets and software development costs; (ii) $12 million in gains on divestitures that primarily related to certain Port O Let operations; and (iii) $18 million in miscellaneous net gains, which were primarily for adjustments to our estimated obligations associated with non solid waste services, which were divested in 1999 and 2000. Income From Operations by Reportable Segment The following table summarizes income from operations by reportable segment for the years ended December 31 (in millions): Period to Period to 2006 Period Change 2005 Period Change 2004 Eastern $ 417 $ 56 15.5 % $ 361 $ 3 0.8 % $ 358 Midwest 484 58 13.6 426 40 10.4 386 Southern 804 105 15.0 699 34 5.1 665 Western 561 90 19.1 471 56 13.5 415 Wheelabrator 315 10 3.3 305 22 7.8 283 Recycling 16 1 6.7 15 (10 ) (40.0 ) 25 Other (23 ) (26 ) * 3 15 * (12 ) Corporate and other (545 ) 25 (4.4 ) (570 ) (149 ) 35.4 (421 ) Total $ 2,029 $ 319 18.7 % $ 1,710 $ 11 0.6 % $ 1,699 * Percentage change does not provide a meaningful comparison. Overview Revenue growth from base business yield improvement, which is primarily the result of our continued focus on pricing, significantly contributed to the operating income of each of our geographic Groups during the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. Base business yield provided revenue growth for each line of business in 2006, but was driven primarily by our collection operations, where we experienced substantial revenue growth in every geographic operating Group for the second consecutive year. The operating results of the Groups have also benefited from our focus on cost control and from increases in higher margin disposal volumes during 40 Table of Contents both 2005 and 2006. These improvements were partially offset by declines in revenues due to lower volumes in the collection line of business, particularly in our Eastern Group. See the additional discussion in the Operating Revenues section above. The operating results for the year ended December 31, 2006 also compare favorably with the prior years due to the $27 million restructuring charge recognized during the third quarter of 2005. Corporate and other reflects $10 million of this impact with the remaining $17 million allocated across the operating Groups. See additional discussion of these charges in the Restructuring section above. Other significant items affecting the comparability of the operating segments results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 are summarized below: Eastern The Groups operating income for the year ended December 31, 2006 was negatively affected by $26 million in charges associated with (i) the impairment of businesses being sold as part of our divestiture program and (ii) the impairment of a landfill. The year ended December 31, 2005 was negatively affected by the recognition of $44 million in impairment charges related primarily to the Pottstown landfill. Finally, the operating results of our Eastern Group for 2006 and 2005 were negatively affected by costs incurred in connection with labor strikes. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we incurred $14 million of costs related primarily to a strike in the New York City area. The Group incurred similar costs during the first quarter of 2005 for a labor strike in New Jersey, which decreased operating income for the year ended December 31, 2005 by approximately $9 million. Midwest Positively affecting 2005 results compared with the prior year was a decline in landfill amortization expense generally as a result of changes in certain estimates related to our final capping, closure and post closure obligations. Southern During 2005, several large non recurring type items were recognized, impacting comparisons to the other periods presented. These items include $13 million of pre tax gains recognized on the divestiture of operations during 2005 and declines in earnings related to (i) hurricanes, largely due to the temporary suspension of operations in the areas affected by Hurricane Katrina; (ii) the effects of higher landfill amortization costs, generally due to reductions in landfill amortization periods to align the lives of the landfills for amortization purposes with the terms of the underlying contractual agreements supporting their operations; and (iii) higher landfill amortization expense as a result of changes in certain estimates related to our final capping, closure and post closure obligations. Western Gains on divestitures of operations were $48 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 as compared with $24 million for 2005 and $10 million for 2004. Wheelabrator The electric rates we charge to our customers at our waste to energy facilities increased significantly during the latter portion of 2005 as a result of higher market prices for natural gas. The rates we charge customers are indexed to natural gas prices, which increased significantly as a result of hurricane related production disruptions, increased demand and increases in crude oil prices. This increase in rates was the principal reason for the 2005 increase in Wheelabrators income from operations as compared with 2004. The favorable impact of market prices for natural gas was partially offset by higher costs of goods sold and higher repair and maintenance costs due to the scope and timing of maintenance performed in 2005 as compared with 2004. Recycling During 2006, the Group recognized $10 million of charges for a loss on divestiture and an impairment of certain under performing operations, which were slightly more than offset by savings associated with the Groups cost control efforts. The decrease in income from operations in our Recycling Group during 2005 when compared with 2004 can generally be attributed to (i) an increase in the rebates paid to our suppliers as a result of increased competition; (ii) costs related to the deployment of new software; and (iii) higher subcontractor costs primarily related to increased distances traveled by third party haulers. The comparability of operating results for the Recycling Group for all of the periods presented has been affected by variances in the market prices for recyclable commodities. During the three years ended December 31, 2006, year over year changes in the quarterly average market prices of OCC and ONP have 41 Table of Contents ranged from a decrease of as much as 33% to an increase of as much as 36%. However, declines in the market prices for recyclable commodities resulted in only marginal year over year decreases to our income from operations during 2006 and 2005 because a substantial portion of changes in market prices are generally passed on as rebates to our suppliers. Other The changes in Income from operations attributed to our other operations is driven primarily by the 2005 recognition of a $39 million pre tax gain resulting from the divestiture of one of our landfills in Ontario, Canada. This impact is included in (Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items within our Consolidated Statement of Operations. As this landfill had been divested at the time of our 2005 reorganization, historical financial information associated with its operations has not been allocated to our remaining reportable segments. Accordingly, these impacts have been included in Other. The impact of this 2005 divestiture gain is partially offset by the effect of certain other quarter end adjustments related to the operating segments that are recorded in consolidation and, due to timing, not included in the measure of segment income from operations used to assess their performance for the periods disclosed. Corporate Expenses were higher in 2005 as compared with 2006 primarily due to impairment charges in 2005 of $68 million associated with capitalized software costs and $31 million of net charges associated with various legal and divestiture matters. In 2006, we recognized $37 million of net charges associated with various legal and divestiture matters. These items are discussed in the (Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments and Unusual Items section above. In 2006, we experienced lower risk management and employee health and welfare plan costs largely due to our focus on safety and controlling costs. These cost savings have been largely offset by the following cost increases: (i) a $20 million charge recorded to recognize unrecorded obligations associated with unclaimed property, which is discussed in the Selling, General and Administrative section above; (ii) increased incentive compensation expense associated with the Companys current strong performance; (iii) higher consulting fees and sales commissions primarily related to our pricing initiatives; (iv) an increase in our marketing costs due to our national advertising campaign; and (v) the centralization of support functions that were provided by our Group offices prior to our 2005 reorganization. The higher expenses in 2005 as compared with 2004 were driven by the previously noted $99 million charged to (Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items during 2005. Also contributing to the increase in expenses during 2005 were (i) non cash employee compensation costs associated with current year changes in equity based compensation; (ii) inflation in employee health care costs; (iii) salary and wage annual merit increases; (iv) costs for sales and marketing programs; and (v) costs at Corporate associated with our July 2005 restructuring charge and organizational changes, which were partially offset by associated savings at Corporate. Other Components of Income Before Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle The following summarizes the other major components of our income before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle for the year ended December 31 for each respective period (in millions): Period to Period to 2006 Period Change 2005 Period Change 2004 Interest expense $ (545 ) $ (49 ) 9.9 % $ (496 ) $ (41 ) 9.0 % $ (455 ) Interest income 69 38 * 31 (39 ) (55.7 ) 70 Equity in net losses of unconsolidated entities (36 ) 71 * (107 ) (9 ) 9.2 (98 ) Minority interest (44 ) 4 (8.3 ) (48 ) (12 ) 33.3 (36 ) Other, net 1 (1 ) * 2 4 * (2 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 325 415 * (90 ) (337 ) * 247 * Percentage change does not provide a meaningful comparison. Refer to the explanations of these items below for a discussion of the relationship between current year and prior year activity. 42 Table of Contents Interest Expense The increase in interest expense in 2006 and 2005 is generally related to higher market interest rates, which have resulted in a decrease in the benefit of our interest rate swaps and an increase in the interest rates of our variable rate debt. The increase in our interest expense in 2006 due to higher market interest rates was partially offset by the impact of a decrease in our outstanding debt, which is due to our repayment of borrowings throughout the year. We use interest rate derivative contracts to manage our exposure to changes in market interest rates. The combined impact of active and terminated interest rate swap agreements resulted in a net interest expense increase of $4 million for 2006 and net interest expense reductions of $39 million and $90 million for 2005 and 2004, respectively. The significant decline in the benefit recognized as a result of our active interest rate swap agreements is attributable to the increase in short term market interest rates. Our periodic interest obligations under our active interest rate swap agreements are based on a spread from the three month LIBOR, which has increased from 2.56% at December 31, 2004 to 4.54% at December 31, 2005 and to 5.36% at December 31, 2006. Included in the $4 million net increase in interest expense realized in 2006 for terminated and active interest rate swap agreements is a $41 million reduction in interest expense related to the amortization of terminated swaps. Our terminated interest rate swaps are expected to reduce interest expense by $37 million in 2007, $33 million in 2008 and $19 million in 2009. In addition, we have $652 million of tax exempt borrowings remarketed either daily or weekly to effectively maintain a variable yield. The interest rates of these borrowings increased over the last two years due to higher market rates. Interest Income The increase in interest income when comparing 2006 with 2005 is due to an increase in our investments in variable rate demand notes and auction rate securities throughout the year. Interest income for 2006 and 2004 includes interest income of $14 million and $46 million, respectively, realized on tax refunds received from the IRS for the settlement of several federal audits. Equity in Net Losses of Unconsolidated Entities In the first and second quarters of 2004, we acquired an equity interest in two coal based synthetic fuel production facilities. The activities of these facilities drive our Equity in net losses of unconsolidated entities. The significant decrease in the equity losses attributable to these facilities when comparing 2006 with prior years is due to (i) the estimated effect of a 36% phase out of Section 45K (formerly Section 29) credits generated during 2006 on our contractual obligations associated with funding the facilities losses as a result of a substantial increase in market prices of crude oil; (ii) the suspension of operations at the facilities from May to September of 2006; and (iii) a cumulative adjustment necessary to appropriately reflect our life to date obligations to fund the costs of operating the facilities and the value of our investment. The increase in these losses from 2004 to 2005 is due to the timing of our initial investments in 2004. These equity losses are more than offset by the tax benefit realized as a result of these investments. The impact of these facilities on our provision for taxes is discussed below within Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes. Additional information related to these investments is included in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Minority Interest On December 31, 2003, we consolidated two special purpose type variable interest entities as a result of our implementation of FIN 46(R). Our minority interest expense for 2006, 2005 and 2004 is primarily related to the other members equity interest in the earnings of these entities. Additional information related to these investments is included in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Other, net Our other income and expense is primarily attributable to the impact of foreign currency translation on our Canadian operations. 43 Table of Contents Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes We recorded a provision for income taxes of $325 million in 2006, a benefit from income taxes of $90 million in 2005, and a provision for income taxes of $247 million in 2004 resulting in an effective income tax rate of approximately 22.1%, (8.2)%, and 21.0% for each of the three years, respectively. When excluding the effect of interest income related to audit settlements, the settlement of various federal and state tax audit matters during 2006, 2005 and 2004 resulted in a reduction in our provision for income taxes of $149 million, (representing a 10.1 percentage point reduction in our effective tax rate), $398 million, (representing a 36.4 percentage point reduction in our effective tax rate) and $101 million, (representing an 8.5 percentage point reduction in our effective tax rate), respectively. The benefit of non conventional fuel tax credits is derived from methane gas projects at our landfills and our investments in two coal based synthetic fuel production facilities, which are discussed in the Equity in Net Losses of Unconsolidated Entities section above. These tax credits are available through 2007 pursuant to Section 45K of the Internal Revenue Code, and are phased out if the price of crude oil exceeds a threshold annual average price determined by the IRS. Our effective tax rate for 2006 reflects a phase out of 36% of Section 45K tax credits generated during 2006 and a temporary shut down of the synthetic fuel production facilities. We have developed our estimate of the phase out using market information for crude oil prices as of December 31, 2006. Our synthetic fuel production facility investments resulted in a decrease in our tax provision of $64 million for 2006, $145 million for 2005 and $131 million for 2004, which more than offset the related equity losses and interest expense for those entities. Refer to Note 8 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the impact of these investments on our provision for taxes. For all periods, a portion of the difference in income taxes computed at the federal statutory rate and reported income taxes is due to state and local income taxes. Additionally, in 2006, we recorded reductions to income tax expense related to (i) a decrease in our effective state tax rate resulting in a $9 million benefit related to the revaluation of net accumulated deferred tax liabilities; (ii) a $20 million tax benefit due to scheduled tax rate reductions in Canada and the resulting revaluation of related net accumulated deferred tax liabilities; and (iii) an $11 million state tax benefit arising from the reduction in the valuation allowance related to the expected utilization of state net operating loss and credit carryforwards. In 2005, we recorded additional income tax expense related to (i) the accrual of $4 million to increase net accumulated deferred tax liabilities resulting from a change in the provincial tax rate in Quebec and (ii) the accrual of $34 million of taxes associated with our plan to repatriate $496 million of accumulated earnings and capital from certain of our Canadian subsidiaries under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. These amounts were offset in part by a change in our estimated state effective tax rate causing us to realize a benefit of $16 million related to the revaluation of net accumulated deferred tax liabilities. Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle On March 31, 2004, we recorded a credit of $8 million, net of taxes, or $0.01 per diluted share, to Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle as a result of the consolidation of previously unrecorded trusts as required by FIN 46(R). See Notes 2 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Liquidity and Capital Resources General We have consistently generated cash flows from operations in excess of our reinvestment needs. However, we operate in a capital intensive business and continued access to various financing resources is vital to our continued financial strength. In the past, we have been successful in obtaining financing from a variety of sources on terms we consider attractive. Based on several key factors we believe are considered important by credit rating agencies and financial markets in determining our access to attractive financing alternatives, we expect to continue to maintain access to capital sources in the future. These factors include: the essential nature of the services we provide and our large and diverse customer base; 44 Table of Contents our ability to generate strong and consistent cash flows despite the economic environment; our liquidity profile; our asset base; and our commitment to maintaining a moderate financial profile and disciplined capital allocation. We continually monitor our actual and forecasted cash flows, our liquidity and our capital resources, enabling us to plan for our present needs and fund unbudgeted business activities that may arise during the year as a result of changing business conditions or new opportunities. In addition to our working capital needs for the general and administrative costs of our ongoing operations, we have cash requirements for: (i) the construction and expansion of our landfills; (ii) additions to and maintenance of our trucking fleet; (iii) refurbishments and improvements at waste to energy and materials recovery facilities; (iv) the container and equipment needs of our operations; (v) capping, closure and post closure activities at our landfills; and (vi) repaying debt and discharging other obligations. We also are committed to providing our shareholders with a return on their investment through our capital allocation program that provides for dividend payments, share repurchases and investments in acquisitions that we believe will be accretive and provide continued growth in our business. On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act) became law. A provision of the Act allowed U.S. companies to repatriate earnings from their foreign subsidiaries at a reduced tax rate during 2005. Our Chief Executive Officer and Board of Directors approved a domestic reinvestment plan under which we repatriated $496 million of our accumulated foreign earnings and capital in 2005. The repatriation was funded with cash on hand and bank borrowings. For a discussion of the tax impact and bank borrowings see Notes 7 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Summary of Cash, Short Term Investments, Restricted Trust and Escrow Accounts and Debt Obligations The following is a summary of our cash, short term investments available for use, restricted trust and escrow accounts and debt balances as of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005 (in millions): 2006 2005 Cash and cash equivalents $ 614 $ 666 Short term investments available for use 184 300 Total cash, cash equivalents and short term investments available for use $ 798 $ 966 Restricted trust and escrow accounts: Tax exempt bond funds $ 94 $ 185 Closure, post closure and environmental remediation funds 219 205 Debt service funds 45 52 Other 19 18 Total restricted trust and escrow accounts $ 377 $ 460 Debt: Current portion $ 822 $ 522 Long term portion 7,495 8,165 Total debt $ 8,317 $ 8,687 Increase in carrying value of debt due to hedge accounting for interest rate swaps $ 19 $ 47 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of cash on deposit, certificates of deposit, money market accounts, and investment grade commercial paper purchased with original maturities of three months or less. 45 Table of Contents Short term investments available for use These investments include auction rate securities and variable rate demand notes, which are debt instruments with long term scheduled maturities and periodic interest rate reset dates. The interest rate reset mechanism for these instruments results in a periodic marketing of the underlying securities through an auction process. Due to the liquidity provided by the interest rate reset mechanism and the short term nature of our investment in these securities, they have been classified as current assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Restricted trust and escrow accounts Restricted trust and escrow accounts consist primarily of funds held in trust for the construction of various facilities or repayment of debt obligations, funds deposited in connection with landfill closure, post closure and remediation obligations and insurance escrow deposits. These balances are primarily included within long term Other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion. Debt Revolving credit and letter of credit facilities The table below summarizes the credit capacity, maturity and outstanding letters of credit under our revolving credit facility, principal letter of credit facilities and other credit arrangements as of December 31, 2006 (in millions): Outstanding Total Credit Letters Facility Capacity Maturity of Credit Five year revolving credit facility(a) $ 2,400 August 2011 $ 1,301 Five year letter of credit and term loan agreement(b) 15 June 2008 15 Five year letter of credit facility(b) 350 December 2008 346 Seven year letter of credit and term loan agreement(b) 175 June 2010 175 Ten year letter of credit and term loan agreement(b) 105 June 2013 105 Other(c) Various 75 Total $ 3,045 $ 2,017 (a) On August 17, 2006, WMI entered into a five year, $2.4 billion revolving credit facility, replacing the $2.4 billion syndicated revolving credit facility that would have expired in October 2009. This facility provides us with credit capacity that could be used for either cash borrowings or letters of credit. At December 31, 2006, no borrowings were outstanding under the facility, and we had unused and available credit capacity of $1,099 million. (b) These facilities have been established to provide us with letter of credit capacity. In the event of an unreimbursed draw on a letter of credit, the amount of the draw paid by the letter of credit provider generally converts into a term loan for the remaining term under the respective agreement or facility. Through December 31, 2006 we had not experienced any unreimbursed draws on our letters of credit. (c) We have letters of credit outstanding under various arrangements that do not provide for a committed capacity. Accordingly, the total credit capacity of these arrangements has been noted as zero. We have used each of these facilities to support letters of credit that we issue to support our insurance programs, certain tax exempt bond issuances, municipal and governmental waste management contracts, closure and post closure obligations and disposal site or transfer station operating permits. These facilities require us to pay fees to the financial institutions and our obligation is generally to repay any draws that may occur on the letters of credit. We expect that similar facilities may continue to serve as a cost efficient source of letter of credit capacity in the future, and we continue to assess our financial assurance requirements to ensure that we have adequate letter of credit and surety bond capacity in advance of our business needs. Canadian Credit Facility In November 2005, Waste Management of Canada Corporation, one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, entered into a three year credit facility agreement under which we could borrow up to Canadian $410 million. The agreement was entered into to facilitate WMIs repatriation of accumulated earnings and capital from its Canadian subsidiaries as discussed above. 46 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2006, we had $313 million of principal ($308 million net of discount) outstanding under this credit facility. Advances under the facility do not accrue interest during their terms. Accordingly, the proceeds we initially received were for the principal amount of the advances net of the total interest obligation due for the term of the advance, and the debt was initially recorded based on the net proceeds received. The advances have a weighted average effective interest rate of 4.8% at December 31, 2006, which is being amortized to interest expense with a corresponding increase in our recorded debt obligation using the effective interest method. During the year ended December 31, 2006, we increased the carrying value of the debt for the recognition of $15 million of interest expense. A total of $47 million of advances under the facility matured during 2006 and were repaid with available cash. Accounting for changes in the Canadian currency translation rate did not significantly affect the carrying value of these borrowings during 2006. Our outstanding advances mature less than one year from the date of issuance, but may be renewed under the terms of the facility. While we may elect to renew portions of our outstanding advances under the terms of the facility, we currently expect to repay our borrowings under the facility within one year with available cash. Accordingly, these borrowings are classified as current in our December 31, 2006 Consolidated Balance Sheet. As of December 31, 2005, we had expected to repay $86 million of outstanding advances with available cash and renew the remaining borrowings under the terms of the facility. Based on our expectations at that time, we classified $86 million as current and $254 million as long term in our December 31, 2005 Consolidated Balance Sheet. Senior notes As of December 31, 2006, we had $4.8 billion of outstanding senior notes. The notes have various maturities ranging from October 2007 to May 2032, and interest rates ranging from 5.00% to 8.75%. On October 15, 2006, $300 million of 7.0% senior notes matured and were repaid with cash on hand. We have $300 million of 7.125% senior notes that mature in October 2007 that we currently expect to repay with available cash. Accordingly, this borrowing is classified as current as of December 31, 2006. Tax exempt bonds We actively issue tax exempt bonds as a means of accessing low cost financing for capital expenditures. As of December 31, 2006, we had $2.4 billion of outstanding tax exempt bonds. We issued $159 million of tax exempt bonds during 2006. The proceeds from these debt issuances were deposited directly into a trust fund and may only be used for the specific purpose for which the money was raised, which is generally the construction of collection and disposal facilities and for the equipment necessary to provide waste management services. Accordingly, the restricted funds provided by these financing activities have not been included in New borrowings in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2006. As we spend monies on the specific projects being financed, we are able to requisition cash from the trust funds. As discussed in the restricted trusts and escrow accounts section above, we have $94 million held in trust for future spending as of December 31, 2006. During 2006, we received $258 million from these funds for approved capital expenditures. As of December 31, 2006, $606 million of our tax exempt bonds are remarketed weekly by a remarketing agent to effectively maintain a variable yield. If the remarketing agent is unable to remarket the bonds, then the remarketing agent can put the bonds to us. These bonds are supported by letters of credit that were issued primarily under our $2.4 billion, five year revolving credit facility that guarantee repayment of the bonds in the event the bonds are put to us. Accordingly, these obligations have been classified as long term in our December 31, 2006 Consolidated Balance Sheet. Additionally, as of December 31, 2006, we have $255 million of fixed rate tax exempt bonds subject to repricing within the next twelve months, which is prior to their scheduled maturities. If the re offerings of the bonds are unsuccessful, then the bonds can be put to us, requiring immediate repayment. These bonds are not backed by letters of credit supported by our long term facilities that would serve to guarantee repayment in the event of a failed re offering and are, therefore, considered a current obligation for financial reporting purposes. However, these bonds have been classified as long term in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2006. The classification of these obligations as long term was based upon our intent to refinance the borrowings with other long term financings in the event of a failed re offering and our ability, in the event other sources of long term financing are not available, to use our five year revolving credit facility. Tax exempt project bonds As of December 31, 2006, we had $352 million of outstanding tax exempt project bonds. These debt instruments are primarily used by our Wheelabrator Group to finance the development of waste to energy facilities. The bonds generally require periodic principal installment payments. As of 47 Table of Contents December 31, 2006, $46 million of these bonds are remarketed either daily or weekly by a remarketing agent to effectively maintain a variable yield. If the remarketing agent is unable to remarket the bonds, then the remarketing agent can put the bonds to us. Repayment of these bonds has been guaranteed with letters of credit issued under our five year revolving credit facility. Accordingly, these obligations have been classified as long term in our December 31, 2006 Consolidated Balance Sheet. Approximately $61 million of our tax exempt project bonds will be repaid with either available cash or debt service funds within the next twelve months. Interest rate swaps We manage the interest rate risk of our debt portfolio principally by using interest rate derivatives to achieve a desired position of fixed and floating rate debt. As of December 31, 2006, the interest payments on $2.4 billion of our fixed rate debt have been swapped to variable rates, allowing us to maintain approximately 64% of our debt at fixed interest rates and approximately 36% of our debt at variable interest rates. Fair value hedge accounting for interest rate swap contracts increased the carrying value of debt instruments by $19 million as of December 31, 2006 and $47 million at December 31, 2005. Summary of Cash Flow Activity The following is a summary of our cash flows for the year ended December 31 for each respective period (in millions): 2006 2005 2004 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,540 $ 2,391 $ 2,218 Net cash used in investing activities $ (788 ) $ (1,062 ) $ (882 ) Net cash used in financing activities $ (1,803 ) $ (1,090 ) $ (1,130 ) Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities During 2006 and 2005, our cash flows from operating activities increased $149 million and $173 million, respectively, on a year over year basis. In both years, the increases were due to growth in our operating income and comparative changes in our receivables and accounts payable and accrued liabilities, and were partially offset by increases in cash paid for income taxes. The change in our receivables balances, net of effects of acquisitions and divestitures, provided a source of cash of $12 million in 2006, compared to a use of cash in both 2005 and 2004 of $102 million and $223 million, respectively. In 2006, our receivables balances declined in part due to a decrease in fourth quarter revenues as compared with the prior year, but also due to improved efficiency of collections. We have created and implemented new processes to assist our Market Areas with collections. The increases in our receivables balances, and resulting uses of cash in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, in 2005 and 2004 were primarily related to increased revenues. However, the significant year over year change can partially be attributed to 2004 receivable balances associated with significant revenues generated from hurricane related services provided in the second half of 2004. We made income tax payments of $475 million in 2006, $233 million in 2005 and $136 million in 2004. The increase in 2006 is primarily the result of improved earnings, a 36% phase out of Section 45K tax credits and the temporary shutdown of our two coal based synthetic fuel production facilities. There was no phase out of Section 45K tax credits or temporary shutdown of the coal based synthetic fuel production facilities in either 2005 or 2004. The increase from 2004 to 2005 is the combined result of increased earnings and the expiration of first year bonus depreciation on property acquired after September 1, 2001 and before January 1, 2005, which favorably impacted taxes paid in 2004. Our provision for income taxes has been significantly affected by tax audit settlements in each period presented. Tax audit settlements and related interest positively affected our net income by $158 million in 2006, $398 million in 2005 and $129 million in 2004. Additionally, we received cash refunds of $62 million in 2006 and $71 million in 2005 related to these tax audit settlements. The remaining impact of these settlements has been reflected as changes in our Accounts payable and accrued liabilities for the related periods. The comparability of our operating cash flows for the periods presented is also affected by our adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006. SFAS No. 123(R) requires reductions in income taxes payable attributable to excess tax benefits associated with equity based compensation to be included in cash flows from financing 48 Table of Contents activities, which are discussed below. Prior to adopting SFAS No. 123(R), our excess tax benefits associated with equity based compensation were included within cash flows from operating activities as a change in Accounts payable and accrued liabilities. During 2005 and 2004, these excess tax benefits improved our operating cash flows by approximately $17 million and $37 million, respectively. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities We used $788 million of our cash resources for investing activities during 2006, a decrease of $274 million compared with 2005. This decrease is primarily due to (i) a $417 million increase in net cash flows provided by purchases and sales of short term investments; (ii) a $110 million decline in spending for acquisitions of businesses; and (iii) a $46 million increase in proceeds from divestitures of businesses (net of cash divested) and other sales of assets. The effect of these items on our cash used in investing activities was partially offset by a $149 million increase in capital spending and a $142 million decline in net receipts from restricted trust and escrow accounts. Net sales of short term investments provided $122 million of cash in 2006, compared with net purchases of short term investments of $295 million during 2005. In 2006, we experienced net sales of short term investments as we utilized our short term investments and available cash to fund our common stock repurchases, dividend payments and debt repayments, which are discussed below. Our spending on acquisitions decreased from $142 million during 2005 to $32 million in 2006. As we make progress on our divestiture program, we plan to increase our focus on accretive acquisitions and other investments that will contribute to improved future results of operations and enhance and expand our existing service offerings. Proceeds from divestitures (net of cash divested) and other sales of assets were $240 million in 2006 compared with $194 million in 2005, an increase of $46 million. Approximately $89 million of our 2005 proceeds were related to the sale of one of our landfills in Ontario, Canada as required by a Divestiture Order from the Canadian Competition Tribunal. When excluding the cash proceeds generated by this transaction, proceeds from divestitures have increased by $135 million during 2006 when compared with 2005. This increase is primarily a result of the execution of our plan to divest of certain under performing and non strategic operations. Net funds received from our restricted trust and escrow accounts, which are largely generated from the issuance of tax exempt bonds for our capital needs, contributed $253 million to our investing activities in 2006 compared with $395 million in 2005. The decrease is due to a decline in new tax exempt borrowings. We used $1,329 million during 2006 for capital expenditures, compared with $1,180 million in 2005. The increase occurred across all asset categories. However, our landfill and vehicles asset categories were the most significantly affected. We used $1,062 million of our cash resources for investing activities during 2005, an increase of $180 million compared with 2004. This increase is primarily due to a $266 million change in net cash flows associated with purchases and sales of short term investments. Net purchases of short term investments during 2005 were $295 million compared with net purchases of $29 million during 2004. The increase in our short term investments available for use as of December 31, 2005 can generally be attributed to an increase in our available cash, which we used to fund, among other things, a $275 million accelerated share repurchase agreement that became effective in January 2006 and our first quarter 2006 dividend that was paid in March 2006. Our share repurchases and dividends are discussed in our Net Cash Used in Financing Activities section below. The increase in net cash outflows from investing activities as a result of our short term investments was partially offset by (i) an increase in proceeds from divestitures of businesses (net of cash divested) and other sales of assets and (ii) a decrease in capital expenditures. Proceeds from divestitures of businesses (net of cash divested) and other sales of assets were $194 million in 2005 and $96 million in 2004. The $98 million increase from 2004 to 2005 is largely attributable to the sale of one of our landfills in Ontario, Canada. Capital expenditures were $1,180 million in 2005, which is $78 million less than we invested in capital in 2004. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities The most significant changes in our financing cash flows during the three years ended December 31, 2006 are related to (i) increases in cash paid for our repurchases of common stock and cash dividends; (ii) variances in our net debt repayments, which can generally be attributed to scheduled 49 Table of Contents maturities; and (iii) variances in proceeds from the exercise of common stock options and warrants. These financing activities are discussed below. Our 2006 and 2005 share repurchases and dividend payments have been made in accordance with a three year capital allocation program that was approved by our Board of Directors. This capital allocation program authorizes up to $1.2 billion of combined share repurchases and dividend payments each year during 2005, 2006 and 2007. In June 2006, the Board of Directors authorized up to $350 million of additional share repurchases in 2006, increasing the total of capital authorized for share repurchases and dividends in 2006 to $1.55 billion. We paid $1,072 million for share repurchases in 2006, as compared with $706 million in 2005 and $496 million in 2004. We repurchased approximately 31 million, 25 million and 17 million shares of our common stock in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We currently expect to continue repurchasing common stock under the capital allocation program discussed above. We paid an aggregate of $476 million in cash dividends during 2006 compared with $449 million in 2005 and $432 million in 2004. The increase in dividend payments is due to annual increases in our per share dividend payment, which increased from a quarterly per share dividend of $0.1875 in 2004, to $0.20 in 2005 and to $0.22 in 2006. The impact of the year over year increases in the per share dividend has been partially offset by a reduction in the number of our outstanding shares as a result of our share repurchase program. In December 2006, the Board of Directors announced that it expects future quarterly dividend payments will be $0.24 per share. All future dividend declarations are at the discretion of the Board of Directors, and depend on various factors, including our net earnings, financial condition, cash required for future prospects and other factors the Board may deem relevant. Net debt repayments were $500 million in 2006, $11 million in 2005 and $386 million in 2004. The following summarizes our most significant cash borrowings and debt repayments made during each year (in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Borrowings: Canadian credit facility $ 432 $ 365 $ Senior notes 346 Other debt 69 $ 432 $ 365 $ 415 Repayments: Canadian credit facility $ (479 ) $ $ Senior notes (300 ) (103 ) (645 ) Tax exempt bonds (9 ) (25 ) Tax exempt project bonds (50 ) (46 ) (42 ) Convertible subordinated notes (35 ) Capital leases and other debt (94 ) (192 ) (89 ) $ (932 ) $ (376 ) $ (801 ) Net repayments $ (500 ) $ (11 ) $ (386 ) The exercise of common stock options and warrants and the related excess tax benefits generated a total of $340 million of financing cash inflows during 2006, compared with $129 million in 2005 and $193 million in 2004. We believe the significant increase in stock option and warrant exercises in 2006 is due to the substantial increase in the market value of our common stock during 2006. The accelerated vesting of all outstanding stock options in December 2005 also resulted in increased cash proceeds from stock option exercises because the acceleration made additional options available for exercise. As discussed above, the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006 resulted in the classification of tax savings provided by equity based compensation as a financing cash inflow rather than an operating cash inflow beginning in the first quarter of 2006. This change in accounting increased cash flows from financing activities by $45 million in 2006. 50 Table of Contents Summary of Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2006 and the anticipated effect of these obligations on our liquidity in future years (in millions): 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter Total Recorded Obligations: Expected environmental liabilities(a) Final capping, closure and post closure $ 111 $ 112 $ 110 $ 110 $ 58 $ 1,566 $ 2,067 Environmental remediation 44 41 29 22 12 179 327 155 153 139 132 70 1,745 2,394 Debt payments(b),(c) 815 539 681 713 247 5,305 8,300 Unrecorded Obligations:(d) Share repurchases(e) 70 70 Non cancelable operating lease obligations 89 71 59 51 34 152 456 Estimated unconditional purchase obligations(f) 150 133 127 114 70 357 951 Anticipated liquidity impact as of December 31, 2006 $ 1,279 $ 896 $ 1,006 $ 1,010 $ 421 $ 7,559 $ 12,171 (a) Environmental liabilities include final capping, closure, post closure and environmental remediation costs. The amounts included here reflect environmental liabilities recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2006 without the impact of discounting and inflation. Our recorded environmental liabilities will increase as we continue to place additional tons within the permitted airspace at our landfills. (b) Our debt obligations as of December 31, 2006 include $255 million of fixed rate tax exempt bonds subject to repricing within the next twelve months, which is prior to their scheduled maturities. If the re offerings of the bonds are unsuccessful, then the bonds can be put to us, requiring immediate repayment. We have classified the anticipated cash flows for these contractual obligations based on the scheduled maturity of the borrowing for purposes of this disclosure. For additional information regarding the classification of these borrowings in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2006, refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (c) Our recorded debt obligations include non cash adjustments associated with discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments for interest rate hedging activities. These amounts have been excluded here because they will not result in an impact to our liquidity in future periods. In addition, $45 million of our future debt payments and related interest obligations will be made with debt service funds held in trust and included as long term Other assets within our December 31, 2006 Consolidated Balance Sheet. (d) Our unrecorded obligations represent operating lease obligations and purchase commitments from which we expect to realize an economic benefit in future periods. We have also made certain guarantees, as discussed in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, that we do not expect to materially affect our current or future financial position, results of operations or liquidity. (e) In December 2006, we entered into a plan under SEC Rule 10b5 1 to effect market purchases of our common stock. The $70 million disclosed here represents the minimum amount of common stock that could be repurchased under the terms of the plan. These common stock repurchases were made in accordance with our Board of Directors approved capital allocation program which authorizes up to $1.2 billion in share repurchases and dividends in 2007. We repurchased $72 million of our common stock pursuant to the plan, which was completed on February 9, 2007. (f) Our unconditional purchase obligations are for various contractual obligations that we generally incur in the ordinary course of our business. Certain of our obligations are quantity driven. For these contracts, we have estimated our future obligations based on the current market values of the underlying products or services. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the nature and terms of our unconditional purchase obligations. 51 Table of Contents We have contingencies that are not considered reasonably likely. As a result, the impact of these contingencies have not been included in the above table. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these contingencies. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We are party to guarantee arrangements with unconsolidated entities as discussed in the Guarantees section of Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our third party guarantee arrangements are generally established to support our financial assurance needs and landfill operations. These arrangements have not materially affected our financial position, results of operations or liquidity during the year ended December 31, 2006 nor are they expected to have a material impact on our future financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Seasonal Trends and Inflation Our operating revenues tend to be somewhat higher in the summer months, primarily due to the higher volume of construction and demolition waste. The volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain regions where we operate also tend to increase during the summer months. Our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect these seasonal trends. Additionally, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year, such as the hurricanes experienced in 2004 and 2005, can actually increase our revenues in the areas affected. However, for several reasons, including significant start up costs, such revenue often generates comparatively lower margins. Certain weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect the operating results of the affected regions. The operating results of our first quarter also often reflect higher repair and maintenance expenses because we rely on the slower winter months, when electrical demand is generally lower, to perform scheduled maintenance at our waste to energy facilities. While inflationary increases in costs, including the cost of fuel, have affected our operating margins in recent periods, we believe that inflation generally has not had, and in the near future is not expected to have, any material adverse effect on our results of operations. However, managements estimates associated with inflation have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our accounting for landfill and environmental remediation liabilities. New Accounting Pronouncements FIN 48 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes In June 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109) (FIN 48), which clarifies the relevant criteria and approach for the recognition, de recognition and measurement of uncertain tax positions. FIN 48 will be effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2007. We do not expect the adoption of FIN 48 to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. SFAS No. 157 Fair Value Measurements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157), which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 will be effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2008. We are currently in the process of assessing the provisions of SFAS No. 157 and determining how this framework for measuring fair value will affect our current accounting policies and procedures and our financial statements. We have not determined whether the adoption of SFAS No. 157 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk. In the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, Canadian currency rates and certain commodity prices. From time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. Our derivatives are agreements with independent counterparties that provide for payments based on a notional amount, with no multipliers or leverage. As of December 31, 2006, all of our derivative transactions were related to 52 Table of Contents actual or anticipated economic exposures although certain transactions did not qualify for hedge accounting. We are exposed to credit risk in the event of non performance by our derivative counterparties. However, we monitor our derivative positions by regularly evaluating our positions and the creditworthiness of the counterparties, all of whom we either consider credit worthy, or who have issued letters of credit to support their performance. We have performed sensitivity analyses to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk sensitive derivatives and related positions. These analyses are inherently limited because they reflect a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. Actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. The effects of market movements may also directly or indirectly affect our assumptions and our rights and obligations not covered by the sensitivity analyses. Fair value sensitivity is not necessarily indicative of the ultimate cash flow or the earnings effect from the assumed market rate movements. Interest Rate Exposure. Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our debt obligations, which are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars. In addition, we use interest rate swaps to manage the mix of fixed and floating rate debt obligations, which directly impacts variability in interest costs. An instantaneous, one percentage point increase in interest rates across all maturities and applicable yield curves would have decreased the fair value of our combined debt and interest rate swap positions by approximately $460 million at December 31, 2006 and $480 million at December 31, 2005. This analysis does not reflect the effect that increasing interest rates would have on other items, such as new borrowings, nor the unfavorable impact they would have on interest expense and cash payments for interest. We are also exposed to interest rate market risk because we have $377 million and $460 million of assets held in restricted trust funds and escrow accounts primarily included within long term Other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These assets are generally restricted for future capital expenditures and closure, post closure and environmental remediation activities at our disposal facilities and are, therefore, invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market accounts and U.S. government agency debt securities. Because of the short terms to maturity of these investments, we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant. Currency Rate Exposure. From time to time, we have used currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency translation on cash flows of intercompany Canadian currency denominated debt transactions. Our foreign currency derivatives have not materially affected our financial position or results of operations for the periods presented. In addition, a change in foreign currency rates would not significantly affect our fair value positions. Commodities Price Exposure. We market recycled products such as wastepaper, aluminum and glass from our material recovery facilities. We have entered into commodity swaps and options to mitigate the variability in cash flows from a portion of these sales. Under the swap agreements, we pay a floating index price and receive a fixed price for a fixed period of time. With regard to our option agreements, we have purchased price protection on certain wastepaper sales via synthetic floors (put options) and price protection on certain wastepaper purchases via synthetic ceilings (call options). Additionally, we have entered into collars (combination of a put and call option) with financial institutions in which we receive the market price for our wastepaper and aluminum sales within a specified floor and ceiling. We record changes in the fair value of commodity derivatives not designated as hedges to earnings, as required. All derivative transactions are subject to our risk management policy, which governs the type of instruments that may be used. The fair value position of our commodity derivatives would decrease by approximately $5 million at December 31, 2006 and by approximately $10 million at December 31, 2005 if there were an instantaneous 10% increase across all commodities and applicable yield curves. See Notes 3 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the use of and accounting for derivative instruments. 53 Table of Contents 
 
