Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This section includes a discussion of our results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 2009. This discussion may contain forward looking statements that anticipate results based on managements plans that are subject to uncertainty. We discuss in more detail various factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations in Item 1A, Risk Factors. The following discussion should be read in light of that disclosure and together with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2009 Overview In our outlook for 2009, we communicated our belief that we would be well positioned to weather the challenges presented by the current economic environment. We also noted that we would focus our efforts on ensuring we are operating efficiently and generating strong and consistent free cash flows. When reviewing our 2009 financial results, we believe that our focus throughout the year on (i) maintaining our pricing discipline; (ii) controlling our costs and reducing discretionary spending; and (iii) ensuring that our cost structure is flexible enough to respond to volume changes in a timely manner has enabled us to produce solid results in a difficult environment. During 2009, our most significant challenges included (i) reduced volumes due to an overall decrease in waste produced that can be attributed to sharp declines in residential and commercial construction and in consumer and business spending; (ii) an unusually weak recyclable commodities market for most of the year; and (iii) decreases in market prices for electricity, which affect the yield of our waste to energy and landfill gas to energy operations. Against this backdrop, we believe that our 2009 results of operations reflected the resilience of our core business and the opportunities that economic recovery will present for our more efficient organization. The highlights of our 2009 financial results include: Revenues of $11.8 billion and internal revenue growth from yield from collection and disposal operations of 2.9%; Income from operations of $1.9 billion and income from operations as a percentage of revenue of 16.0%, in spite of the recognition of $83 million of non cash impairment charges, which were primarily a result of (i) our decision to abandon the SAP software as our revenue management system; and (ii) a change in expectations for the future operations of a landfill in California; Effective tax rate of 28.1% due principally to the favorable impacts of fourth quarter adjustments to our provision for income taxes related to the carry back of a capital loss, recognition of state net operating losses and tax credits, and revaluation of deferred taxes due to Canadian tax rate reductions; Diluted earnings per share of $2.01; and Cash flow generated from operating activities of $2.4 billion and free cash flow of $1.2 billion. In February 2009, we announced that we were consolidating our 45 Market Areas into 25 Areas to further streamline our operations, and throughout 2009 we incurred $50 million of restructuring costs related to these efforts. The restructuring was a result of our continued efforts to improve the efficiency of our operations. In 2009, we exceeded our expected cost savings of $120 million on an annualized basis due to the restructuring. Although one of our most significant focuses throughout 2009 was on controlling costs, there are areas in which we have purposefully increased spending, as we believe that the long term benefits we will achieve outweigh their negative short term effect on our costs and margins. These include professional fees related to expansion projects, acquisitions and the growth of new business lines. We also have not cut back on spending for information technology, which we believe is imperative to enable our employees to perform efficiently. Liquidity and Cash Flow Although the credit markets came to an unprecedented standstill in late 2008, in February 2009 we were able to issue an aggregate of $800 million of senior notes. The proceeds of this debt issuance were primarily used to refinance debt maturities, which is generally consistent with our practice. The state of the credit markets in late 2009 allowed us, in large part because of our investment grade credit rating and strong balance sheet, to issue an additional $600 million of 30 year senior notes at an interest rate of 6.125%. We believe that the decision to raise capital on such favorable terms was a prudent decision, and will increase our flexibility in 22 Table of Contents pursuing acquisitions and investments in businesses when opportunities arise. Even with the increased indebtedness, we are well within our debt to capitalization goals and all of our financial covenant requirements. However, the increased indebtedness is expected to increase our interest expense in 2010. As is our practice, we are presenting free cash flow, which is a non GAAP measure of liquidity. We believe free cash flow gives investors insight into our ability to pay our quarterly dividends, repurchase common stock, fund acquisitions and other investments and, in the absence of refinancings, to repay our debt obligations. However, the use of free cash flow as a liquidity measure has material limitations because it excludes certain expenditures that are required or that we have committed to, such as declared dividend payments and debt maturities. We calculate free cash flow as shown in the table below (in millions), which may not be the same as similarly titled measures presented by other companies: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,362 $ 2,575 Capital expenditures (1,179 ) (1,221 ) Proceeds from divestitures of businesses (net of cash divested) and other sales of assets 28 112 Free cash flow $ 1,211 $ 1,466 The decrease in our free cash flow in 2009 as compared with 2008 was due, in large part, to the decline in operating cash flows. The decrease in cash flows provided by operating activities can generally be attributed to the economy and market conditions, the impacts of which are discussed in detail throughout the remainder of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Decreased proceeds from divestitures on a year over year basis also contributed to the decline, due in large part to us having fewer underperforming operations to sell. Our ability to generate over $1.2 billion in free cash flow in 2009 enabled us to return $795 million to stockholders during the year through the payment of $569 million in cash dividends and the repurchase of $226 million of our common stock. Basis of Presentation of Consolidated and Segment Financial Information Fair Value Measurements In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued authoritative guidance associated with fair value measurements. This guidance defined fair value, established a framework for measuring fair value, and expanded disclosures about fair value measurements. In February 2008, the FASB delayed the effective date of the guidance for all non financial assets and non financial liabilities, except those that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Accordingly, we adopted this guidance for assets and liabilities recognized at fair value on a recurring basis effective January 1, 2008 and adopted the guidance for non financial assets and liabilities measured on a non recurring basis effective January 1, 2009. The application of the fair value framework did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Business Combinations In December 2007, the FASB issued revisions to the authoritative guidance associated with business combinations. This guidance clarified and revised the principles for how an acquirer recognizes and measures identifiable assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree. This guidance also addressed the recognition and measurement of goodwill acquired in business combinations and expanded disclosure requirements related to business combinations. Effective January 1, 2009, we adopted the FASBs revised guidance associated with business combinations. The portions of this guidance that relate to business combinations completed before January 1, 2009 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Further, business combinations completed in 2009, which are discussed in Note 19 of our Consolidated Financial Statements, have not been material to our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, to the extent that future business combinations are material, our adoption of the FASBs revised authoritative guidance associated with business combinations may significantly impact our 23 Table of Contents accounting and reporting for future acquisitions, principally as a result of (i) expanded requirements to value acquired assets, liabilities and contingencies at their fair values when such amounts can be determined and (ii) the requirement that acquisition related transaction and restructuring costs be expensed as incurred rather than capitalized as a part of the cost of the acquisition. Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements In December 2007, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that established accounting and reporting standards for noncontrolling interests in subsidiaries and for the de consolidation of a subsidiary. The guidance also established that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary is an ownership interest in the consolidated entity that should be reported as equity in the consolidated financial statements. We adopted this guidance on January 1, 2009. The presentation and disclosure requirements of this guidance, which must be applied retrospectively for all periods presented, have resulted in reclassifications to our prior period consolidated financial information and the remeasurement of our 2008 and 2007 effective tax rates, which are discussed in Note 9 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. Refer to Note 2 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the impact of the implementation of new accounting pronouncements on our results of operations and financial position. Reclassification of Segment Information During the first quarter of 2009, we transferred responsibility for the oversight of day to day recycling operations at our material recovery facilities and secondary processing facilities to the management teams of our four geographic Groups. We believe that, by integrating the management of our recycling facilities operations with the remainder of our solid waste business, we can more efficiently provide comprehensive environmental solutions to our customers and ensure that we are focusing on maximizing the profitability and return on invested capital of our business on an integrated basis. As a result of this operational change, we also changed the way we review the financial results of our geographic Groups. Beginning in 2009, the financial results of our material recovery facilities and secondary processing facilities are included as a component of their respective geographic Group and the financial results of our recycling brokerage business and electronics recycling services are included as part of our Other operations. We have reflected the impact of these changes for all periods presented to provide financial information that consistently reflects our current approach to managing our geographic Group operations. Refer to Note 21 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion about our reportable segments. Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions In preparing our financial statements, we make numerous estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting for and recognition and disclosure of assets, liabilities, equity, revenues and expenses. We must make these estimates and assumptions because certain information that we use is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or simply cannot be readily calculated based on generally accepted methods. In some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. In preparing our financial statements, the most difficult, subjective and complex estimates and the assumptions that deal with the greatest amount of uncertainty relate to our accounting for landfills, environmental remediation liabilities, asset impairments and self insurance reserves and recoveries. Actual results could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use in the preparation of our financial statements. Landfills Accounting for landfills requires that significant estimates and assumptions be made regarding (i) the cost to construct and develop each landfill asset; (ii) the estimated fair value of capping, closure and post closure asset retirement obligations, which must consider both the expected cost and timing of these activities; (iii) the determination of each landfills remaining permitted and expansion airspace; and (iv) the airspace associated with each final capping event. Landfill Costs We estimate the total cost to develop each of our landfill sites to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity. This estimate includes such costs as landfill liner material and installation, excavation for airspace, landfill leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems, environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, on site road construction and 24 Table of Contents other capital infrastructure costs. Additionally, landfill development includes all land purchases for landfill footprint and required landfill buffer property. The projection of these landfill costs is dependent, in part, on future events. The remaining amortizable basis of each landfill includes costs to develop a site to its remaining permitted and expansion capacity and includes amounts previously expended and capitalized, net of accumulated airspace amortization, and projections of future purchase and development costs. Final Capping Costs We estimate the cost for each final capping event based on the area to be finally capped and the capping materials and activities required. The estimates also consider when these costs would actually be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. Our engineering personnel allocate final landfill capping costs to specific capping events. The landfill capacity associated with each final capping event is then quantified and the final capping costs for each event are amortized over the related capacity associated with the event as waste is disposed of at the landfill. We review these costs annually, or more often if significant facts change. Changes in estimates, such as timing or cost of construction, for final capping events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a final capping event that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization. Closure and Post Closure Costs We base our estimates for closure and post closure costs on our interpretations of permit and regulatory requirements for closure and post closure maintenance and monitoring. The estimates for landfill closure and post closure costs also consider when the costs would actually be paid and factor in inflation and discount rates. The possibility of changing legal and regulatory requirements and the forward looking nature of these types of costs make any estimation or assumption less certain. Changes in estimates for closure and post closure events immediately impact the required liability and the corresponding asset. When the change in estimate relates to a fully consumed asset, the adjustment to the asset must be amortized immediately through expense. When the change in estimate relates to a landfill asset that has not been fully consumed, the adjustment to the asset is recognized in income prospectively as a component of landfill airspace amortization. Remaining Permitted Airspace Our engineers, in consultation with third party engineering consultants and surveyors, are responsible for determining remaining permitted airspace at our landfills. The remaining permitted airspace is determined by an annual survey, which is then used to compare the existing landfill topography to the expected final landfill topography. Expansion Airspace We include currently unpermitted expansion airspace in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace in certain circumstances. First, to include airspace associated with an expansion effort, we must generally expect the initial expansion permit application to be submitted within one year, and the final expansion permit to be received within five years. Second, we must believe the success of obtaining the expansion permit is likely, considering the following criteria: Personnel are actively working to obtain land use and local, state or provincial approvals for an expansion of an existing landfill; It is likely that the approvals will be received within the normal application and processing time periods for approvals in the jurisdiction in which the landfill is located; We have a legal right to use or obtain land to be included in the expansion plan; There are no significant known technical, legal, community, business, or political restrictions or similar issues that could impair the success of such expansion; Financial analysis has been completed, and the results demonstrate that the expansion has a positive financial and operational impact; and Airspace and related costs, including additional closure and post closure costs, have been estimated based on conceptual design. For unpermitted airspace to be initially included in our estimate of remaining permitted and expansion airspace, the expansion effort must meet all of the criteria listed above. These criteria are evaluated by our field 25 Table of Contents based engineers, accountants, managers and others to identify potential obstacles to obtaining the permits. Once the unpermitted airspace is included, our policy provides that airspace may continue to be included in remaining permitted and expansion airspace even if these criteria are no longer met, based on the facts and circumstances of a specific landfill. In these circumstances, continued inclusion must be approved through a landfill specific review process that includes approval of our Chief Financial Officer and a review by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. Of the 39 landfill sites with expansions at December 31, 2009, 14 landfills required the Chief Financial Officer to approve the inclusion of the unpermitted airspace. Nine of these landfills required approval by our Chief Financial Officer because of community or political opposition that could impede the expansion process. The remaining five landfills required approval primarily due to the permit application processes not meeting the one or five year requirements. When we include the expansion airspace in our calculations of remaining permitted and expansion airspace, we also include the projected costs for development, as well as the projected asset retirement cost related to final capping, and closure and post closure of the expansion in the amortization basis of the landfill. Once the remaining permitted and expansion airspace is determined in cubic yards, an airspace utilization factor, or AUF, is established to calculate the remaining permitted and expansion capacity in tons. The AUF is established using the measured density obtained from previous annual surveys and is then adjusted to account for settlement. The amount of settlement that is forecasted will take into account several site specific factors including current and projected mix of waste type, initial and projected waste density, estimated number of years of life remaining, depth of underlying waste, anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation of landfill leachate, and operating practices. In addition, the initial selection of the AUF is subject to a subsequent multi level review by our engineering group, and the AUF used is reviewed on a periodic basis and revised as necessary. Our historical experience generally indicates that the impact of settlement at a landfill is greater later in the life of the landfill when the waste placed at the landfill approaches its highest point under the permit requirements. After determining the costs and remaining permitted and expansion capacity at each of our landfills, we determine the per ton rates that will be expensed as waste is received and deposited at the landfill by dividing the costs by the corresponding number of tons. We calculate per ton amortization rates for each landfill for assets associated with each final capping event, for assets related to closure and post closure activities and for all other costs capitalized or to be capitalized in the future. These rates per ton are updated annually, or more often, as significant facts change. It is possible that actual results, including the amount of costs incurred, the timing of final capping, closure and post closure activities, our airspace utilization or the success of our expansion efforts, could ultimately turn out to be significantly different from our estimates and assumptions. To the extent that such estimates, or related assumptions, prove to be significantly different than actual results, lower profitability may be experienced due to higher amortization rates, or higher expenses; or higher profitability may result if the opposite occurs. Most significantly, if it is determined that the expansion capacity should no longer be considered in calculating the recoverability of the landfill asset, we may be required to recognize an asset impairment or incur significantly higher amortization expense. If it is determined that the likelihood of receiving an expansion permit has become remote, the capitalized costs related to the expansion effort are expensed immediately. Environmental Remediation Liabilities We are subject to an array of laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Under current laws and regulations, we may have liabilities for environmental damage caused by our operations, or for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired a site. These liabilities include potentially responsible party, or PRP, investigations, settlements, and certain legal and consultant fees, as well as costs directly associated with site investigation and clean up, such as materials, external contractor costs and incremental internal costs directly related to the remedy. We provide for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation and determine our estimated cost for the likely remedy based on a number of estimates and assumptions. 26 Table of Contents Where it is probable that a liability has been incurred, we estimate costs required to remediate sites based on site specific facts and circumstances. We routinely review and evaluate sites that require remediation, considering whether we were an owner, operator, transporter, or generator at the site, the amount and type of waste hauled to the site and the number of years we were associated with the site. Next, we review the same type of information with respect to other named and unnamed PRPs. Estimates of the cost for the likely remedy are then either developed using our internal resources or by third party environmental engineers or other service providers. Internally developed estimates are based on: Managements judgment and experience in remediating our own and unrelated parties sites; Information available from regulatory agencies as to costs of remediation; The number, financial resources and relative degree of responsibility of other PRPs who may be liable for remediation of a specific site; and The typical allocation of costs among PRPs unless the actual allocation has been determined. Asset Impairments Our long lived assets, including landfills and landfill expansions, are carried on our financial statements based on their cost less accumulated depreciation or amortization. We review the carrying value of our long lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. In order to assess whether a potential impairment exists, the assets carrying values are compared with their undiscounted expected future cash flows. Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment about factors such as general economic conditions and projected growth rates, and our estimates often vary from the cash flows eventually realized. Impairments are measured by comparing the fair value of the asset to its carrying value. Fair value is generally determined by considering (i) internally developed discounted projected cash flow analysis of the asset; (ii) actual third party valuations; and or (iii) information available regarding the current market environment for similar assets. If the fair value of an asset is determined to be less than the carrying amount of the asset, an impairment in the amount of the difference is recorded in the period that the events or changes in circumstances that indicated the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable occurred. These events or changes in circumstances are referred to as impairment indicators. There are other considerations for impairments of landfills and goodwill, as described below. Landfills Certain impairment indicators require significant judgment and understanding of the waste industry when applied to landfill development or expansion projects. For example, a regulator may initially deny a landfill expansion permit application though the expansion permit is ultimately granted. In addition, management may periodically divert waste from one landfill to another to conserve remaining permitted landfill airspace. Therefore, certain events could occur in the ordinary course of business and not necessarily be considered indicators of impairment of our landfill assets due to the unique nature of the waste industry. Goodwill At least annually, we assess whether goodwill is impaired. We assess whether an impairment exists by comparing the fair value of each operating segment to its carrying value, including goodwill. We use a combination of two valuation methods, a market approach and an income approach, to estimate the fair value of our operating segments. Fair value computed by these two methods is arrived at using a number of factors, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, comparable marketplace data and the cost of capital. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and to our judgment in applying them to this analysis. However, we believe that these two methods provide a reasonable approach to estimating the fair value of our operating segments. The market approach estimates fair value by measuring the aggregate market value of publicly traded companies with similar characteristics of our business as a multiple of their reported cash flows. We then apply that multiple to our operating segments cash flows to estimate their fair value. We believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate using valuation inputs from entities with operations and economic characteristics comparable to our operating segments. 27 Table of Contents The income approach is based on the long term projected future cash flows of our operating segments. We discount the estimated cash flows to present value using a weighted average cost of capital that considers factors such as the timing of the cash flows and the risks inherent in those cash flows. We believe that this approach is appropriate because it provides a fair value estimate based upon our operating segments expected long term performance considering the economic and market conditions that generally affect our business. Additional impairment assessments may be performed on an interim basis if we encounter events or changes in circumstances that would indicate that, more likely than not, the carrying value of goodwill has been impaired. Self Insurance Reserves and Recoveries We have retained a significant portion of the risks related to our health and welfare, automobile, general liability and workers compensation insurance programs. Our liabilities associated with the exposure for unpaid claims and associated expenses, including incurred but not reported losses, generally is estimated with the assistance of external actuaries and by factoring in pending claims and historical trends and data. Our estimated accruals for these liabilities could be significantly different than our ultimate obligations if variables such as the frequency or severity of future incidents differ significantly from our assumptions. Estimated insurance recoveries related to recorded liabilities are recorded as assets when we believe that the receipt of such amounts is probable. Results of Operations Operating Revenues Our operating revenues in 2009 were $11.8 billion, compared with $13.4 billion in 2008 and $13.3 billion in 2007. We manage and evaluate our operations primarily through our Eastern, Midwest, Southern, Western Groups, and our Wheelabrator Group, which includes our waste to energy facilities and independent power production plants, or IPPs. These five Groups are our reportable segments. Shown below (in millions) is the contribution to revenues during each year provided by our five Groups and our Other waste services: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Eastern $ 2,960 $ 3,319 $ 3,411 Midwest 2,855 3,267 3,289 Southern 3,328 3,740 3,737 Western 3,125 3,387 3,444 Wheelabrator 841 912 868 Other 628 897 832 Intercompany (1,946 ) (2,134 ) (2,271 ) Total $ 11,791 $ 13,388 $ 13,310 Our operating revenues generally come from fees charged for our collection, disposal, transfer, recycling and waste to energy services and from sales of commodities by our recycling and waste to energy operations. Revenues from our collection operations are influenced by factors such as collection frequency, type of collection equipment furnished, type and volume or weight of the waste collected, distance to the MRF or disposal facility and our disposal costs. Revenues from our landfill operations consist of tipping fees, which are generally based on the type and weight or volume of waste being disposed of at our disposal facilities. Fees charged at transfer stations are generally based on the weight or volume of waste deposited, taking into account our cost of loading, transporting and disposing of the solid waste at a disposal site. Recycling revenue generally consists of tipping fees and the sale of recyclable commodities to third parties. The fees we charge for our collection, disposal, transfer and recycling services generally include fuel surcharges, which are indexed to current market costs for fuel. Our waste to energy revenues, which are generated by our Wheelabrator Group, are based on the type and weight or volume of waste received at our waste to energy facilities and IPPs and amounts charged for the sale of energy and steam. Our Other revenues include our in plant services, landfill gas to energy operations, Port O Let services, street and parking lot sweeping services, portable self storage, fluorescent lamp recycling and healthcare solutions services. 28 Table of Contents Intercompany revenues between our operations have been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. The mix of operating revenues from our different services is reflected in the table below (in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Collection $ 7,980 $ 8,679 $ 8,714 Landfill 2,547 2,955 3,047 Transfer 1,383 1,589 1,654 Wheelabrator 841 912 868 Recycling 741 1,180 1,135 Other 245 207 163 Intercompany (1,946 ) (2,134 ) (2,271 ) Total $ 11,791 $ 13,388 $ 13,310 The following table provides details associated with the period to period change in revenues (dollars in millions) along with an explanation of the significant components of the current period changes: Period to Period Period to Period Change Change 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 As a % of As a % of Total Total Amount Company(a) Amount Company(a) Average yield(b) $ (528 ) (3.9 )% $ 644 4.9 % Volume (1,078 ) (8.1 ) (557 ) (4.2 ) Internal revenue growth (1,606 ) (12.0 ) 87 0.7 Acquisitions 97 0.7 117 0.9 Divestitures (37 ) (0.2 ) (130 ) (1.0 ) Foreign currency translation (51 ) (0.4 ) 4 $ (1,597 ) (11.9 )% $ 78 0.6 % (a) Calculated by dividing the amount of current year increase or decrease by the prior years total company revenue ($13,388 million and $13,310 million for 2009 and 2008, respectively) adjusted to exclude the impacts of current year divestitures ($37 million and $130 million for 2009 and 2008, respectively). (b) The amounts reported herein represent the changes in our revenue attributable to average yield for the total Company. We analyze the changes in average yield in terms of related business revenues in order to differentiate the changes in yield attributable to our pricing strategies from the changes that are caused by market driven price changes in commodities. The following table summarizes changes in revenues from average yield on a related business basis: 29 Table of Contents Period to Period Period to Period Change Change 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 As a % of As a % of Related Related Amount Business(i) Amount Business(i) Average yield: Collection, landfill and transfer $ 321 3.0 % $ 347 3.2 % Waste to energy disposal(ii) 2 0.5 3 0.7 Collection and disposal(ii) 323 2.9 350 3.1 Recycling commodities (447 ) (36.3 ) 81 6.9 Electricity(ii) (76 ) (21.3 ) 24 7.1 Fuel surcharges and mandated fees (328 ) (46.5 ) 189 36.5 Total $ (528 ) (3.9 ) $ 644 4.9 (i) Calculated by dividing the increase or decrease for the current year by the prior years related business revenue, adjusted to exclude the impacts of divestitures for the current year ($37 million and $130 million for 2009 and 2008, respectively). The table below summarizes the related business revenues for each year, adjusted to exclude the impacts of divestitures: Denominator 2009 2008 Related business revenues: Collection, landfill and transfer $ 10,622 $ 10,715 Waste to energy disposal 434 431 Collection and disposal 11,056 11,146 Recycling commodities 1,233 1,180 Electricity 356 336 Fuel surcharges and mandated fees 706 518 Total Company $ 13,351 $ 13,180 (ii) Average revenue growth from yield from Collection and disposal excludes all electricity related revenues generated by our Wheelabrator Group, which are reported as Electricity revenues. Before 2009, we reported electricity related revenues from Wheelabrators IPPs as Electricity and electricity related revenues from Wheelabrators waste to energy facilities in Waste to energy. Beginning in 2009, all of Wheelabrators electricity related revenues are included in Electricity and only the disposal revenues are included in Waste to energy disposal. We have reflected the impact of this change for all years presented to provide information that consistently reflects our current approach. Our revenues decreased $1,597 million, or 11.9%, in 2009 as compared with 2008. A substantial portion of these declines can be attributed to market factors, including (i) recyclable commodity prices; (ii) lower fuel prices, which reduced revenue provided by our fuel surcharge program; (iii) the effect of lower electricity prices on our waste to energy business; and (iv) foreign currency translation on revenues from our Canadian operations. In addition, revenues continue to decline due to lower volumes, which have resulted from the slowdown in the economy. In 2009, economic pressures continued to significantly reduce consumer and business spending, which meant less waste was being generated. However, our revenue growth from average yield on our collection and disposal operations was $323 million in 2009 which demonstrates our commitment to pricing even in the current economic environment. Towards the end of 2009, we began to see the trend of volume decline moderate. For the fourth quarter of 2009, our revenue decline was $102 million, or 3.3% as compared with the fourth quarter of 2008. This improvement, as 30 Table of Contents compared with our full year revenue decline of 11.9%, is primarily driven by the steady commodity price recovery trend that occurred throughout 2009 as compared with the severe decline in commodity pricing and demand in the fourth quarter of 2008. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2009, we began to see our year over year volume comparisons improve in our collection and disposal businesses. The following provides further details associated with our period to period change in revenues. Average yield Collection and disposal average yield This measure reflects the effect on our revenue from the pricing activities of our collection, transfer, landfill and waste to energy disposal operations, exclusive of volume changes. Revenue growth from collection and disposal average yield includes not only base rate changes and environmental and service fee increases, but also (i) certain average price changes related to the overall mix of services, which are due to both the types of services provided and the geographic locations where our services are provided; (ii) changes in average price from new and lost business; and (iii) price decreases to retain customers. In both 2009 and 2008, the increases in revenues from yield were driven by our collection operations, which experienced substantial yield growth in all lines of business and in every geographic operating group, primarily as a result of our continued focus on pricing initiatives, including various fee increases. As discussed below, increased collection revenues due to pricing have been more than offset by revenue declines from lower collection volumes. However, increased revenue growth from yield on base business and a focus on controlling variable costs has consistently provided margin improvements in our collection line of business. In addition to the revenue growth from yield in the collection line of business, we experienced increases in revenues from yield at our landfills and our transfer stations due to our continued focus on pricing activities. Revenues from our environmental fee, which are included in average yield on collection and disposal, increased by $37 million and $60 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Environmental fee revenues totaled $218 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared with $181 million in 2008 and $121 million in 2007. Recycling commodities For the first nine months of 2008, record high commodity prices favorably impacted our revenue growth. Then, during the fourth quarter of 2008, we saw a rapid decline in commodity prices due to a significant decrease in the demand for commodities both domestically and internationally. Commodity demand and prices continued to be weak in the first nine months of 2009 as compared with record high commodity prices experienced through September of 2008. However, market prices for recyclable commodities are recovering and prices have increased significantly from the record lows experienced in late 2008 and early 2009. While commodity prices are still significantly less than the levels seen in 2007 and the first nine months of 2008, the current price recovery trend contributed to revenue growth in the fourth quarter of 2009 and is expected to contribute to revenue growth in the coming year. Electricity The changes in revenue from yield provided by our waste to energy business are largely due to fluctuations in rates charged for electricity under our power purchase contracts that generally correlate with natural gas prices in the markets where we operate. In 2009, we experienced a decline of $76 million in revenue from yield at our waste to energy facilities due to the falling electricity prices. During 2009, approximately 34% of the electricity revenue at our waste to energy facilities was subject to current market rates, which is an increase from 18% during 2008. Our waste to energy facilities exposure to market price volatility is increasing as more long term contracts expire. In 2008, we saw an increase of $24 million in revenue from yield provided by our waste to energy business. This increase was largely due to annual rate increases for electricity under long term contracts and favorable energy market pricing. Fuel surcharges and mandated fees Revenue generated by our fuel surcharge program decreased by $328 million and increased by $189 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The fluctuation is directly attributable to the fluctuation in the crude oil index prices we use for our fuel surcharge program. 31 Table of Contents The mandated fees included in this line item are primarily related to the pass through of fees and taxes assessed by various state, county and municipal governmental agencies at our landfills and transfer stations. These mandated fees have not had a significant impact on the comparability of revenues for the periods included in the table above. Volume Our collection business accounted for $622 million of the total volume decrease in 2009. Our industrial collection operations experienced the most significant revenue declines due to lower volumes primarily as a result of the continued slowdown in both residential and commercial construction activities across the United States. Our commercial and residential collection lines of business tend to be more recession resistant than our other lines of business. However, we still experienced some commercial and residential collection volume declines in 2009 that we attribute to the recessionary economic environment, as well as to pricing and competition. In 2009, we also experienced a 16% decline in third party revenue due to volume at our landfills. This decrease was most significant in our more economically sensitive special waste and construction and demolition waste streams, although municipal solid waste streams at our landfills have also decreased. Lower third party volumes in our transfer station operations also caused revenue declines and can generally be attributed to economic conditions and the effects of pricing and competition. Lower volumes in our recycling operations caused declines in revenues of $74 million in 2009. These decreases are attributable to the drastic decline in the domestic and international demand for recyclables in late 2008. Demand for recyclable commodities has recovered throughout 2009, although it has yet to compare favorably to the levels we experienced in advance of the market shift in the fourth quarter of 2008. In 2008, revenue declines due to lower volumes were driven by lower collection volumes and, to a lesser extent, lower transfer station and third party disposal volumes. Declines in revenues from volumes in these lines of business were most significantly affected by (i) our focus on improving margins through increased pricing; and (ii) economic conditions, which particularly affected our industrial collection line of business. Revenue declines attributable to lower volumes also affected our recycling operations due to the rapid decline in demand for recyclable commodities experienced during the fourth quarter of 2008 Acquisitions and divestitures Revenues increased $97 million and $117 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, due to acquisitions, principally in the collection, transfer and recycling businesses, although we also made acquisitions starting in 2008 in our Other business as we focused on entering new, complementary lines of business. Divestitures accounted for decreased revenues of $37 million and $130 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These divestitures were primarily comprised of collection operations and, to a lesser extent, transfer station and recycling operations. Beginning in the second quarter of 2008, revenue growth from acquisitions exceeded revenue declines from divestitures, a trend we had not seen in over two years. This change reflects our shift in focus from divesting underperforming operations to acquiring businesses. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses include (i) labor and related benefits (excluding labor costs associated with maintenance and repairs discussed below), which include salaries and wages, bonuses, related payroll taxes, insurance and benefits costs and the costs associated with contract labor; (ii) transfer and disposal costs, which include tipping fees paid to third party disposal facilities and transfer stations; (iii) maintenance and repairs relating to equipment, vehicles and facilities and related labor costs; (iv) subcontractor costs, which include the costs of independent haulers who transport waste collected by us to disposal facilities and are affected by variables such as volumes, distance and fuel prices; (v) costs of goods sold, which are primarily the rebates paid to suppliers associated with recycling commodities; (vi) fuel costs, which represent the costs of fuel and oil to operate our truck fleet and landfill operating equipment; (vii) disposal and franchise fees and taxes, which include landfill taxes, municipal franchise fees, host community fees and royalties; (viii) landfill operating costs, which include interest accretion on asset retirement and environmental remediation obligations, leachate and methane collection and treatment, landfill remediation costs and other landfill site costs; (ix) risk management costs, which include workers compensation and insurance and claim costs; and (x) other operating costs, which include, among other costs, equipment and facility rent and property taxes. 32 Table of Contents Our operating expenses decreased by $1,225 million, or 14.5% when comparing 2009 with 2008 and increased $64 million, or 0.8% when comparing 2008 with 2007. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenues were 61.4% in 2009, 63.2% in 2008 and 63.1% in 2007. The changes in our operating expenses during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 can largely be attributed to the following: Volume declines and divestitures Throughout 2009 and 2008, we experienced volume declines as a result of (i) the economy; (ii) pricing and competition; and (iii) divestitures. We continue to manage our fixed costs and reduce our variable costs as we experience volume declines, and have achieved significant cost savings as a result. These cost decreases have benefited each of the operating cost categories identified in the table below. Changes in market prices for recyclable commodities Market prices for recyclable commodities declined sharply when comparing 2009 with 2008. This significant decrease in market prices was the driver of the decrease in cost of goods sold during 2009. Market prices for recyclable commodities climbed robustly through most of 2008, achieving levels during the first nine months of 2008 that had not been seen in several years. However, during the fourth quarter of 2008, the market prices and demand for recyclable commodities declined sharply. The resulting near historic low prices and reduced demand carried into the first quarter of 2009 and, although prices have steadily increased during 2009, they remained significantly below prior year levels throughout most of 2009. Fuel price changes Lower market prices for fuel caused decreases in both our direct fuel costs and our subcontractor costs for the year ended December 31, 2009. On average, diesel fuel prices decreased 35%, from $3.81 per gallon for 2008 to $2.46 per gallon for 2009. Diesel fuel prices varied significantly in 2008, reaching a record high price of $4.76 per gallon in July and falling to a three year low of $2.33 per gallon by the end of the year. On average, diesel fuel prices increased 32% in 2008 from $2.88 per gallon in 2007 to $3.81 per gallon. Changes in risk free interest rates We recognized $35 million in favorable adjustments during 2009 compared with $33 million in unfavorable adjustments during 2008 and $8 million in unfavorable adjustments during 2007 due to changes in United States Treasury rates, which are used to estimate the present value of our environmental remediation obligations and recovery assets. Over the course of 2009, the discount rate we use increased from 2.25% to 3.75%. During 2008, the discount rate we use declined from 4.00% to 2.25%. During 2007, the discount rate we use declined from 4.75% to 4.00%. These adjustments have been reflected in the landfill operating costs category in the table below. Canadian exchange rates When comparing the average exchange rate for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Canadian exchange rate weakened by 7%, which decreased our expenses in all operating cost categories. The weakening of the Canadian dollar decreased our total operating expenses by $40 million for 2009 as compared with 2008. Changes in currency exchange rates had very little impact when comparing the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. Acquisitions and growth initiatives In both 2009 and 2008, we have experienced cost increases attributable to recently acquired businesses and, to a lesser extent, our various growth and business development initiatives. These cost increases have affected each of the operating cost categories identified in the table below. 33 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the major components of our operating expenses, including the impact of foreign currency translation, for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions): Period to Period to 2009 Period Change 2008 Period Change 2007 Labor and related benefits $ 2,260 $ (160 ) (6.6 )% $ 2,420 $ 8 0.3 % $ 2,412 Transfer and disposal costs 937 (111 ) (10.6 ) 1,048 (100 ) (8.7 ) 1,148 Maintenance and repairs 1,033 (41 ) (3.8 ) 1,074 (5 ) (0.5 ) 1,079 Subcontractor costs 700 (201 ) (22.3 ) 901 (1 ) (0.1 ) 902 Cost of goods sold 488 (324 ) (39.9 ) 812 43 5.6 769 Fuel 414 (301 ) (42.1 ) 715 134 23.1 581 Disposal and franchise fees and taxes 578 (30 ) (4.9 ) 608 6 1.0 602 Landfill operating costs 222 (69 ) (23.7 ) 291 30 11.5 261 Risk management 211 2 1.0 209 (8 ) (3.7 ) 217 Other 398 10 2.6 388 (43 ) (10.0 ) 431 $ 7,241 $ (1,225 ) (14.5 )% $ 8,466 $ 64 0.8 % $ 8,402 The period to period changes for each category of operating expenses are discussed below. Labor and related benefits When comparing 2009 with 2008, the cost declines were generally a result of (i) headcount and overtime reductions related to volume declines; (ii) effects of foreign currency translation; (iii) a benefit from the restructuring we initiated in January of 2009, although most of these savings are reflected in our selling, general and administrative expenses; and (iv) cost savings provided by our operational improvement initiatives. These cost savings have been offset, in part, by higher hourly wages due to merit increases; and (ii) increased accrued bonus expense as our performance against targets established by our annual incentive plans was stronger than it had been in 2008. When comparing 2008 with 2007, wages increased due to annual merit adjustments, although these higher costs were more than offset by headcount reductions due to operational efficiencies and divestitures. We experienced additional overtime and other labor costs due to severe winter weather conditions during the first quarter of 2008 in our Midwest Group. Our accrued bonus expenses were lower in 2008 because our performance against targets established by our incentive plans was not as strong as it had been in 2007. The comparability of our labor and related benefits costs for the periods presented has also been affected by costs incurred for the resolution of labor disputes with certain collective bargaining units. Such costs increased our 2009 expense by $9 million and our 2008 expense by $42 million. The costs incurred during 2009 and 2008 were primarily associated with the withdrawal of certain bargaining units from underfunded multi employer pension plans. Transfer and disposal costs During 2009 and 2008, these cost decreases were a result of volume declines and our continued focus on reducing disposal costs associated with our third party disposal volumes by improving internalization. The 2009 decrease was also partially due to foreign currency translation. Maintenance and repairs During 2009, these costs declined as a result of volume declines and various fleet initiatives that have favorably affected our maintenance, parts and supplies costs. These decreases have been offset partially by cost increases due to differences in the timing and scope of planned maintenance projects at our waste to energy and landfill gas to energy facilities. Subcontractor costs During 2009, these cost decreases are a result of volume declines, a significant decrease in diesel fuel prices and the effects of foreign currency translation. Cost of goods sold The 2009 and 2008 cost changes are principally due to changes in the recycling commodity rebates we pay to our customers as a result of changes in market prices for recyclable commodities discussed above and volume declines. 34 Table of Contents Fuel The cost changes for 2009 and 2008 are a result of changes in market prices for diesel fuel discussed above and volume declines. Disposal and franchise fees and taxes These cost decreases are principally a result of volume declines, although the comparability of the periods presented is also affected by the favorable resolution of a disposal tax matter in our Eastern Group, which reduced these expenses by $18 million during 2007 and $3 million during 2008. Landfill operating costs The changes in this category for the years presented was primarily driven by the changes in U.S. Treasury rates used to estimate the present value of our environmental remediation obligations and recovery assets. The impacts of these rate changes are discussed above. Risk management Our consistent risk management costs reflect the success we have had over the last several years in managing these costs, which can be primarily attributed to our continued focus on safety and reduced accident and injury rates. For 2008, the decrease in expense was largely associated with reduced actuarial projections of workers compensation costs and reduced auto and general liability claims for current claim periods. Other The comparison of these costs has been significantly affected by the following: In 2009, we had a significant increase in the property taxes assessed for one of our waste to energy facilities. In 2008 and 2007, we had relatively higher gains recognized on the sales of assets due to our focus on identifying and selling under utilized assets in order to increase our efficiency. In 2007, our Western Group incurred Other operating expenses of $33 million for security, labor, lodging, travel and other costs incurred as a result of labor disruptions in Oakland and Los Angeles, California. In 2007, we incurred $21 million of lease termination costs associated with the purchase of one of our independent power production plants that had previously been operated through a lease agreement. Selling, General and Administrative Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist of (i) labor costs, which include salaries, bonuses, related insurance and benefits, contract labor, payroll taxes and equity based compensation; (ii) professional fees, which include fees for consulting, legal, audit and tax services; (iii) provision for bad debts, which includes allowances for uncollectible customer accounts and collection fees; and (iv) other general and administrative expenses, which include, among other costs, facility related expenses, voice and data telecommunication, advertising, travel and entertainment, rentals, postage and printing. In addition, the financial impacts of litigation settlements generally are included in our Other selling, general and administrative expenses. The following table summarizes the major components of our selling, general and administrative expenses for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions): Period to Period to 2009 Period Change 2008 Period Change 2007 Labor and related benefits $ 775 $ (78 ) (9.1 )% $ 853 $ 18 2.2 % $ 835 Professional fees 167 (1 ) (0.6 ) 168 8 5.0 160 Provision for bad debts 54 (3 ) (5.3 ) 57 8 16.3 49 Other 368 (31 ) (7.8 ) 399 11 2.8 388 $ 1,364 $ (113 ) (7.7 )% $ 1,477 $ 45 3.1 % $ 1,432 Significant changes in our selling, general, and administrative expenses during the reported periods are as summarized below: Labor and related benefits In 2009, our labor and related benefits costs have declined because we have been realizing benefits associated with our January 2009 restructuring The comparability of our labor and related benefits expenses in 2009 has also been affected by a significant decrease in non cash compensation costs associated with the equity based compensation provided for by our long term incentive plans as a result of (i) a decline in the grant date fair value of our equity awards; (ii) lower performance against established targets for certain awards than in the 35 Table of Contents prior year; and (iii) the reversal of all compensation costs previously recognized for our 2008 performance share units based on a determination that it is no longer probable that the targets established for that award will be met. This decrease in non cash compensation costs was offset, in part, by higher costs associated with our salary deferral plan, the costs of which are directly affected by equity market conditions. Additionally, contract labor costs incurred for various Corporate support functions were lower during 2009 than in 2008. The 2008 increase in labor and related benefits costs was primarily attributable to (i) higher salaries and hourly wages due to merit increases; (ii) higher compensation costs due to an increase in headcount driven by an increase in the size of our sales force and our focus on our people and business development initiatives; and (iii) higher non cash compensation costs associated with the equity based compensation provided for by our long term incentive plans. Additionally, we also experienced higher insurance and benefit costs. These increases were offset partially by lower bonus expenses accrued in 2008 because our performance against targets established by our incentive plan was not as strong as it had been in 2007. Professional fees In 2009, we experienced a slight decrease in professional fees due primarily to lower consulting fees related to our various strategic initiatives as compared with 2008. This decrease was largely offset by higher legal fees and expenses in 2009. In 2008, our professional fees increased year over year due to legal and consulting costs we incurred related to (i) the support of a proposed acquisition in 2008; and (ii) our business development initiatives. These increases were partially offset by lower consulting costs in 2008 related to various strategic initiatives during 2007, including the support and development of the SAP waste and recycling revenue management system, which we discontinued development of in early 2008. Provision for bad debts The $3 million decline in our provision for bad debts in 2009 can be generally attributed to (i) the decrease in our revenues and accounts receivable due to current economic conditions and market factors; and (ii) our continued focus on the management and collection of our receivables. However, in 2008, our provision for bad debts increased $8 million as the effects of the weakened economy increased collection risks associated with certain customers. Other During 2009, our costs associated with advertising, meetings, seminars, and travel and entertainment declined as a result of our increased efforts to reduce controllable spending. These lower costs were due in part to the recent restructuring. This decline was offset partially by higher legal expenses. In 2008, we were focusing on our sales, marketing and other initiatives and identifying new customers, which resulted in increases in our advertising costs and travel and entertainment. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization includes (i) depreciation of property and equipment, including assets recorded for capital leases, on a straight line basis from three to 50 years; (ii) amortization of landfill costs, including those incurred and all estimated future costs for landfill development, construction and asset retirement costs arising from closure and post closure, on a units of consumption method as landfill airspace is consumed over the estimated remaining permitted and expansion capacity of a site; (iii) amortization of landfill asset retirement costs arising from final capping obligations on a units of consumption method as airspace is consumed over the estimated capacity associated with each final capping event; and (iv) amortization of intangible assets with a definite life, either using a 150% declining balance approach or a straight line basis over the definitive terms of the related agreements, which are generally from two to ten years depending on the type of asset. 36 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the components of our depreciation and amortization costs for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions): Period to Period to Period Period 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Depreciation of tangible property and equipment $ 779 $ (6 ) (0.8 )% $ 785 $ (11 ) (1.4 )% $ 796 Amortization of landfill airspace 358 (71 ) (16.6 ) 429 (11 ) (2.5 ) 440 Amortization of intangible assets 29 5 20.8 24 1 4.3 23 $ 1,166 $ (72 ) (5.8 )% $ 1,238 $ (21 ) (1.7 )% $ 1,259 In both 2009 and 2008, the decrease in depreciation of tangible property and equipment is largely due to (i) components of enterprise wide software becoming fully depreciated; and (ii) our focus on retiring or selling under utilized assets. The decrease in amortization of landfill airspace expense in 2009 and 2008 is largely due to volume declines as a result of (i) the slowdown in the economy; (ii) our pricing program and competition, both of which have significantly reduced our collection volumes; and (iii) the re direction of waste to third party disposal facilities in certain regions due to either the closure of our own landfills or the current capacity constraints of landfills where we are working on procuring an expansion permit. The comparability of our amortization of landfill airspace for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007 has also been affected by adjustments recorded in each year for changes in estimates related to our final capping, closure and post closure obligations. During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, landfill amortization expense was reduced by $14 million, $3 million and $17 million, respectively, for the effects of these changes in estimates. In each year, the majority of the reduced expense resulting from the revised estimates was associated with final capping changes that were generally the result of (i) concerted efforts to improve the operating efficiencies of our landfills and volume declines, both of which have allowed us to delay spending for final capping activities; (ii) effectively managing the cost of final capping material and construction; or (iii) landfill expansions that resulted in reduced or deferred final capping costs. Restructuring In January 2009, we took steps to further streamline our organization by (i) consolidating our Market Areas; (ii) integrating the management of our recycling operations with our other solid waste business; and (iii) realigning our Corporate organization with this new structure in order to provide support functions more efficiently. Our principal operations are managed through our Groups. Each of our four geographic Groups had been further divided into 45 Market Areas. As a result of our restructuring, the Market Areas were consolidated into 25 Areas. We found that our larger Market Areas generally were able to achieve efficiencies through economies of scale that were not present in our smaller Market Areas, and this reorganization has allowed us to lower costs and to continue to standardize processes and improve productivity. In addition, during the first quarter of 2009, responsibility for the oversight of day to day recycling operations at our material recovery facilities and secondary processing facilities was transferred from our Waste Management Recycle America, or WMRA, organization to our four geographic Groups. By integrating the management of our recycling facilities operations with our other solid waste business, we are able to more efficiently provide comprehensive environmental solutions to our customers. In addition, as a result of this realignment, we have significantly reduced the overhead costs associated with managing this portion of our business and have increased the geographic Groups focus on maximizing the profitability and return on invested capital of our business on an integrated basis. This restructuring eliminated over 1,500 employee positions throughout the Company. During 2009, we recognized $50 million of pre tax charges associated with this restructuring, of which $41 million were related to employee severance and benefit costs. The remaining charges were primarily related to lease obligations that we will continue to incur over the remaining lease term for certain operating lease agreements. 37 Table of Contents (Income) Expense from Divestitures, Asset Impairments and Unusual Items The following table summarizes the major components of (Income) expense from divestitures, asset impairments and unusual items for the year ended December 31 for the respective periods (in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (Income) expense from divestitures (including held for sale impairments) $ $ (33 ) $ (59 ) Asset impairments (excluding held for sale impairments) 83 4 12 $ 83 $ (29 ) $ (47 ) (Income) expense from divestitures (including held for sale impairments) The net gains from divestitures during 2008 and 2007 were a result of our focus on selling underperforming businesses. In 2008, these gains were primarily related to the divestiture of underperforming collection operations in our Southern Group; and in 2007, the gains were related to the divestiture of underperforming collection, transfer and recycling operations in our Eastern, Western and Southern Groups. Asset impairments (excluding held for sale impairments) Through December 31, 2008, we had capitalized $70 million of accumulated costs associated with the development of our waste and recycling revenue management system. A significant portion of these costs was specifically associated with the purchase of the license of SAPs waste and recycling revenue management software and the efforts required to develop and configure that software for our use. After a failed pilot implementation of the software in one of our smallest Market Areas, the development efforts associated with the SAP revenue management system were suspended in 2007. As disclosed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in March 2008, we filed suit against SAP and are currently scheduled for trial in May 2010. During 2009, we determined to enhance and improve our existing revenue management system and not pursue alternatives associated with the development and implementation of a revenue management system that would include the licensed SAP software. Accordingly, after careful consideration of the failures of the SAP software, we determined to abandon any alternative that would include the use of the SAP software. The determination to abandon the SAP software as our revenue management system resulted in a non cash charge of $51 million, $49 million of which was recognized during the first quarter of 2009 and $2 million of which was recognized during the fourth quarter of 2009. We recognized an additional $32 million of impairment charges during 2009, $27 million of which was recognized by the West Group during the fourth quarter of 2009 to fully impair a landfill in California as a result of a change in our expectations for the future operations of the landfill. The remaining impairment charges were primarily attributable to a charge required to write down our investments in certain portable self storage operations to their fair value as a result of our acquisition of a controlling financial interest in those operations. During 2008, we recognized a $4 million impairment charge, primarily as a result of a decision to close a landfill in our Southern Group. During 2007, we recognized $12 million in impairment charges related to two landfills in our Southern Group. The impairments were necessary as a result of the re evaluation of our business alternatives for one landfill and the expiration of a contract that we had expected would be renewed that had significantly contributed to the volumes for the second landfill. 38 Table of Contents Income From Operations by Reportable Segment The following table summarizes income from operations by reportable segment for the years ended December 31 (dollars in millions): Period to Period to Period Period 2009 Change 2008 Change 2007 Reportable segments: Eastern $ 483 $ (40 ) (7.6 )% $ 523 $ (27 ) (4.9 )% $ 550 Midwest 450 (25 ) (5.3 ) 475 (49 ) (9.4 ) 524 Southern 768 (104 ) (11.9 ) 872 46 5.6 826 Western 521 (91 ) (14.9 ) 612 (6 ) (1.0 ) 618 Wheelabrator 235 (88 ) (27.2 ) 323 31 10.6 292 Other (136 ) (76 ) * (60 ) (22 ) * (38 ) Corporate and other (434 ) 77 (15.1 ) (511 ) 7 (1.4 ) (518 ) Total $ 1,887 $ (347 ) (15.5 )% $ 2,234 $ (20 ) (0.9 )% $ 2,254 * Percentage change does not provide a meaningful comparison. Reportable segments The most significant items affecting the results of operations of our four geographic Groups during the three year period ended December 31, 2009 are summarized below: During 2009 and 2008, each Group experienced declines in revenues due to lower volumes, resulting in decreased income from operations. The volume declines were generally the result of the significant downturn in the overall economic environment, particularly in our industrial collection line of business, which has been affected by the sharp decline in residential and commercial construction across the United States. Significantly lower recycling commodity prices in 2009 as compared with 2008 had an unfavorable effect on each of the four geographic Groups results. During the fourth quarter of 2008, commodity prices dropped sharply from the prices we experienced throughout 2007 and the first nine months of 2008. This decline was a result of a significant decrease in the demand for commodities both domestically and internationally. The resulting near historic low prices and reduced demand carried into 2009 and, although prices have steadily recovered, they remained significantly below the levels of the prior two years. When comparing 2008 to 2007, the significant decline in commodity prices that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2008 resulted in operating losses that more than offset the increases in operating income generated during the first nine months of 2008. During 2009, we recorded $50 million of charges associated with our January 2009 restructuring. During 2008 and 2007, we recorded restructuring charges of $2 million and $10 million, respectively. Refer to Note 12 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to the impact of these charges on each of our reportable segments. The negative impact of these factors has been partially offset by the favorable effects of (i) increased revenue growth from yield on our collection and disposal business as a result of our pricing strategies, particularly in our collection operations; and (ii) cost savings attributed to our January 2009 restructuring, our continued focus on controlling costs through operating efficiencies, and our increased focus on reducing controllable selling, general and administrative expenses, particularly for travel and entertainment during 2009. Other significant items affecting the comparability of each Groups results of operations for years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 are summarized below: Eastern During 2009, the Group recognized (i) an $18 million increase in revenues and income from operations associated with an oil and gas lease at one of our landfills; and (ii) a $9 million charge related to bargaining unit employees in New Jersey agreeing to our proposal to withdraw them from an underfunded, multi employer pension fund. During 2008, the Groups operating income was negatively affected by a 39 Table of Contents $14 million charge related to the withdrawal of certain collective bargaining units from underfunded multi employer pension plans. The Groups operating income for 2007 was favorably affected by (i) net divestiture gains of $33 million; and (ii) an $18 million decrease in disposal fees and taxes due to the favorable resolution of a disposal tax matter. Midwest During 2009, the Groups operating results were favorably affected by a $10 million reduction in landfill amortization expense as a result of changes in certain estimates related to final capping, closure and post closure obligations. The Groups 2008 operating results were negatively affected by $44 million of additional operating expenses primarily incurred as a result of a labor dispute in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Included in the labor dispute expenses are $32 million in charges related to the withdrawal of certain of the Groups bargaining units from underfunded multi employer pension plans. In addition, the Group experienced unfavorable weather conditions in the first quarter of 2008. Additionally, when comparing the average exchange rate for 2009 with 2008, the Canadian exchange rate weakened by 7%, which decreased the Groups income from operations. The effects of foreign currency translation were the most significant to this Group because substantially all of our Canadian operations are managed by our Midwest organization. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates did not have a significant impact on the comparison of 2008 with 2007. Southern During 2008, the Groups operating income was favorably affected by $29 million of divestiture gains, offset, in part, by a $3 million landfill impairment charge. During 2007, the Group recorded $12 million of impairment charges attributable to two of its landfills. These charges were largely offset by gains on divestitures of $11 million. Western The Groups 2009 income from operations includes the recognition of an impairment charge of $27 million as a result of a change in expectations for the future operations of a landfill in California, which was offset, in part, by the recognition of a $6 million gain associated with the sale of water rights at a landfill. During 2008, the Group recognized a $6 million gain primarily related to the sale of surplus real estate. In 2007, labor disputes negatively affected the Groups operating results by $37 million, principally as a result of Operating expenses incurred for security, deployment and lodging costs for replacement workers. Gains on divestitures of operations were $16 million for 2007. Wheelabrator The comparability of the Groups 2009 income from operations with the prior years has been significantly affected by (i) a decline in market prices for electricity, which had a more significant impact on the Groups results in 2009 due to the expiration of several long term energy contracts and short term pricing arrangements; (ii) an increase in costs for international and domestic business development activities; and (iii) an increase in Operating expenses of $11 million as a result of a significant increase in the property taxes assessed for one of our waste to energy facilities. Exposure to current electricity market prices increased from 18% of total electricity production in 2008 to 34% in 2009. The Groups exposure to current electricity market price volatility is expected to continue to grow to about 50% by the end of 2010 as several long term contracts are set to expire next year. The Groups 2008 operating results were favorably affected by increases in market rates for energy during the second half of 2008, while the Groups 2007 operating results were unfavorably affected by a $21 million charge for the early termination of a lease agreement. The early termination was due to the Groups purchase of an independent power production plant that it had previously operated through a lease agreement. Significant items affecting the comparability of the remaining components of our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 are summarized below: Other The unfavorable change in 2009 operating results compared with 2008 is largely due to (i) the effect that the previously discussed lower recycling commodity prices had on our recycling brokerage activities; (ii) an increase in costs being incurred to support the identification and development of new lines of business that will complement our core business; (iii) the unfavorable impact lower energy prices during 2009 had on our landfill gas to energy operations; and (iv) certain year end adjustments recorded in consolidation related to our reportable segments that were not included in the measure of segment income from operations used to assess their performance for the periods disclosed. 40 Table of Contents The unfavorable change in operating results in 2008 when compared with 2007 is the result of (i) the unfavorable effect that the previously discussed fourth quarter of 2008 sharp drop in recycling commodity prices had on our recycling brokerage activities; and (ii) costs being incurred to support our increased focus on the identification and development of new lines of business that will complement our core business. Corporate and Other Significant items affecting the comparability of expenses for the periods presented include: the recognition of $34 million of favorable adjustments during 2009 by our closed sites management group due to increases in U.S. Treasury rates used to estimate the present value of our environmental remediation obligations and environmental remediation recovery assets, while in 2008 and 2007, the same group recognized charges to landfill operating costs of $32 million and $8 million, respectively, due to declines in U.S. Treasury rates during those periods; a significant decline in Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2009 resulting from workforce reductions associated with the January 2009 restructuring, increased efforts to reduce our controllable spending and lower equity compensation costs; $51 million of non cash abandonment charges recognized during 2009 associated with the determination that we would not pursue alternatives associated with the development and implementation of a revenue management system that would include the licensed SAP software; 2008 cost decreases attributable to lower risk management expenses due to reduced actuarial projections of claim losses for workers compensation and auto and general liability claims and lower bonus expense due to relatively weak performance against established targets offset, in part, by costs incurred for a proposed acquisition; restructuring charges of $9 million in 2009 and $6 million in 2007; and employee healthcare coverage expenses in the third quarter of 2007 due to unusually high claims activity. Interest Income and Expense Our interest expense was $426 million in 2009, $455 million in 2008, and $521 million in 2007. Interest income was $13 million in 2009, $19 million in 2008, and $47 million in 2007. The decreases in interest income and expense for the periods presented are primarily attributable to significant declines in market interest rates. Interest expense Lower market interest rates have increased the benefits to interest expense provided by our active interest rate swap agreements and reduced the interest expense associated with our tax exempt bonds and our Canadian Credit Facility. The impacts of each of these items on our interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 are summarized below: Interest rate swaps We use interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to changes in market interest rates. The impacts to interest expense of our interest rate swaps are primarily related to (i) net periodic settlements of current interest on our active interest rate swaps and (ii) the amortization of previously terminated interest rate swap agreements as adjustments to interest expense. The following table summarizes the impact of periodic settlements of active swap agreements and the impact of terminated swap agreements on our results of operations (in millions): (Increase) Decrease to Interest Expense Due to Hedge Years Ended December 31, Accounting for Interest Rate Swaps 2009 2008 2007 Periodic settlements of active swap agreements(a) $ 46 $ 8 $ (48 ) Terminated swap agreements(b) 19 42 37 $ 65 $ 50 $ (11 ) (a) These amounts represent the net of our periodic variable rate interest obligations and the swap counterparties fixed rate interest obligations. Our variable rate obligations are based on a spread from the three month LIBOR. Three month LIBOR rates have varied significantly during the reported periods. During 41 Table of Contents 2007, the three month LIBOR exceeded 5.0% for most of the year, while during 2008 the rate was as high as 4.8% and as low as 1.4% and during 2009 rates were consistently below 1.0% for most of the year. (b) The amortization to interest expense of terminated swap agreements has decreased due to the maturity of certain previously hedged senior notes. In addition, in 2008, this amount included a $10 million net reduction in interest expense associated with the early retirement of $244 million of 8.75% senior notes. At December 31, 2009, $18 million (on a pre tax basis) of the carrying value of debt associated with terminated swap agreements is scheduled to be reclassified as a reduction to interest expense over the next twelve months. Tax exempt bonds Certain of our tax exempt bonds are subject to remarketing processes that result in periodic adjustments to the interest rates of the bonds. As of December 31, 2009, $817 million of our tax exempt bonds are variable rate instruments and re price on either a daily or weekly basis. We also have tax exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that end before the bonds scheduled maturities and $387 million of these bonds were re priced during 2009. These remarketing processes have significantly reduced the weighted average interest rates of our tax exempt bonds, which decreased from 4.5% at December 31, 2007 to 4.0% at December 31, 2008 and 3.4% at December 31, 2009. Canadian credit facility Borrowings outstanding under our Canadian Credit Facility have short term maturities, but are generally renewed at maturity under the terms of the facility, which results in the effective interest rates of the borrowings being reset to reflect current market interest rates. The weighted average interest rates of borrowings outstanding under our Canadian Credit Facility have decreased from 5.3% as of December 31, 2007 to 3.3% as of December 31, 2008 and 1.3% at December 31, 2009. In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company issued an additional $600 million of senior notes, which mature in 2039 and have a coupon rate of 6.125%. This debt issuance is expected to increase our average debt balances and our interest expense in 2010 as we currently expect to use the proceeds from the issuance to make various acquisitions and investments, rather than as a source for the repayment of existing debt. As of December 31, 2009, the Companys debt to total capital ratio was 57.4%, which continues to be consistent with our targeted long term debt to total capitalization of up to 60%. Interest income When comparing 2009 with 2008, the decrease in interest income is generally related to the decline in market interest rates, offset, in part, by an increase in our cash and cash equivalents balances throughout the year. As of December 31, 2009, our cash and cash equivalents balances exceeded $1 billion, due in large part to our $600 million issuance of senior notes during the fourth quarter 2009. We currently expect to utilize a significant portion of these funds for investments and acquisitions in the first half of 2010, including our anticipated purchase of a 40% equity investment in Shanghai Environment Group, which is discussed in Note 11 of our Consolidated Financial Statements, and additional investments in our waste to energy and solid waste businesses. When comparing 2008 with 2007, the decrease in interest income is primarily due to (i) significant declines in market interest rates; (ii) the recognition of $7 million in interest income during the first quarter of 2007 for the favorable resolution of a disposal tax matter in our Eastern Group; and (iii) a decrease in our average cash and investment balances. Equity in Net Losses of Unconsolidated Entities During 2007, our Equity in net losses of unconsolidated entities was primarily related to our equity interests in two coal based synthetic fuel production facilities. The equity losses generated by the facilities were offset by the tax benefits realized as a result of these investments as discussed below within Provision for income taxes. Provision for Income Taxes We recorded provisions for income taxes of $413 million in 2009, $669 million in 2008 and $540 million in 2007. These tax provisions resulted in an effective income tax rate of approximately 28.1%, 37.2% and 30.9% for each of the three years, respectively. At current income levels, we expect that our 2010 recurring effective tax rate will be approximately 38%. The comparability of our reported income taxes for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is primarily affected by (i) variations in our income before taxes; (ii) the utilization of capital loss carry back; (iii) the realization of state net operating loss and credit carry forwards; (iv) changes in effective 42 Table of Contents state and Canadian statutory tax rates; (v) differences in the impacts of tax audit settlements; and (vi) the impact of non conventional fuel tax credits, which expired at the end of 2007. The impacts of these items are summarized below: Utilization of capital loss carry back During 2009, we generated a capital loss from the liquidation of a foreign subsidiary and determined that the capital loss could be utilized to offset capital gains from prior years (specifically 2006 and 2007). The utilization of this capital loss resulted in a reduction to our 2009 Provision for income taxes of $65 million, representing a 4.4 percentage point reduction in our effective tax rate. State net operating loss and credit carry forwards During 2009 and 2008, we realized state net operating loss and credit carry forwards by reducing related valuation allowances, resulting in a reduction to our Provision for income taxes for those periods of $35 million and $3 million, respectively. No corresponding benefit was recognized in 2007. Canadian and state effective tax rates During 2009, the provincial tax rates in Ontario were reduced, which resulted in a $13 million tax benefit as a result of the revaluation of the related deferred tax balances. During 2007, the Canadian federal government enacted tax rate reductions, which resulted in a $30 million tax benefit for the revaluation of the related deferred tax balances. We did not have any comparable adjustments to Canadian rates during 2008. During 2009, our current state tax rate increased from 6.0% to 6.25% and our deferred state tax rate increased from 5.5% to 5.75%. During 2008, our current state tax rate increased from 5.5% to 6.0%. The increases in these rates was primarily due to changes in state law. Tax audit settlements Excluding the effects of interest income, the settlement of various tax audits resulted in reductions in income tax expense of $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, $26 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and $40 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Non conventional fuel tax credits Through December 31, 2007, non conventional fuel tax credits were derived from our landfills and our investments in two coal based, synthetic fuel production facilities. Our income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2007 included $50 million of non conventional fuel tax credits. These tax credits resulted in a 2.9 percentage point reduction in our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2007. Non conventional fuel tax credits expired at the end of 2007. Noncontrolling Interests Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $66 million in 2009, $41 million in 2008 and $46 million in 2007. In each period, these amounts have been principally related to third parties equity interests in two limited liability companies that own three waste to energy facilities operated by our Wheelabrator Group. The profitability of one of the LLCs has improved in 2009 as a result of an increase in the rentals paid by Wheelabrator to the LLC for the lease of one of the facilities. We have consolidated these variable interest entities since 2003 because we have determined that we are the primary beneficiary for accounting purposes. We are in the process of reconsidering our consolidation of the LLCs as a result of revised authoritative guidance associated with the consolidation of variable interest entities. Additional information related to these investments is included in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The comparison of these amounts for the reported periods has also been affected by significant adjustments recognized in consolidated operating expenses for changes in the present value of our environmental remediation obligations and recovery assets as a result of changes in the U.S. Treasury rates used to measure these balances. Landfill and Environmental Remediation Discussion and Analysis We owned or operated 268 solid waste and five hazardous waste landfills at December 31, 2009 and we owned or operated 267 solid waste and six hazardous waste landfills at December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2009 and 43 Table of Contents 2008, the expected remaining capacity, in cubic yards and tonnage of waste that can be accepted at our owned or operated landfills, is shown below (in millions): December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Remaining Remaining Permitted Expansion Total Permitted Expansion Total Capacity Capacity Capacity Capacity Capacity Capacity Remaining cubic yards 4,546 739 5,285 4,456 816 5,272 Remaining tonnage 4,075 726 4,801 3,979 794 4,773 Based on remaining permitted airspace as of December 31, 2009 and projected annual disposal volumes, the weighted average remaining landfill life for all of our owned or operated landfills is approximately 35 years. Many of our landfills have the potential for expanded disposal capacity beyond what is currently permitted. We monitor the availability of permitted disposal capacity at each of our landfills and evaluate whether to pursue an expansion at a given landfill based on estimated future waste volumes and prices, remaining capacity and likelihood of obtaining an expansion permit. We are seeking expansion permits at 39 of our landfills that meet the expansion criteria outlined in the Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions section above. Although no assurances can be made that all future expansions will be permitted or permitted as designed, the weighted average remaining landfill life for all owned or operated landfills is approximately 41 years when considering remaining permitted airspace, expansion airspace and projected annual disposal volume. The number of landfills we own or operate as of December 31, 2009, segregated by their estimated operating lives (in years), based on remaining permitted and expansion airspace and projected annual disposal volume, was as follows: 0 to 5 6 to 10 11 to 20 21 to 40 41+ Total Owned 14 11 37 68 81 211 Operated through lease(a) 5 4 5 5 7 26 Operating contracts(b) 12 5 10 5 4 36 Total landfills 31 20 52 78 92 273 (a) From an operating perspective, landfills we operate through lease agreements are similar to landfills we own because we own the landfills operating permit and will operate the landfill for the entire lease term, which in many cases is the life of the landfill. We are usually responsible for the closure and post closure obligations of the landfills we lease. (b) For operating contracts, the property owner owns the permit and we operate the landfill for a contracted term, which may be the life of the landfill. The property owner is generally responsible for closure and post closure obligations under our operating contracts. 44 Table of Contents The following table reflects landfill capacity and airspace changes, as measured in tons of waste, for landfills owned or operated by us during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in millions): December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Remaining Remaining Permitted Expansion Total Permitted Expansion Total Capacity Capacity Capacity Capacity Capacity Capacity Balance, beginning of year 3,979 794 4,773 3,787 893 4,680 Acquisitions, divestitures, newly permitted landfills and closures 33 33 20 15 35 Changes in expansions pursued(a) 83 83 94 94 Expansion permits granted(b) 129 (129 ) 228 (228 ) Airspace consumed (92 ) (92 ) (107 ) (107 ) Changes in engineering estimates and other(c) 26 (22 ) 4 51 20 71 Balance, end of year 4,075 726 4,801 3,979 794 4,773 (a) Amounts reflected here relate to the combined impacts of (i) new expansions pursued; (ii) increases or decreases in the airspace being pursued for ongoing expansion efforts; (iii) adjustments for differences between the airspace being pursued and airspace granted; and (iv) decreases due to decisions to no longer pursue expansion permits. (b) We received expansion permits at ten of our landfills during 2009 and 28 of our landfills during 2008, demonstrating our continued success in working with municipalities and regulatory agencies to expand the disposal capacity of our existing landfills. (c) Changes in engineering estimates can result in changes to the estimated available remaining capacity of a landfill or changes in the utilization of such landfill capacity, affecting the number of tons that can be placed in the future. Estimates of the amount of waste that can be placed in the future are reviewed annually by our engineers and are based on a number of factors, including standard engineering techniques and site specific factors such as current and projected mix of waste type; initial and projected waste density; estimated number of years of life remaining; depth of underlying waste; anticipated access to moisture through precipitation or recirculation of landfill leachate; and operating practices. We continually focus on improving the utilization of airspace through efforts that include recirculating landfill leachate where allowed by permit; optimizing the placement of daily cover materials; and increasing initial compaction through improved landfill equipment, operations and training. The tons received at our landfills in 2009 and 2008 are shown below (in thousands): 2009 2008 # of Total Tons # of Total Tons Sites Tons per Day Sites Tons per Day Solid waste landfills 268 (a) 91,901 337 267 106,731 391 Hazardous waste landfills 5 1,026 4 6 1,384 5 273 92,927 341 273 108,115 396 Solid waste landfills closed or divested during related year 4 328 9 882 93,255 (b) 108,997 (b) (a) In 2009, we acquired 3 landfills, closed 4 landfills and resumed operations at one landfill that we had previously closed. 45 Table of Contents (b) These amounts include 1.5 million tons at December 31, 2009 and 2.0 million tons at December 31, 2008 that were received at our landfills but were used for beneficial purposes and generally were redirected from the permitted airspace to other areas of the landfill. Waste types that are frequently identified for beneficial use include green waste for composting and clean dirt for on site construction projects. When a landfill we own or operate receives certification of closure from the applicable regulatory agency, we generally transfer the management of the site, including any remediation activities, to our closed sites management group. As of December 31, 2009, our closed sites management group manages 201 closed landfills. Landfill Assets We capitalize various costs that we incur to ready a landfill to accept waste. These costs generally include expenditures for land (including the landfill footprint and required landfill buffer property), permitting, excavation, liner material and installation, landfill leachate collection systems, landfill gas collection systems, environmental monitoring equipment for groundwater and landfill gas, directly related engineering, capitalized interest, and on site road construction and other capital infrastructure costs. The cost basis of our landfill assets also includes estimates of future costs associated with landfill final capping, closure and post closure activities, which are discussed further below. The following table reflects the total cost basis of our landfill assets and accumulated landfill airspace amortization as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and summarizes significant changes in these amounts during 2009 (in millions): Accumulated Cost Basis of Landfill Airspace Landfill Assets Amortization Landfill Assets December 31, 2008 $ 11,716 $ (6,053 ) $ 5,663 Capital additions 380 380 Asset retirement obligations incurred and capitalized 39 39 Acquisitions 35 35 Amortization of landfill airspace (358 ) (358 ) Foreign currency translation 169 (45 ) 124 Asset retirements and other adjustments (38 ) 8 (30 ) December 31, 2009 $ 12,301 $ (6,448 ) $ 5,853 As of December 31, 2009, we estimate that we will spend approximately $500 million in 2010, and approximately $1 billion in 2011 and 2012 combined for the construction and development of our landfill assets. The specific timing of landfill capital spending is dependent on future events and spending estimates are subject to change due to fluctuations in landfill waste volumes, changes in environmental requirements and other factors impacting landfill operations. Landfill and Environmental Remediation Liabilities As we accept waste at our landfills, we incur significant asset retirement obligations, which include liabilities associated with landfill final capping, closure and post closure activities. These liabilities are accounted for in accordance with authoritative guidance associated with accounting for asset retirement obligations, and are discussed in Note 3 of our Consolidated Financial Statements. We also have liabilities for the remediation of properties that have incurred environmental damage, which generally was caused by operations or for damage caused by conditions that existed before we acquired operations or a site. We recognize environmental remediation liabilities when we determine that the liability is probable and the estimated cost for the likely remedy can be reasonably estimated. 46 Table of Contents The following table reflects our landfill liabilities and our environmental remediation liabilities as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and summarizes significant changes in these amounts during 2009 (in millions): Environmental Landfill Remediation December 31, 2008 $ 1,218 $ 299 Obligations incurred and capitalized 39 Obligations settled (80 ) (43 ) Interest accretion 80 6 Revisions in cost estimates and interest rate assumptions 5 (7 ) Acquisitions, divestitures and other adjustments 5 1 December 31, 2009 $ 1,267 $ 256 Landfill Costs and Expenses As disclosed in the Operating Expenses section above, our landfill operating costs include interest accretion on asset retirement obligations, interest accretion on and discount rate adjustments to environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets, leachate and methane collection and treatment, landfill remediation costs, and other landfill site costs. The following table summarizes these costs for each of the three years indicated (in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Interest accretion on landfill liabilities $ 80 $ 77 $ 74 Interest accretion on and discount rate adjustments to environmental remediation liabilities and recovery assets (30 ) 41 17 Leachate and methane collection and treatment 69 69 59 Landfill remediation costs 23 17 17 Other landfill site costs 80 87 94 Total landfill operating costs $ 222 $ 291 $ 261 The comparison of these costs for the reported periods has been most significantly affected by accounting for changes in the risk free discount rate that we use to estimate the present value of our environmental remediation liabilities and environmental remediation recovery assets, which is based on the rate for U.S. Treasury bonds with a term approximating the weighted average period until settlement of the underlying obligations. Additionally, in 2009 and 2008, our leachate collection costs were higher in certain of our geographic Groups than they had been in 2007, primarily due to increased precipitation in the affected regions. Amortization of landfill airspace, which is included as a component of Depreciation and amortization expense, includes the following: the amortization of landfill capital costs, including (i) costs that have been incurred and capitalized and (ii) estimated future costs for landfill development and construction required to develop our landfills to their remaining permitted and expansion airspace; and the amortization of asset retirement costs arising from landfill final capping, closure and post closure obligations, including (i) costs that have been incurred and capitalized and (ii) projected asset retirement costs. Amortization expense is recorded on a units of consumption basis, applying cost as a rate per ton. The rate per ton is calculated by dividing each component of the amortizable basis of a landfill by the number of tons needed to fill the corresponding assets airspace. Landfill capital costs and closure and post closure asset retirement costs are generally incurred to support the operation of the landfill over its entire operating life, and are, therefore, amortized on a per ton basis using a landfills total airspace capacity. Final capping asset retirement costs are attributed to a specific final capping event, and are, therefore, amortized on a per ton basis using each discrete capping events estimated airspace capacity. Accordingly, each landfill has multiple per ton amortization rates. 47 Table of Contents The following table calculates our landfill airspace amortization expense on a per ton basis: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Amortization of landfill airspace (in millions) $ 358 $ 429 $ 440 Tons received, net of redirected waste (in millions) 92 107 114 Average landfill airspace amortization expense per ton $ 3.90 $ 4.01 $ 3.86 Different per ton amortization rates are applied at each of our 273 landfills, and per ton amortization rates vary significantly from one landfill to another due to (i) inconsistencies that often exist in construction costs and provincial, state and local regulatory requirements for landfill development and landfill final capping, closure and post closure activities; and (ii) differences in the cost basis of landfills that we develop versus those that we acquire. Accordingly, our landfill airspace amortization expense measured on a per ton basis can fluctuate due to changes in the mix of volumes we receive across the Company year over year. The comparability of our total Company average landfill airspace amortization expense per ton for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 has also been affected by the recognition of reductions to amortization expense for changes in our estimates related to our final capping, closure and post closure obligations. Landfill amortization expense was reduced by $14 million in 2009, $3 million in 2008 and $17 million in 2007, for the effects of these changes in estimates. In each year, the majority of the reduced expense resulted from revisions in the estimated timing or cost of final capping events that were generally the result of (i) concerted efforts to improve the operating efficiencies of our landfills and volume declines, both of which have allowed us to delay spending for final capping activities; (ii) effectively managing the cost of final capping material and construction; or (iii) landfill expansions that resulted in reduced or deferred final capping costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources We continually monitor our actual and forecasted cash flows, our liquidity and our capital resources, enabling us to plan for our present needs and fund unbudgeted business activities that may arise during the year as a result of changing business conditions or new opportunities. In addition to our working capital needs for the general and administrative costs of our ongoing operations, we have cash requirements for: (i) the construction and expansion of our landfills; (ii) additions to and maintenance of our trucking fleet and landfill equipment; (iii) construction, refurbishments and improvements at waste to energy and materials recovery facilities; (iv) the container and equipment needs of our operations; (v) capping, closure and post closure activities at our landfills; (vi) repaying debt and discharging other obligations; and (vii) investments in acquisitions that we believe will be accretive and provide continued growth in our business. We also are committed to providing our shareholders with a return on their investment through our capital allocation program that provides for dividend payments, share repurchases and investments in acquisitions that we believe will be accretive and provide continued growth in our business. 48 Table of Contents Summary of Cash and Cash Equivalents, Restricted Trust and Escrow Accounts and Debt Obligations The following is a summary of our cash and cash equivalents, restricted trust and escrow accounts and debt balances as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 (in millions): 2009 2008 Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,140 $ 480 Restricted trust and escrow accounts: Tax exempt bond funds $ 65 $ 123 Closure, post closure and environmental remediation funds 231 213 Debt service funds 35 Other 10 10 Total restricted trust and escrow accounts $ 306 $ 381 Debt: Current portion $ 749 $ 835 Long term portion 8,124 7,491 Total debt $ 8,873 $ 8,326 Increase in carrying value of debt due to hedge accounting for interest rate swaps $ 91 $ 150 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of cash on deposit and money market funds that invest in U.S. government obligations, all of which have original maturities of three months or less. The year over year increase in our cash balances is largely attributable to our November 2009 senior note issuance, which is discussed below. We intend to use a significant portion of the proceeds of this debt issuance to fund investments and acquisitions during the first half of 2010, including our anticipated purchase of a 40% equity investment in Shanghai Environment Group, which is discussed in Note 11 of our Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as additional investments in our waste to energy and solid waste businesses. Pending application of the offering proceeds as described, we have temporarily invested the proceeds in money market funds, which are reflected as cash equivalents in our December 31, 2009 Consolidated Balance Sheet. Restricted trust and escrow accounts Restricted trust and escrow accounts consist primarily of (i) funds deposited for purposes of settling landfill closure, post closure and environmental remediation obligations; and (ii) funds received from the issuance of tax exempt bonds held in trust for the construction of various projects or facilities. These balances are primarily included within long term Other assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Debt We use long term borrowings in addition to the cash we generate from operations as part of our overall financial strategy to support and grow our business. We primarily use senior notes and tax exempt bonds to borrow on a long term basis, but also use other instruments and facilities when appropriate. The components of our long term borrowings as of December 31, 2009 are described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Changes in our outstanding debt balances from December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009 can primarily be attributed to (i) $1,749 million of cash borrowings, including $793 million in net proceeds from the February 2009 issuance of $800 million of senior notes and $592 million in net proceeds from the November 2009 issuance of $600 million of senior notes; (ii) the cash repayment of $1,335 million of outstanding borrowings; (iii) proceeds from tax exempt borrowings of $130 million; (iv) a $59 million decrease in the carrying value of our debt due to hedge accounting for interest rate swaps; (v) a $40 million increase in the carrying value of our debt due to foreign currency translation; and (vi) the impacts of accounting for other non cash changes in our debt balances due to acquisitions, interest accretion and capital leases. As of December 31, 2009, we had (i) $998 million of debt maturing within twelve months, consisting primarily of U.S.$255 million under our Canadian credit facility and $600 million of 7.375% senior notes that mature in 49 Table of Contents August 2010; and (ii) $767 million of fixed rate tax exempt borrowings subject to re pricing within the next twelve months. The amount reported as the current portion of long term debt as of December 31, 2009 excludes certain of these amounts because we have the intent and ability to refinance portions of our current maturities on a long term basis. Refer to Note 7 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to our classification of current maturities based on our intent and ability, given the capacity available under our revolving credit facility and Canadian credit facility, to refinance certain of these borrowings on a long term basis. We have credit facilities in place to support our liquidity and financial assurance needs. The following table summarizes our outstanding letters of credit (in millions) at December 31, categorized by facility: 2009 2008 Revolving credit facility(a) $ 1,578 $ 1,803 Letter of credit facilities(b) 371 272 Other(c) 173 91 $ 2,122 $ 2,166 (a) WMIs $2.4 billion revolving credit facility matures in August 2011. At December 31, 2009, we had no outstanding borrowings and $1,578 million of letters of credit issued and supported by the facility. The unused and available credit capacity was $822 million at December 31, 2009. (b) At December 31, 2009, we have a $175 million letter of credit facility that expires in June 2010, a $105 million letter of credit facility that expires in June 2013 and a $100 million letter of credit facility that expires in December 2014. At December 31, 2009, no borrowings were outstanding under these agreements, and we had $9 million of unused and available capacity. (c) These letters of credit are outstanding under various arrangements that do not obligate the counterparty to provide a committed capacity. Summary of Cash Flow Activity The following is a summary of our cash flows for the years ended December 31 (in millions): 2009 2008 2007 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2,362 $ 2,575 $ 2,439 Net cash used in investing activities $ (1,250 ) $ (1,183 ) $ (761 ) Net cash used in financing activities $ (457 ) $ (1,256 ) $ (1,946 ) Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities The most significant items affecting the comparison of our operating cash flows for 2009 and 2008 are summarized below: Decrease in earnings Our income from operations, excluding depreciation and amortization, decreased by $419 million on a year over year basis. However, this earnings decline included the impact of the following non cash charges: The determination to abandon the SAP software as our revenue management system resulted in non cash impairment charges of $51 million The recognition of a $27 million non cash charge in the fourth quarter of 2009 as a result of a change in expectations for the future operations of a landfill in California. Further, approximately $55 million of the year over year decrease in earnings is related to the impact of divestiture gains and gains on sale of assets for which the cash flow impacts are reflected in investing activities in the caption Proceeds from divestitures of businesses and other sales of assets. The comparison of our 2009 and 2008 income from operations was also affected by an $86 million decrease in non cash charges attributable to (i) equity based compensation expense; (ii) interest accretion on landfill liabilities; and (iii) interest accretion and discount rate adjustments on environmental remediation liabilities 50 Table of Contents and recovery assets. While the decrease in non cash charges favorably affected our earnings comparison, there is no impact on net cash provided by operating activities. Change in receivables There was a significant decrease in the operating cash flows provided by changes in our receivables balances, net of effects of acquisitions and divestitures, when comparing 2009 with 2008. This decrease is primarily attributable to unusual activity in 2008, including (i) the significant decrease in sequential quarter revenues when comparing the fourth quarter of 2008 with the third quarter of 2008, which was driven by the decline in the demand and market prices for recyclable commodities; and (ii) the collection of a $60 million outstanding receivable related to our investments in synthetic fuel production facilities that provided us with Section 45K tax credits through 2007. Decreased income tax payments Cash paid for income taxes, net of excess tax benefits associated with equity based transactions, was approximately $140 million lower on a year over year basis. The comparability of our effective tax rates is discussed in the Provision for income taxes section above. Decreased interest payments Cash paid for interest was approximately $60 million lower on a year over year basis. This decrease is primarily due to a decline in market interest rates, which (i) increased the benefits to our interest costs provided by our active interest rate swap agreements; and (ii) reduced the interest costs associated with our variable rate tax exempt debt. Decreased bonus payments Employee bonus payments earned in 2008, which were paid in the first quarter of 2009, were lower than the bonus payments earned in 2007 but paid in 2008 due to the relative strength of our financial performance against incentive measures in 2007 as compared with 2008. The year over year decrease in cash bonuses favorably affected the comparison of our cash flow from operations by approximately $35 million. Termination of interest rate swaps In December 2009, we elected to terminate interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $350 million that were scheduled to mature in November 2012. Upon termination of the swaps, we received $20 million in cash for their fair value plus accrued interest receivable. The cash proceeds received from the termination of interest rate swap agreements have been classified as a change in other assets within Net cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Accounts payable processes We continue to work to improve our working capital management, including continuing to manage our accounts payable process in a manner that provides optimal cash management, which has favorably impacted our year over year cash flow from operations change by approximately $20 million. The most significant items affecting the comparison of our operating cash flows for 2008 and 2007 are summarized below: Earnings decline Our income from operations, net of depreciation and amortization, decreased by $41 million, on a year over year basis, which negatively affected our cash flow from operations in 2008. Receivables The change in our trade receivables balances, net of effects of acquisitions and divestitures, provided a source of cash of approximately $185 million in 2008. In 2008, our receivables balances declined primarily due to a decrease in fourth quarter revenues as compared with the prior year, but also due to improved efficiency of collections. Additionally, during the third quarter of 2008, we collected an outstanding receivable related to our investments in the synthetic fuel production facilities that provided us with Section 45K tax credits through 2007. Approximately $60 million of the cash we received represented a refund of amounts that we paid to the facilities during 2006 and 2007 for which we did not ultimately realize a tax benefit, and was reflected as an operating cash inflow. Increased income tax payments Cash paid for income taxes, net of excess tax benefits associated with equity based transactions, was approximately $170 million higher on a year over year basis, due in large part to an increase in both our taxable income and our effective tax rate. The comparability of our effective tax rates is discussed in the Provision for income taxes section above. In addition, the overpayment of income taxes in 2006 reduced our 2007 tax payments. 51 Table of Contents Decreased interest payments Cash paid for interest was approximately $65 million lower on a year over year basis. This decline is due primarily to a decline in our weighted average borrowing rate, which can be attributed to the maturity of higher rate debt that we refinanced at lower rates and a decline in market rates. Accounts payable processes In 2008, we began various initiatives to improve our working capital management, including reviewing our accounts payable process to ensure vendor payments are made on a basis that results in more optimal cash management. The changes made to the timing of our vendor payments favorably impacted our cash flow from operations on a year over year basis by approximately $30 million. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities The most significant items affecting the comparison of our investing cash flows for the periods presented are summarized below: Acquisitions Our spending on acquisitions increased from $90 million during 2007 to $280 million during 2008 and to $281 million in 2009 due to an increased focus on acquisitions and other investments. Divestitures Proceeds from divestitures (net of cash divested) and other sales of assets were $28 million in 2009, $112 million in 2008, and $278 million in 2007. Our proceeds from divestitures for all three years have been driven by the divestiture of underperforming and non strategic operations. The decrease in proceeds from divestitures in 2008 and 2009 was largely a result of having fewer underperforming operations to sell as part of our fix or seek exit initiative. Capital expenditures We used $1,179 million during 2009 for capital expenditures, compared with $1,221 million in 2008 and $1,211 million in 2007. Net receipts from restricted funds Net funds received from our restricted trust and escrow accounts, which are largely generated from the issuance of tax exempt bonds for our capital needs, contributed $196 million to our investing activities in 2009 compared with $178 million in 2008 and $120 million in 2007. Purchases and sales of short term investments Net sales of short term investments provided $184 million of cash in 2007. We used proceeds from the sale of our short term investments to provide cash that we used to fund our common stock repurchases, dividend payments and debt repayments, which are discussed below. We did not hold any short term investments during 2008 or 2009. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities The most significant items affecting the comparison of our financing cash flows for the periods presented are summarized below: Share repurchases and dividend payments Our 2009, 2008 and 2007 share repurchases and dividend payments have been made in accordance with capital allocation programs approved by our Board of Directors. We paid $226 million for share repurchases in 2009, compared with $410 million in 2008 and $1,421 million in 2007. We repurchased approximately 7 million, 12 million and 40 million shares of our common stock in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The significant declines in share repurchases for 2008 and 2009 are largely attributable to the suspension of our share repurchases in late 2008 given the state of the financial markets and the economy. Given the stabilization of the capital markets and economic conditions, we elected to resume our share repurchases during the third quarter of 2009. We paid an aggregate of $569 million in cash dividends during 2009, compared with $531 million in 2008 and $495 million in 2007. The increase in dividend payments is due to our quarterly per share dividend increasing from $0.24 in 2007, to $0.27 in 2008 and to $0.29 in 2009. In December 2009, the Board of Directors announced that it expects future quarterly dividend payments will be $0.315 per share for dividends declared in 2010. All future share repurchases will be made at the discretion of management and the Board of Directors will declare dividends at their discretion, with any decisions dependent on various factors, including our net earnings, financial condition, cash required for future acquisitions and investments and other factors the Board may deem relevant. 52 Table of Contents Proceeds and tax benefits from the exercise of options and warrants The exercise of common stock options and warrants and the related excess tax benefits generated a total of $24 million of financing cash inflows during 2009 compared with $44 million during 2008 and $168 million in 2007. Net debt repayments Net debt borrowings were $414 million in 2009, and net debt repayments were $260 million in 2008 and $256 million in 2007. The following summarizes our most significant cash borrowings and debt repayments made during each year (in millions): Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Borrowings: Revolving credit facility $ $ 350 $ 300 Canadian credit facility 364 581 644 Senior notes 1,385 594 $ 1,749 $ 1,525 $ 944 Repayments: Revolving credit facility $ (310 ) $ (371 ) $ Canadian credit facility (395 ) (634 ) (680 ) Senior notes (500 ) (633 ) (300 ) Tax exempt bonds (65 ) (19 ) (52 ) Tax exempt project bonds (39 ) (67 ) (61 ) Capital leases and other debt (26 ) (61 ) (107 ) $ (1,335 ) $ (1,785 ) $ (1,200 ) Net borrowings (repayments) $ 414 $ (260 ) $ (256 ) This summary excludes the impacts of non cash borrowings and debt repayments. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, these non cash financing activities were primarily associated with our tax exempt bond financings. Proceeds from tax exempt bond issuances, net of principal repayments made directly from trust funds, were $105 million in 2009, $169 million in 2008 and $144 million in 2007. Accrued liabilities for checks written in excess of cash balances Changes in our accrued liabilities for checks written in excess of cash balances are reflected as Other financing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. There are significant changes in these accrued liability balances as of each year end, which is generally attributable to the timing of cash deposits. 53 Table of Contents Summary of Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2009 and the anticipated effect of these obligations on our liquidity in future years (in millions): 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter Total Recorded Obligations: Expected environmental liabilities(a) Final capping, closure and post closure $ 125 $ 100 $ 96 $ 90 $ 90 $ 1,947 $ 2,448 Environmental remediation 41 36 23 17 14 146 277 166 136 119 107 104 2,093 2,725 Debt payments(b),(c),(d) 985 259 584 174 430 6,358 8,790 Unrecorded Obligations:(e) Non cancelable operating lease obligations 88 75 72 58 47 258 598 Estimated unconditional purchase obligations(f),(g),(h) 166 61 53 31 18 278 607 Anticipated liquidity impact as of December 31, 2009 $ 1,405 $ 531 $ 828 $ 370 $ 599 $ 8,987 $ 12,720 (a) Environmental liabilities include final capping, closure, post closure and environmental remediation costs. The amounts included here reflect environmental liabilities recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2009 without the impact of discounting and inflation. Our recorded environmental liabilities for final capping, closure and post closure will increase as we continue to place additional tons within the permitted airspace at our landfills. (b) The amounts reported here represent the scheduled principal payments related to our long term debt, excluding related interest. (c) Our debt obligations as of December 31, 2009 include $767 million of tax exempt bonds subject to re pricing within the next twelve months, which is prior to their scheduled maturities. If the re offerings of the bonds are unsuccessful, then the bonds can be put to us, requiring immediate repayment. We have classified the anticipated cash flows for these contractual obligations based on the scheduled maturity of the borrowing for purposes of this disclosure. For additional information regarding the classification of these borrowings in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2009, refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (d) Our recorded debt obligations include non cash adjustments associated with discounts, premiums and fair value adjustments for interest rate hedging activities. These amounts have been excluded here because they will not result in an impact to our liquidity in future periods. (e) Our unrecorded obligations represent operating lease obligations and purchase commitments from which we expect to realize an economic benefit in future periods. We have also made certain guarantees, as discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, that we do not expect to materially affect our current or future financial position, results of operations or liquidity. (f) Our unconditional purchase obligations are for various contractual obligations that we generally incur in the ordinary course of our business. Certain of our obligations are quantity driven. For these contracts, we have estimated our future obligations based on the current market values of the underlying products or services. Accordingly, the amounts reported in the table are not necessarily indicative of our actual cash flow obligations. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of the nature and terms of our unconditional purchase obligations. (g) In December 2009, we entered into a plan under SEC Rule 10b5 1 to effect market purchases of our common stock. We have included $58 million of common stock repurchases in our 2010 contractual obligations because this amount represents the minimum amount of common stock that could be repurchased under the terms of the plan. We repurchased $68 million of our common stock pursuant to the plan, which was completed on February 12, 2010. 54 Table of Contents (h) In August 2009, we entered into an agreement to purchase a 40% equity investment in Shanghai Environment Group, a subsidiary of Shanghai Chengtou Holding, for approximately $140 million. As of December 31, 2009, our investment was subject to regulatory approval. Accordingly, the impact of this cash investment was excluded from amounts reported herein. The Ministry of Commerce of the Peoples Republic of China approved the transaction in January 2010 and we currently expect the transaction to close during the first half of 2010. Liquidity Impacts of Uncertain Tax Positions As discussed in Note 9 of our Consolidated Financial Statements, we have liabilities associated with unrecognized tax benefits and related interest. These liabilities are primarily included as a component of long term Other liabilities in our Consolidated Balance Sheet because the Company generally does not anticipate that settlement of the liabilities will require payment of cash within the next twelve months. We are not able to reasonably estimate when we would make any cash payments required to settle these liabilities, but do not believe that the ultimate settlement of our obligations will materially affect our liquidity. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We are party to guarantee arrangements with unconsolidated entities as discussed in the Guarantees section of Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. These arrangements have not materially affected our financial position, results of operations or liquidity during the year ended December 31, 2009 nor are they expected to have a material impact on our future financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Seasonal Trends and Inflation Our operating revenues normally tend to be somewhat higher in the summer months, primarily due to the traditional seasonal increase in the volume of construction and demolition waste. The volumes of industrial and residential waste in certain regions where we operate also tend to increase during the summer months. Our second and third quarter revenues and results of operations typically reflect these seasonal trends, although we saw a significantly weaker seasonal volume increase during 2009 than we generally experience. Additionally, certain destructive weather conditions that tend to occur during the second half of the year, such as the hurricanes experienced by our Southern Group, can actually increase our revenues in the areas affected. However, for several reasons, including significant mobilization costs, such revenue often generates earnings at comparatively lower margins. Certain weather conditions may result in the temporary suspension of our operations, which can significantly affect the operating results of the affected regions. The operating results of our first quarter also often reflect higher repair and maintenance expenses because we rely on the slower winter months, when waste flows are generally lower, to perform scheduled maintenance at our waste to energy facilities. While inflationary increases in costs, including the cost of fuel, have affected our operating margins in recent years, we believe that inflation generally has not had, and in the near future is not expected to have, any material adverse effect on our results of operations. However, as of December 31, 2009, approximately 35% of our collection revenues were generated under long term franchise agreements with municipalities or similar local or regional authorities. These contractual agreements generally provide for price adjustments based on various indicies intended to measure inflation. Additionally, managements estimates associated with inflation have had, and will continue to have, an impact on our accounting for landfill and environmental remediation liabilities. New Accounting Pronouncements Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities In June 2009, the FASB issued revised authoritative guidance associated with the consolidation of variable interest entities. This revised guidance replaces the current quantitative based assessment for determining which enterprise has a controlling interest in a variable interest entity with an approach that is now primarily qualitative. This qualitative approach focuses on identifying the enterprise that has (i) the power to direct the activities of the variable interest entity that can most significantly impact the entitys performance; and (ii) the obligation to absorb losses and the right to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity. This revised guidance also requires an ongoing assessment of whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity rather than a reassessment only upon 55 Table of Contents the occurrence of specific events. The new FASB issued authoritative guidance associated with the consolidation of variable interest entities is effective for the Company January 1, 2010. The change in accounting may either be applied by recognizing a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings on the date of adoption or by retrospectively restating one or more years and recognizing a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the earliest year restated. We are currently in the process of assessing the provisions of this revised guidance and have not determined whether the adoption will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements In September 2009, the FASB amended authoritative guidance associated with multiple deliverable revenue arrangements. This amended guidance addresses the determination of when individual deliverables within an arrangement may be treated as separate units of accounting and modifies the manner in which transaction consideration is allocated across the separately identifiable deliverables. The amendments to authoritative guidance associated with multiple deliverable revenue arrangements are effective for the Company January 1, 2011, although the FASB does permit early adoption of the guidance provided that it is retroactively applied to the beginning of the year of adoption. The new accounting standard may be applied either retrospectively for all periods presented or prospectively to arrangements entered into or materially modified after the date of adoption. We are in the process of assessing the provisions of this new guidance and currently do not expect that the adoption will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. However, our adoption of this guidance may significantly impact our accounting and reporting for future revenue arrangements to the extent they are material. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk. In the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risks, including changes in interest rates, Canadian currency rates and certain commodity prices. From time to time, we use derivatives to manage some portion of these risks. Our derivatives are agreements with independent counterparties that provide for payments based on a notional amount. As of December 31, 2009, all of our derivative transactions were related to actual or anticipated economic exposures. We are exposed to credit risk in the event of non performance by our derivative counterparties. However, we monitor our derivative positions by regularly evaluating our positions and the creditworthiness of the counterparties. Interest Rate Exposure Our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our financing activities, although our interest costs can also be significantly affected by our on going financial assurance needs, which are discussed in the Financial Assurance and Insurance Obligations section of Item 1. As of December 31, 2009, we had $8.8 billion of long term debt when excluding the impacts of accounting for fair value adjustments attributable to interest rate derivatives, discounts and premiums. The effective interest rates of approximately $3.0 billion of our outstanding debt obligations are subject to change during 2010. The most significant components of our variable rate debt obligations are (i) $1.1 billion of receive fixed, pay variable interest rate swaps associated with outstanding fixed rate senior notes; (ii) $817 million of tax exempt bonds that are subject to re pricing on either a daily or weekly basis through a remarketing process; (iii) $767 million of tax exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that are subject to re pricing within twelve months; and (iv) $257 million of outstanding advances under our Canadian Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2008, the effective interest rates of approximately $3.4 billion of our outstanding debt obligations was subject to change within twelve months. The decrease in outstanding debt obligations exposed to variable interest rates in 2009 is generally as a result of an $850 million decrease in the notional amount of outstanding interest rate swaps offset, in part, by an increase in the portion of our outstanding tax exempt bonds with term interest rate periods that are subject to re pricing within twelve months. The decline in our variable rate debt obligations has reduced the potential volatility to our operating results and cash flows that results from fluctuations in market interest rates. We currently estimate that a 100 basis point increase in the interest rates of our outstanding variable rate debt obligations would increase our 2010 interest expense by approximately $23 million. Our remaining outstanding debt obligations have fixed interest rates through either the scheduled maturity of the debt or, for certain of our fixed rate tax exempt bonds, through the end of a term interest rate period that exceeds twelve months. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, we have Treasury rate locks with a notional amount 56 Table of Contents of $200 million and forward starting interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $525 million. The fair value of our fixed rate debt obligations and various interest rate derivative instruments can increase or decrease significantly if market interest rates change. We have performed sensitivity analyses to determine how market rate changes might affect the fair value of our market risk sensitive derivatives and related positions. These analyses are inherently limited because they reflect a singular, hypothetical set of assumptions. Actual market movements may vary significantly from our assumptions. An instantaneous, one percentage point increase in interest rates across all maturities and applicable yield curves attributable to these instruments would have decreased the fair value of our combined debt and interest rate derivative positions by approximately $610 million at December 31, 2009. We are also exposed to interest rate market risk because we have significant cash and cash equivalent balances as well as assets held in restricted trust funds and escrow accounts. These assets are generally invested in high quality, liquid instruments including money market funds that invest in U.S. government obligations with original maturities of three months or less. Because of the short terms to maturity of these investments, we believe that our exposure to changes in fair value due to interest rate fluctuations is insignificant. Commodity Price Exposure In the normal course of our business, we are subject to operating agreements that expose us to market risks arising from changes in the prices for commodities such as diesel fuel; recyclable materials, including aluminum, old corrugated cardboard and old newsprint; and electricity, which generally correlates with natural gas prices in the markets where we operate. During the three years ended December 31, 2009, we generally have not entered into derivatives to hedge the risks associated with changes in the market prices of these commodities. Alternatively, we attempt to manage these risks through operational strategies that focus on capturing our costs in the prices we charge our customers for the services provided. Accordingly, as the market prices for these commodities increase or decrease, our revenues also increase or decrease. During 2009, approximately 34% of the electricity revenue at our waste to energy facilities was subject to current market rates, and we currently expect that nearly 50% of our electricity revenues at our waste to energy facilities will be at market rates in 2010. Our exposure to variability associated with changes in market prices for electricity has increased because several long term power purchase agreements have expired. The energy markets have changed significantly since the expiring contracts were executed and we have found that medium and long term electricity contracts are less favorable in the current environment. As we renegotiate our power purchase agreements, we expect that a more substantial portion of our energy sales at our waste to energy facilities and landfill gas to energy plants will be based on current market rates. Accordingly, in 2010 we will be implementing a more actively managed energy program, which will include a hedging strategy intended to decrease the exposure of our revenues to volatility due to market prices for electricity. Currency Rate Exposure From time to time, we have used currency derivatives to mitigate the impact of currency translation on cash flows of intercompany Canadian currency denominated debt transactions. Our foreign currency derivatives have not materially affected our financial position or results of operations for the periods presented. In addition, while changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect the fair value of our foreign currency derivatives, we believe these changes in fair value would not have a material impact to the Company. 57 Table of Contents 
 
