Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations How We Manage Our Business For internal management purposes, we refer to core revenue, which we calculate as total operating revenue less the revenue of divested businesses. Core revenue is used to manage and evaluate the performance of our segments and to allocate resources because this measure provides an indication of the underlying changes in revenue in a single performance measure. Core revenue does not include reported revenue of divested businesses since they are not included in future revenue. On July 30, 2010, we completed the sale of substantially all of the assets and liabilities of our North American Self Awareness Solution business. This business has been classified as a Divested Business. This divested business contributed 2% and 5% of our North America total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 14 and Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further detail. On May 29, 2009, we completed the sale of substantially all the assets and liabilities of the domestic portion of our Italian operations. This business has been classified as a Divested Business. This divested business contributed 9% of our Europe and Other International total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009. See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further detail. We also isolate the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates on our revenue growth because we believe it is useful for investors to be able to compare revenue from one period to another, both with and without the effects of foreign exchange. The change in our operating performance attributable to foreign currency rates is determined by converting both our prior and current periods by a constant rate. As a result, we monitor our core revenue growth both after and before the effects of foreign exchange. Core revenue growth excludes the effects of foreign exchange. From time to time we have analyzed and we may continue to further analyze core revenue growth before the effects of foreign exchange among two components, organic core revenue growth and core revenue growth from acquisitions. We analyze organic core revenue growth and core revenue growth from acquisitions because management believes this information provides an important insight into the underlying health of our business. Core revenue includes the revenue from acquired businesses from the date of acquisition. We evaluate the performance of our business segments based on segment revenue growth before the effects of foreign exchange, and segment operating income growth before certain types of gains and charges that we consider do not reflect our underlying business performance. Specifically, for management reporting purposes, we evaluate business segment performance before non core gains and charges because such charges are not a component of our ongoing income or expenses and or may have a disproportionate positive or negative impact on the results of our ongoing underlying business operations. A recurring component of non core gains and charges are our restructuring charges, which result from a foundational element of our growth strategy that we refer to as Financial Flexibility. Through Financial Flexibility, management identifies opportunities to improve the performance of the business in terms of reallocating our spending from low growth or low value activities to activities that will create greater value for shareholders through enhanced revenue growth, improved profitability and or quality improvements. Management is committed through this process to examining our spending, and optimizing between variable and fixed costs to ensure flexibility in changes to our operating expense base as we make strategic choices. This enables us to continually and systematically identify improvement opportunities in terms of quality, cost and customer experience. Such charges are variable from period to period based upon actions identified and taken during each period. Management reviews operating results before such non core gains and charges on a monthly basis and establishes internal budgets and forecasts based upon such measures. Management further establishes annual and long term compensation such as salaries, target cash bonuses and target equity compensation amounts based on performance before non core gains and charges and a significant percentage weight is placed upon performance before non core gains and charges in determining whether 26 Table of Contents performance objectives have been achieved. Management believes that by eliminating non core gains and charges from such financial measures, and by being overt to shareholders about the results of our operations excluding such charges, business leaders are provided incentives to recommend and execute actions that are in the best long term interests of our shareholders, rather than being influenced by the potential impact a charge in a particular period could have on their compensation. Additionally, transition costs (period costs such as consulting fees, costs of temporary employees, relocation costs and stay bonuses incurred to implement the Financial Flexibility component of our strategy) are reported as Corporate and Other expenses and are not allocated to our business segments. See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for financial information regarding our segments. Similarly, when we evaluate the performance of our business as a whole, we focus on results (such as operating income, operating income growth, operating margin, net income, tax rate and diluted earnings per share) before non core gains and charges because such non core gains and charges are not a component of our ongoing income or expenses and or may have a disproportionate positive or negative impact on the results of our ongoing underlying business operations and may drive behavior that does not ultimately maximize shareholder value. It may be concluded from our presentation of non core gains and charges that the items that result in non core gains and charges may occur in the future. We monitor free cash flow as a measure of our business. We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities minus capital expenditures and additions to computer software and other intangibles. Free cash flow measures our available cash flow for potential debt repayment, acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividend payments and additions to cash, cash equivalents and short term investments. We believe free cash flow to be relevant and useful to our investors as this measure is used by our management in evaluating the funding available after supporting our ongoing business operations and our portfolio of product investments. Free cash flow should not be considered as a substitute measure for, or superior to, net cash flows provided by operating activities, investing activities or financing activities. Therefore, we believe it is important to view free cash flow as a complement to our consolidated statements of cash flows. In addition, we evaluate our North America Risk Management Solutions based on two metrics: (1) subscription, and non subscription, and (2) DNBi&reg; and non DNBi. We define subscription as contracts that allow customers unlimited use. In these instances, we recognize revenue ratably over the term of the contract, which is generally one year and non subscription as all other revenue streams. We define DNBi as our interactive, customizable online application that offers our customers real time access to our most complete and up to date global DUNSRight information, comprehensive monitoring and portfolio analysis and non DNBi as all other revenue streams. Management believes these measures provide further insight into our performance and growth of our North America Risk Management Solutions revenue. The adjustments discussed herein to our results as determined under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP) are among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for our planning and forecasting of future periods, to allocate resources, to evaluate business performance and, as noted above, for compensation purposes. However, these financial measures (e.g., results before non core gains and charges and free cash flow) are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for total revenue, operating income, operating income growth, operating margin, net income, tax rate, diluted earnings per share, or net cash provided by operating activities, investing activities and financing activities prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, it should be noted that because not all companies calculate these financial measures similarly, or at all, the presentation of these financial measures is not likely to be comparable to measures of other companies. See Results of Operations below for a discussion of our results reported on a GAAP basis. 27 Table of Contents Overview Effective January 1, 2011, we began reporting our business through three segments: North America (which consists of our operations in the United States (U.S.) and Canada); Asia Pacific (which primarily consists of our operations in Australia, Japan, China and India); and Europe and other International Markets (which primarily consists of our operations in the United Kingdom (UK), the Netherlands, Belgium, Latin America and our Worldwide Network). We have reported financial results in this new segment structure beginning with the results for the year ended December 31, 2011 and have conformed historical amounts to reflect the new segment structure. Prior to January 1, 2011, we managed and reported our business globally through two segments: North America (which consisted of our operations in the U.S. and Canada); and International (which consisted of our operations in Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America). The financial statements of our subsidiaries outside of North America reflect a fiscal year ended November 30 to facilitate the timely reporting of our consolidated financial results and financial position. The following table presents the contribution by segment to total revenue and core revenue: For the Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Total Revenue: North America 71 % 75 % 78 % Asia Pacific 15 % 10 % 8 % Europe and Other International Markets 14 % 15 % 14 % Core Revenue: North America 71 % 75 % 78 % Asia Pacific 15 % 10 % 8 % Europe and Other International Markets 14 % 15 % 14 % The following table presents the contribution by customer solution set to total revenue and core revenue: For the Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Total Revenue by Customer Solution Set(1): Risk Management Solutions 63 % 62 % 60 % Sales & Marketing Solutions 30 % 29 % 28 % Internet Solutions 7 % 7 % 7 % Core Revenue by Customer Solution Set: Risk Management Solutions 63 % 63 % 63 % Sales & Marketing Solutions 30 % 30 % 30 % Internet Solutions 7 % 7 % 7 % (1) Our divested businesses contributed 2% and 5% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. There were no divested businesses for the year ended December 31, 2011. These customer solution sets are discussed in greater detail in Item 1. Business of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 28 Table of Contents Within our Risk Management Solutions, we monitor the performance of our Traditional products, our Value Added products and our Supply Management products. Within our Sales & Marketing Solutions, we monitor the performance of our Traditional products and our Value Added products. Risk Management Solutions Our Traditional Risk Management Solutions include our DNBi&reg; product line, as well as reports from our database which are used primarily for making decisions about new credit applications. Our Traditional Risk Management Solutions constituted the following percentages of total Risk Management Solutions Revenue, Total Revenue and Core Revenue: For the Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Risk Management Solutions Revenue 74 % 74 % 73 % Total Revenue 47 % 46 % 44 % Core Revenue 47 % 46 % 46 % Our Value Added Risk Management Solutions generally support automated decision making and portfolio management through the use of scoring and integrated software solutions. Our Value Added Risk Management Solutions constituted the following percentages of total Risk Management Solutions Revenue, Total Revenue and Core Revenue: For the Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Risk Management Solutions Revenue 20 % 20 % 21 % Total Revenue 12 % 12 % 12 % Core Revenue 12 % 13 % 13 % Our Supply Management Solutions can help companies better understand the financial risk of their supply chain. Our Supply Management Solutions constituted the following percentages of total Risk Management Solutions Revenue, Total Revenue and Core Revenue: For the Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Risk Management Solutions Revenue 6 % 6 % 6 % Total Revenue 4 % 4 % 4 % Core Revenue 4 % 4 % 4 % Sales & Marketing Solutions Our Traditional Sales & Marketing Solutions generally consist of marketing lists, labels and customized data files used by our customers in their direct mail and marketing activities. Our Traditional Sales & Marketing Solutions constituted the following percentages of total Sales & Marketing Solutions Revenue, Total Revenue and Core Revenue: For the Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Sales & Marketing Solutions Revenue 36 % 38 % 40 % Total Revenue 11 % 11 % 11 % Core Revenue 11 % 12 % 12 % Our Value Added Sales & Marketing Solutions generally include decision making and customer information management solutions, including data management solutions like Optimizer (our solution to cleanse, 29 Table of Contents identify and enrich our customers client portfolios) and products introduced as part of our Data as a Service (or DaaS) Strategy, which integrates our data directly into the applications and platforms that our customers use every day. Our Value Added Sales & Marketing Solutions constituted the following percentages of total Sales & Marketing Solutions Revenue, Total Revenue and Core Revenue: For the Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Sales & Marketing Solutions Revenue 64 % 62 % 60 % Total Revenue 19 % 18 % 17 % Core Revenue 19 % 18 % 18 % Our Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates In preparing our consolidated financial statements and accounting for the underlying transactions and balances reflected therein, we have applied the significant accounting policies described in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Of those policies, we consider the policies described below to be critical because they are both most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results, and they require managements subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. If actual results in a given period ultimately differ from previous estimates, the actual results could have a material impact on such period. We have discussed the selection and application of our critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosure regarding critical accounting policies and estimates as well as the other sections in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligations Through June 30, 2007, we offered to substantially all of our U.S. based employees coverage under a defined benefit plan called The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation Retirement Account (U.S. Qualified Plan). The U.S. Qualified Plan covered active and retired employees. The benefits to be paid upon retirement are based on a percentage of the employees annual compensation. The percentage of compensation allocated annually to a retirement account ranged from 3% to 12.5% based on age and service. Amounts allocated under the U.S. Qualified Plan also receive interest credits based on the 30 year Treasury rate or equivalent rate published by the Internal Revenue Service. Pension costs are determined actuarially and funded in accordance with the Internal Revenue Code. During 2010 in conjunction with a determination letter review, we updated certain portions of the U.S. Qualified Plans cash balance pay credit scale, along with the minimum interest crediting rate, retroactive to January 1, 1997, to ensure that the plan complies with the accrual rules in the Internal Revenue Code. We received a favorable determination letter for the U.S. Qualified Plan in October 2010 in conjunction with these changes. We also maintain supplemental and excess plans in the United States (U.S. Non Qualified Plans) to provide additional retirement benefits to certain key employees of the Company. These plans are unfunded, pay as you go plans. The U.S. Qualified Plan and the U.S. Non Qualified Plans account for approximately 73% and 15% of our pension obligation, respectively, at December 31, 2011. Effective June 30, 2007, we amended the U.S. Qualified Plan and one of the U.S. Non Qualified Plans, known as the U.S. Pension Benefit Equalization Plan (the PBEP). Any pension benefit that had been accrued through such date under the two plans was 30 Table of Contents frozen at its then current value and no additional benefits, other than interest on such amounts, will accrue under the U.S. Qualified Plan and the PBEP. Our employees in certain of our international operations are also provided with retirement benefits through defined benefit plans, representing the remaining balance of our pension obligations. We also provide various health care for retirees. U.S. based employees, hired before January 1, 2004, who retire with 10 years of vesting service after age 45, are eligible to receive benefits. Postretirement benefit costs and obligations are determined actuarially. During the first quarter of 2010, we eliminated company paid life insurance benefits for retirees and modified our sharing of the Retiree Drug Subsidy with retirees that were projected to receive. Effective July 1, 2010, we elected to convert the current prescription drug program for retirees over 65 to a group based company sponsored Medicare Part D program, or Employer Group Waiver Plan (EGWP). Under this change, beginning in 2013, we will use the Part D subsidies delivered through the EGWP each year to reduce net company retiree medical costs until net company costs are completely eliminated. At that time, the Part D subsidies will be shared with retirees going forward to reduce retiree contributions. The key assumptions used in the measurement of the pension and postretirement obligations and net periodic pension and postretirement cost are: Expected long term rate of return on pension plan assets which is based on a target asset allocation as well as expected returns on asset categories of plan investments; Discount rate which is used to measure the present value of pension plan obligations and postretirement health care obligations. The discount rates are derived using a yield curve approach which matches projected plan benefit payment streams with bond portfolios, reflecting actual liability duration unique to our plans; Rates of compensation increase and cash balance accumulation/conversion rates which are based on an evaluation of internal plans and external market indicators; and Health care cost trends which are based on historical cost data, the near term outlook and an assessment of likely long term trends. We believe that the assumptions used are appropriate, though changes in these assumptions would affect our pension and other postretirement benefit costs. The factor with the most immediate impact on our consolidated financial statements is a change in the expected long term rate of return on pension plan assets for the U.S. Qualified Plan. For 2012, we will use an expected long term rate of return of 7.75%. This assumption was 8.25% in each of the years 2011, 2010 and 2009. The 7.75% assumption represents our best estimate of the expected long term future investment performance of the U.S. Qualified Plan, after considering expectations for future capital market returns and the plans asset allocation. As of December 31, 2011, the U.S. Qualified Plan was 53% invested in publicly traded equity securities, 44% invested in debt securities and 3% invested in real estate investments. Every one quarter percentage point increase or decrease in the long term rate of return increases or reduces our annual operating income by approximately $3 million by increasing or reducing our net periodic pension income. Changes in the discount rate, rate of compensation increase and cash balance accumulation/conversion rates also have an effect on our annual operating income. Based on the factors noted above, the discount rate is adjusted at each remeasurement date while other assumptions are reviewed annually. For our U.S. plans, every one quarter percentage point increase or decrease in the discount rate reduces or increases our pension cost by approximately $0.5 million. The discount rate used to determine pension cost for our U.S. pension plans was 5.06%, 5.72% and 6.10% for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. For 2012, we decreased the discount rate to 4.05% from 5.06% for all our U.S. pension plans. Differences between the assumptions stated above and actual experience could affect our pension and other postretirement benefit costs. When actual plan experience differs from the assumptions used, actuarial gains or 31 Table of Contents losses arise. These gains and losses are aggregated and amortized generally over the average future service periods or life expectancy of plan participants to the extent that such gains or losses exceed a corridor. The purpose of the corridor is to reduce the volatility caused by the difference between actual experience and the pension related assumptions noted above, on a plan by plan basis. For all of our pension plans, total actuarial losses that have not been recognized in our pension costs as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $1,093.8 million and $902.7 million, respectively, of which $879.9 million and $703.8 million, respectively, were attributable to the U.S. Qualified Plan, $120.2 million and $105.2 million, respectively, were attributable to the U.S. Non Qualified Plans, and the remainder was attributable to the non U.S. pension plans. See discussion in Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We expect to recognize a portion of such losses in our 2012 net periodic pension cost of $26.4 million, $6.9 million and $2.2 million, for the U.S. Qualified Plan, U.S. Non Qualified Plans and non U.S. plans, respectively, compared to $18.1 million, $6.4 million and $1.9 million, respectively, in 2011. The higher amortization of actuarial loss in 2012 for the U.S. Qualified plan, which will be included in our pension cost in 2012, is primarily due to a lower discount rate and higher unrecognized actuarial loss subject to amortization in 2012 for the U.S. Qualified Plan related to the investment loss from 2008. Differences between the expected long term rate of return assumption and actual experience could affect our net periodic pension cost. For our pension plans, we recorded net pension periodic cost of $7.1 million, $5.8 million and $6.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. A major component of the net pension periodic cost is the expected return on plan assets, which was $110.4 million, $113.4 million and $115.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The expected return on plan assets was determined by multiplying the expected long term rate of return assumption by the market related value of plan assets. The market related value of plan assets recognizes asset gains and losses over five years to reduce the effects of short term market fluctuations on net periodic cost. For our pension plans we recorded: (i) for the year ended December 31, 2011, a total investment gain of $39.3 million which was comprised of a gain of $27.7 million in our U.S. Qualified Plan and a gain of $11.6 million in our non U.S. plans; (ii) for the year ended December 31, 2010, a total investment gain of $138.5 million which was comprised of a gain of $126.3 million in our U.S. Qualified Plan and a gain of $12.2 million in our non U.S. plans; and (iii) for the year ended December 31, 2009, a total investment gain of $191.5 million which was comprised of a gain of $162.4 million in our U.S. Qualified Plan and a gain of $29.1 million in our non U.S. plans. At January 1, 2012, the market related value of plan assets of our U.S. Qualified Plan and the non U.S. plans was $1,166.4 million and $194.5 million, respectively, compared with the fair value of its plan assets of $1,056.5 million and $191.6 million, respectively. Changes in the funded status of our pension plans could result in fluctuation in our shareholders equity (deficit). We are required to recognize the funded status of our benefit plans as a liability or an asset, on a plan by plan basis with an offsetting adjustment to Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI), in our shareholders equity (deficit), net of tax. Accordingly, the amounts recognized in equity represent unrecognized gains/losses and prior service costs. These unrecognized gains/losses and prior service costs are amortized out of equity (deficit) based on an actuarial calculation each period. Gains/losses and prior service costs that arise during the year are recognized as a component of Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) which is then reflected in AOCI. As a result, we recorded a net loss of $122.4 million and $0.5 million in OCI, net of applicable tax, in the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In addition, $9.1 million was recorded to AOCI in 2010 related to a tax adjustment associated with the enactment of the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act. The increase of the loss in 2011 was primarily due to the deterioration of the funded status for the U.S. Qualified Plan and U.S. Non Qualified Plans at December 31, 2011. Funded status for our global pension plans was a deficit of $589.4 million at December 31, 2011 compared to $431.2 million at December 31, 2010, driven by worse asset performance for our U.S. Qualified Plan and the impact of assumption changes for our U.S. Qualified Plan and U.S. Non Qualified Plans. The funded status for our U.S. Qualified Plan was a deficit of $290.0 million at December 31, 2011 compared to a deficit of $133.2 million at December 31, 2010. 32 Table of Contents For information on pension and postretirement benefit plan contribution requirements, please see Future Liquidity Sources and Uses of Funds Pension Plan and Postretirement Benefit Plan Contribution Requirements. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for more information regarding costs of, and assumptions for, our pension and postretirement benefit obligations and costs. Income Taxes and Tax Contingencies In determining taxable income for financial statement purposes, we must make certain estimates and judgments. These estimates and judgments affect the calculation of certain tax liabilities and the determination of the recoverability of certain of the deferred tax assets, which arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and expense. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets we consider all available positive and negative evidence including our past operating results, the existence of cumulative losses in the most recent years and our forecast of future taxable income. In estimating future taxable income, we develop assumptions including the amount of future pre tax operating income, the reversal of temporary differences and the implementation of feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. These assumptions require significant judgment about the forecasts of future taxable income and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. We currently have recorded valuation allowances that we will maintain until it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets will be realized. Our income tax expense recorded in the future may be reduced to the extent of decreases in our valuation allowances. The realization of our remaining deferred tax assets is primarily dependent on future taxable income in the appropriate jurisdiction. Any reduction in future taxable income may require that we record an additional valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. An increase in the valuation allowance could result in additional income tax expense in such period and could have a significant impact on our future earnings. Changes in tax laws and rates could also affect recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities in the future. Management records the effect of a tax rate or law change on our deferred tax assets and liabilities in the period of enactment. Future tax rate or law changes could have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. We recognize potential liabilities and record tax liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These tax liabilities are reflected net of related tax loss carryforwards. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities. If our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, an additional charge to expense would result. If payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be less than the recorded amounts, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when the following four conditions are met: Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; The contract fee is fixed and determinable; Delivery or performance has occurred; and Collectability is reasonably assured. If at the outset of an arrangement we determine that collectability is not reasonably assured, revenue is deferred until the earlier of when collectability becomes probable or the receipt of payment. If there is 33 Table of Contents uncertainty as to the customers acceptance of our deliverables, revenue is not recognized until the earlier of receipt of customer acceptance or expiration of the acceptance period. If at the outset of an arrangement we determine that the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, revenue is deferred until the arrangement fee becomes fixed or determinable, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Our Risk Management Solutions are generally sold under fixed price subscription contracts that allow customers unlimited access to risk information. Revenue on this type of contract is recognized ratably over the term of the contract, which is generally one year. Risk information is also sold using monthly or annual contracts that allow customers to purchase our risk information up to the contract amount based on an agreed price list. Once the contract amount is fully used, additional risk information can be purchased at per item prices which may be different than those in the original contract. Revenue on these contracts is recognized on a per item basis as information is purchased and delivered to the customer. If customers do not use the full amount of their contract and forfeit the unused portion, we recognize the forfeited amount as revenue at contract expiration. Where a data file of risk information is sold with periodic updates to that information, a portion of the revenue related to the updates is deferred as a liability on the balance sheet and recognized as the updates are delivered, usually on a quarterly or monthly basis over the term of the contract. Revenue related to services, such as monitoring, is recognized ratably over the period of performance. Sales & Marketing Solutions that provide continuous access to our marketing information and business reference databases may include access or hosting fees which are sold on a subscription basis. Revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the contract, which is typically one year. Where a data file of marketing information is sold, we recognize revenue upon delivery of the marketing data file to the customer. If the contract provides for periodic updates to that marketing data file, the portion of the revenue related to updates is deferred as a liability on the balance sheet and recognized as the updates are delivered, usually on a quarterly or monthly basis, over the term of the contract. Internet Solutions represent the results of our Hoovers business, including our First Research division. Hoovers and First Research provide subscription solutions that allow continuous access to our business information databases. Revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the contract, which is generally one year. Any additional solutions purchased are recognized upon delivery to the customer. Sales of software that are considered to be more than incidental are recognized in revenue when a non cancelable license agreement has been signed and the software has been shipped and installed, if required. Revenue from consulting and training services is recognized as the services are performed. Multiple Element Arrangements Effective January 1, 2011, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2009 13, Revenue Recognition Multiple Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, which amends guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605 25, Revenue Recognition: Multiple Element Arrangements, on a prospective basis for all new or materially modified arrangements entered into on or after that date. The new standard: Provides updated guidance on whether multiple deliverables exist, how the elements in an arrangement should be separated, and how the consideration should be allocated; Requires an entity to allocate revenue in an arrangement using the best estimated selling prices (BESP) of each element if a vendor does not have vendor specific objective evidence of selling prices (VSOE) or third party evidence of selling price (TPE); and Eliminates the use of the residual method and requires a vendor to allocate revenue using the relative selling price method. 34 Table of Contents We have certain solution offerings that are sold as multi element arrangements. The multiple element arrangements or deliverables may include access to our business information database, information data files, periodic data refreshes, software and services. We evaluate each deliverable in an arrangement to determine whether it represents a separate unit of accounting. Most product and service deliverables qualify as separate units of accounting and can be sold standalone or in various combinations across our markets. A deliverable constitutes a separate unit of accounting when it has standalone value and there are no customer negotiated refunds or return rights for the delivered items. If the arrangement includes a customer negotiated refund or return right relative to the delivered items, and the delivery and performance of the undelivered item is considered probable and substantially in our control, the delivered item constitutes a separate unit of accounting. The new guidance requires for deliverables with standalone value in a multi element arrangement for which revenue was previously deferred due to undelivered elements not having fair value of selling price to be separated and recognized as delivered, rather than over the longest service delivery period as a single unit with other elements in the arrangement. If the deliverable or a group of deliverables meets the separation criteria, the total arrangement consideration is allocated to each unit of accounting based on its relative selling price. The amount of arrangement consideration that is allocated to a delivered unit of accounting is limited to the amount that is not contingent upon the delivery of another unit of accounting. We determine the selling price for each deliverable using VSOE, if it exists, TPE if VSOE does not exist, or BESP if neither VSOE nor TPE exist. Revenue allocated to each element is then recognized when the basic revenue recognition criteria are met for each element. Consistent with our methodology under the previous accounting guidance, we determine VSOE of a deliverable by monitoring the price at which we sell the deliverable on a standalone basis to third parties or from the stated renewal rate for the elements contained in the initial arrangement. In certain instances, we are not able to establish VSOE for all deliverables in an arrangement with multiple elements. This may be due to us infrequently selling each element separately, not pricing products or services within a set range, or only having a limited sales history. Where we are unable to establish VSOE, we may use the price at which we or a third party sell a similar product to similarly situated customers on a standalone basis. Generally, our offerings contain a level of differentiation such that comparable pricing of solutions with similar functionality or delivery cannot be obtained. Furthermore, we are rarely able to reliably determine what similar competitors selling prices are on a standalone basis. Therefore, we typically are not able to determine TPE of selling price. When we are unable to establish selling prices by using VSOE or TPE, we establish the BESP in our allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of BESP is to determine the price at which we would transact a sale if the solution were sold on a standalone basis. The determination of BESP is based on our review of available data points and consideration of factors such as but not limited to pricing practices, our growth strategy, geographies, and customer segment and market conditions. The determination of BESP is made through consultation with and formal approval of our management, taking into consideration our go to market strategy. We regularly review VSOE and have a review process for TPE and BESP and maintain internal controls over the establishment and updates of these estimates. The adoption of this new authoritative guidance did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Prior to January 1, 2011 and pursuant to the previous accounting standards, we allocated revenue in a multiple element arrangement to each deliverable based on its relative fair value. If we did not have fair value for the delivered items, the contract fee was allocated to the undelivered items based on their fair values and the remaining residual amount, if any, was allocated to the delivered items. After the arrangement consideration, we applied the appropriate revenue recognition method from those described above for each unit of accounting, 35 Table of Contents assuming all other revenue recognition criteria were met. All deliverables that did not meet the separation criteria were combined with an undelivered unit of accounting. We generally recognized revenue for a combined unit of accounting based on the method most appropriate for the last delivered item. Deferred revenue consists of amounts billed in excess of revenue recognized on sales of our information solutions and generally relates to deferral of subscription revenue. Deferred revenue is included in current liabilities in the balance sheet and is subsequently recognized as revenue in accordance with our revenue recognition policies. We record revenue on a net basis for those sales where we act as an agent or broker in the transaction. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill represents the excess of costs over fair value of assets of businesses acquired. Goodwill and intangibles with an indefinite life are not subject to regular periodic amortization. Instead, the carrying amount of the goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles is tested for impairment at least annually, and between annual tests if events or circumstances warrant such a test. An impairment loss would be recognized if the carrying amount exceeded the fair value. We assess recoverability of goodwill at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit is an operating segment or a component of an operating segment which is a business and for which discrete financial information is available and reviewed by a segment manager. Our reporting units are North America, United Kingdom, Benelux, Latin America, Partnerships, Japan, Greater China, Australia and India. When applicable, we will perform a qualitative assessment before calculating the fair value of a reporting unit in Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test. If we determine, on the basis of qualitative factors, that the fair value of a reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying amount, the two step impairment test would be required. Otherwise, no further testing would be needed. We perform a two step goodwill impairment test. In the first step, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. We determine the fair value of our reporting units based on the market approach and also in certain instances use the income approach to further validate our results. Under the market approach, we estimate the fair value based on market multiples of current year earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) for each individual reporting unit. For the market approach, we use judgment in identifying the relevant comparable company market multiples (i.e., recent divestitures/acquisitions, facts and circumstances surrounding the market, dominance, growth rate, etc.). As of our most recent impairment analysis, the current year EBITDA multiples used to determine the individual reporting units fair value range from 8 to 12. For the income approach, we used projections based on managements most recent view of the long term outlook for each reporting unit. Factors specific to each reporting unit including revenue growth, profit margins, terminal value growth rates, capital expenditures projections, assumed tax rates, discount rates and other assumptions deemed reasonable by management. For our 2011 year end impairment analysis, the discount rates used to determine the individual reporting units fair value range from 11% to 14%. In the first step, if the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets, including goodwill assigned to that reporting unit, goodwill is not impaired and no further test is performed. However, if the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, the second step of the impairment test is performed to determine the magnitude of the impairment, which is the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill compared to the carrying value. The implied fair value of goodwill is the difference between the fair value of the reporting unit and the fair value of its identifiable net assets. If the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, the impaired goodwill is written down to its implied fair value and an impairment loss equal to this difference is recorded in the period the impairment is identified as an operating expense. 36 Table of Contents Our determination of current year EBITDA multiples are sensitive to the risk of future variances due to market conditions as well as business unit execution risks. Management assesses the relevance and reliability of the multiples by considering factors unique to its reporting units, including recent operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and other data. EBITDA multiples can also be significantly impacted by the future growth opportunities for the reporting unit as well as for the Company itself, general market and geographic sentiment, and pending or recently completed merger transactions. Consequently, if future results fall below our forward looking projections for an extended period of time, the results of future impairment tests could indicate impairment exists. Although we believe the multiples of current year EBITDA in our market approach make reasonable assumptions about our business, a significant increase in competition or reduction in our competitive capabilities could have a significant adverse impact on our ability to retain market share and thus on the projected values included in the market approach used to value our reporting units. As a reasonableness check, we reconcile the estimated fair values derived in the valuations for the total company based on the individual reporting units to total D&Bs enterprise value (calculated by multiplying the closing price of D&Bs stock on December 30, 2011 by the number of shares outstanding at that time, adjusted for the value of the Companys debt). At December 31, 2011, each of our reporting units had a fair value of at least 20% in excess of its carrying value. The allocated goodwill by reportable segment is as follows: (in millions) Number ofReporting Units As ofDecember 31, 2011 As ofDecember 31, 2010 North America 1 $ 266.0 $ 266.3 Asia Pacific 4 219.2 218.3 Europe and Other 4 113.2 115.1 International Markets $ 598.4 $ 599.7 For indefinite lived intangibles, other than goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized if the carrying value exceeds the fair value. The estimated fair value is determined by utilizing the expected present value of the future cash flows of the assets. No impairment charges related to goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets have been recognized for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Recently Issued Accounting Standards See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for disclosure of the impact that recently issued accounting standards may have on our audited consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements. They should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related footnotes set forth in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. 37 Table of Contents Consolidated Revenue The following table presents our revenue by segment: For the Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Amounts in millions) Revenue: North America $ 1,246.8 $ 1,229.5 $ 1,239.4 Asia Pacific 259.2 170.8 130.0 Europe and Other International Markets 252.5 243.4 225.4 Core Revenue $ 1,758.5 1,643.7 1,594.8 Divested Businesses 0.0 32.9 92.2 Total Revenue $ 1,758.5 $ 1,676.6 $ 1,687.0 The following table presents our revenue by customer solution set: For the Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Amounts in millions) Revenue: Risk Management Solutions $ 1,114.4 $ 1,036.7 $ 1,002.2 Sales & Marketing Solutions 520.8 492.1 474.6 Internet Solutions 123.3 114.9 118.0 Core Revenue 1,758.5 1,643.7 1,594.8 Divested Businesses 0.0 32.9 92.2 Total Revenue $ 1,758.5 $ 1,676.6 $ 1,687.0 Year ended December 31, 2011 vs. Year ended December 31, 2010 Total revenue increased $81.9 million, or 5% (3% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in total revenue was driven by an increase in Asia Pacific total revenue of $88.4 million, or 52% (43% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), and an increase in Europe and Other International Markets total revenue of $9.1 million, or 4% (less than 1% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), partially offset by a decrease in North America total revenue of $15.6 million, or 1% (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange). North America total revenue was negatively impacted by the divestiture of our North American Self Awareness Solution business in the third quarter of 2010, which we reclassified as a divested business and accounted for $32.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Core revenue, which reflects total revenue less revenue from a divested business, increased $114.8 million, or 7% (5% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. The increase in core revenue is primarily attributed to: Increased revenue as a result of the acquisition of D&B Australia, which we consolidated in the fourth quarter of 2010; The positive impact of foreign exchange; and Increased purchases by new and existing customers in certain of our international markets; 38 Table of Contents partially offset by: decline in growth due to a of lack of innovation in Risk Management Solutions, resulting from our strategic decision to move Risk Management Solutions product innovation to our state of the art application development center in Dublin, Ireland. Customer Solution Set On a customer solution set basis, the $114.8 million increase in core revenue reflects: A $77.7 million, or 8% increase (6% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), in Risk Management Solutions. The increase was driven by an increase in revenue in Asia Pacific of $73.0 million, or 72% (62% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), and an increase in revenue in Europe and Other International Markets of $5.4 million, or 3% (1% decrease before the effect of foreign exchange), partially offset by a decrease in revenue in North America of $0.7 million, or less than 1% (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange). A $28.7 million, or 6% increase (5% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), in Sales and Marketing Solutions. The increase was driven by an increase in revenue in Asia Pacific of $15.6 million, or 23% (17% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), an increase in revenue in North America of $9.5 million, or 3% (2% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), and an increase in revenue in Europe and Other International Markets of $3.6 million, or 9% (6% increase before the effect of foreign exchange). An $8.4 million, or 7% increase (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange), in Internet Solutions. The increase was driven by an increase in revenue in North America of $8.5 million, or 8% (7% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), and an increase in revenue in Europe and Other International Markets of $0.1 million, or 1% (2% decrease before the effect of foreign exchange), partially offset by a decrease in revenue in Asia Pacific of $0.2 million, or 11% (12% decrease before the effect of foreign exchange). Year ended December 31, 2010 vs. Year ended December 31, 2009 Total revenue decreased $10.4 million, or 1% (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange), for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in total revenue was primarily driven by a decrease in North America total revenue of $47.3 million, or 4% (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange), and a decrease in total revenue in Europe and Other International Markets of $3.9 million or 2% (less than 1% decrease before the effect of foreign exchange), partially offset by an increase in Asia Pacific total revenue of $40.8 million, or 31% (26% increase before the effect of foreign exchange). North America was impacted by the divestiture of our North American Self Awareness Solution business in the third quarter of 2010, which we reclassified as a divested business and accounted for $32.9 million and $70.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Europe and Other International Markets total revenue was negatively impacted by our divestiture of the domestic portion of our Italian operations in the second quarter of 2009, which we reclassified as a divested business and accounted for $21.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Core revenue, which reflects total revenue less revenue from a divested business, increased $48.9 million, or 3% (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange), for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. The increase in core revenue is primarily attributed to: Increased revenue as a result of the following acquisitions: a) D&B Australia which we consolidated in the fourth quarter of 2010; b) substantially all of the assets of Bisnodes UK operations and a 100% equity interest in Bisnodes Irish operation (ICC) which we consolidated in the third quarter of 2009; c) Quality Education Data (QED) which we consolidated in the first quarter of 2009; and our 39 Table of Contents majority owned joint venture with Roadway International Limited (RoadWay) in China which we consolidated in the third quarter of 2009; all of which in the aggregate, contributed three points of the growth; and Increased purchases by new and existing customers in certain of our international markets; partially offset by: Lower purchases from our customers due to a weak economy and budgetary pressures in North America. Customer Solution Set On a customer solution set basis, the $48.9 million increase in core revenue reflects: A $34.5 million, or 3% increase (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange), in Risk Management Solutions. The increase was driven by an increase in revenue in Asia Pacific of $26.8 million, or 36% (31% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), and an increase in revenue in Europe and Other International Markets of $15.5 million, or 8% (10% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), partially offset by a decrease in revenue in North America of $7.8 million, or 1% (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange); A $17.5 million, or 4% increase (3% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), in Sales & Marketing Solutions. The increase was driven by an increase in revenue in Asia Pacific of $13.8 million, or 25% (21% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), an increase in revenue in Europe and Other International Markets of $2.7 million, or 8% (9% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), and an increase in revenue in North America of $1.0 million, or less than 1% (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange); and A $3.1 million, or 3% decrease (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange), in Internet Solutions. The decrease was driven by a decrease in revenue in North America of $3.1 million, or 3% (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange), and a decrease in revenue in Europe and Other International Markets of $0.2 million, or 3% (4% decrease before the effect of foreign exchange), partially offset by an increase in revenue in Asia Pacific of $0.2 million, or 3% (3% decrease before the effect of foreign exchange). Consolidated Operating Costs The following table presents our consolidated operating costs and operating income: For the Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Amounts in millions) Operating Expenses $ 587.1 $ 557.7 $ 500.3 Selling and Administrative Expenses 643.4 626.9 641.0 Depreciation and Amortization 81.1 68.1 58.1 Restructuring Charge 22.1 14.8 23.1 Operating Costs $ 1,333.7 $ 1,267.5 $ 1,222.5 Operating Income $ 424.8 $ 409.1 $ 464.5 Operating Expenses Year ended December 31, 2011 vs. Year ended December 31, 2010 Operating expenses increased by $29.4 million, or 5%, for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to December 31, 2010. The increase was primarily due to the following: Increased data acquisition costs and fulfillment costs primarily associated with our acquisition of D&B Australia which we consolidated in the fourth quarter of 2010; 40 Table of Contents The negative impact of foreign exchange; and Increased costs associated with our Strategic Technology Investment designed to strengthen our leading position in commercial data and improve our current technology platform to meet emerging needs of customers. As part of our Strategic Technology Investment, which we refer to as MaxCV for Maximizing Customer Value, we are migrating customers to newer, and higher performing platforms, such as Hoovers, while we are shutting down legacy products that will not be supported by our new data supply chain; partially offset by: Impairment of certain intangible assets reflected in the year ended December 31, 2010 related to our 2007 Purisma acquisition (which was not repeated for the year ended December 31, 2011); Lower compensations costs; and Lower expenses as a result of our 2010 divestiture of our North American Self Awareness Solution business. Year ended December 31, 2010 vs. Year ended December 31, 2009 Operating expenses increased by $57.4 million, or 12%, for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to December 31, 2009. The increase was primarily due to the following: Increased data acquisition costs and fulfillment costs primarily associated with the following acquisitions: a) D&B Australia which we consolidated in the fourth quarter of 2010; b) ICC which we consolidated in the third quarter of 2009; and our majority owned joint venture with RoadWay in China which we consolidated in the third quarter of 2009; Increased costs associated with our investments, including $30.3 million for our Strategic Technology Investment or MaxCV designed to strengthen our leading position in commercial data and improve our current technology platform to meet emerging needs of customers; Impairment of certain intangible assets related to our Purisma product; Increased compensation costs; and The negative impact of foreign exchange; partially offset by: Lower expenses related to our divestiture of the domestic portion of our Italian operations and our North American Self Awareness Solution business; and Our ongoing reengineering efforts. Selling and Administrative Expenses Year ended December 31, 2011 vs. Year ended December 31, 2010 Selling and administrative expenses increased $16.5 million, or 3%, for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to December 31, 2010. The increase was primarily due to the following: Increased selling expenses primarily associated with our acquisition of D&B Australia, which we consolidated in the fourth quarter of 2010; and The negative impact of foreign exchange; 41 Table of Contents partially offset by: Lower expenses as a result of our divestiture of our North American Self Awareness Solution business. Year ended December 31, 2010 vs. Year ended December 31, 2009 Selling and administrative expenses decreased $14.1 million, or 2%, for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to December 31, 2009. The decrease was primarily due to the following: Lower expenses related to our divestiture of our North American Self Awareness Solution business and the domestic portion of our Italian operations; and Our ongoing reengineering efforts; partially offset by: Increased selling expenses primarily associated with the following acquisitions: a) D&B Australia which we consolidated in the fourth quarter of 2010; b) ICC which we consolidated in the third quarter of 2009; and our majority owned joint venture with RoadWay in China which we consolidated in the third quarter of 2009; Increased costs due to our product investments, including $5.5 million for our Strategic Technology Investment or MaxCV designed to strengthen our leading position in commercial data and improve our current technology platform to meet emerging needs of customers; Impairment of certain intangible assets related to our QED acquisition completed in the first quarter of 2009; and The negative impact of foreign exchange. Matters Impacting Both Operating Expenses and Selling and Administrative Expenses Pension, Postretirement and 401(k) Plan For our pension plans globally, we had a net pension periodic cost of $7.1 million, $5.8 million and $6.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The fluctuation in the pension cost was due to the following: Expected return on plan assets is a major component of the net pension periodic cost. Expected return on plan assets included in annual pension expense for all global plans was $110.4 million, $113.4 million and $115.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The expected return on plan assets was determined by multiplying the expected long term rate of return assumption by the market related value of plan assets. The market related value of plan assets recognizes asset gains and losses over five years to reduce the effects of short term market fluctuations on net periodic cost. The decrease of expected return on plan assets was primarily due to lower market related value of plan assets driven by the asset loss incurred in 2008. Actuarial loss amortization included in annual pension expense was also a major factor in driving the pension costs to fluctuate from year to year. Actuarial loss amortization was largely impacted by the discount rate, amortization period and plan experience. The lower the discount rate, the higher the loss amortization. Actuarial loss amortization included in annual pension expense for all global plans was $26.4 million, $21.5 million and $22.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, of which $24.5 million, $19.0 million and $21.5 million were attributable to our U.S. plans for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Higher actuarial loss amortization in the U.S. plans was primarily due to lower discount rates applied to our plans at January 1, 2011 and higher actuarial losses subject to amortization. Lower actuarial loss amortization in the U.S. plans in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily driven by a longer amortization period 42 Table of Contents applied to the U.S. Qualified Plan, substantially offset by the impact of lower discount rates applied to our plans at January 1, 2010 and higher actuarial losses subject to amortization. Starting in November 2009, the amortization period applied to the unrecognized actuarial gains or losses for our U.S. Qualified Plan has been changed from average future service years of active participants to average life expectancy of all plan participants. The change was the result of almost all the plan participants being deemed inactive. The discount rate used to measure the pension costs for our U.S. plans for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was 5.06%, 5.72% and 6.10%, respectively. The fluctuation in actuarial loss amortization was substantially offset by lower interest cost, a component of net periodic pension costs. Interest cost included in the net periodic pension costs was $85.0 million, $91.3 million and $90.7 million, respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, of which $73.0 million, $78.4 million and $79.2 million, respectively, were attributable to our U.S. plans for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. Decrease of interest cost for our U.S. plans was due to lower discount rates. We expect that the net pension cost in 2012 will be approximately $17.4 million for all of our global pension plans, of which approximately $13 million and $5 million will be attributable to the U.S. plans and non U.S. plans, respectively. This compares to a net pension cost of $7.1 million in 2011, of which $2.2 million and $4.9 million attributable to the U.S. plans and non U.S. plans, respectively. For our U.S. plans, the increase in pension cost in 2012 is primarily driven by lower expected return from plan assets. For 2012, we will use an expected long term rate of return of 7.75%, a 50 basis points decrease, from 8.25% used for 2011. Additionally, lower expected return from plan assets is also due to lower market related value of plan assets, which will increase our 2012 net pension cost. Higher actuarial losses amortization in 2012 will be substantially offset by lower interest cost, both driven by a lower discount rate. The discount rate applied to our U.S. plans at January 1, 2012 is 4.05%, a 101 basis points decrease from the 5.06% discount rate used for 2011. We had postretirement benefit income of $11.0 million, $7.0 million and $1.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Higher income in 2011 compared to 2010 was primarily due to higher amortization of prior service credits. Effective July 1, 2010, in connection with the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, we converted the then current prescription drug program for retirees over 65 to a group based company sponsored Medicare Part D program, or EGWP. Beginning in 2013, we will use the Part D subsidies delivered through the EGWP each year to reduce net company retiree medical costs until net company costs are completely eliminated. At that time, the Part D subsidies will be shared with retirees going forward to reduce retiree contributions. As a result, we reduced our accumulated postretirement obligation by $21 million in the third quarter of 2010, which will be amortized over approximately four years. Higher income in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to higher amortization of prior service credits. During the first quarter of 2010, the retiree company paid life insurance benefits were eliminated. In addition, we will only share the minimum necessary amount of subsidy received from the government in any year to maintain actuarial equivalence for as long as possible. This plan change was approved in December 2009 and as a result we reduced our accumulated postretirement obligation by approximately $20 million at December 31, 2009, which will be amortized over approximately four years. Both plan changes were accounted for as plan amendments under ASC 715 60 35, Compensation Retirement Benefits. We expect postretirement benefit income will be approximately $11 million in 2012, essentially the same as 2011. We had expense associated with our 401(k) Plan of $15.7 million, $9.7 million and $6.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in expense in 2011 was due to a higher discretionary company contribution of $7.8 million resulting from company performance, compared to $4.5 million in 2010. In addition, we amended our employer matching provision in the 401(k) Plan, effective in 43 Table of Contents April 2010, to increase the employer maximum match from 50% of three percent (3%) to 50% of seven percent (7%) of a team members eligible compensation, subject to certain 401(k) Plan limitations. The increase in expense in 2010 from 2009 was due to an incremental discretionary company contribution of $4.5 million resulting from company performance as well as the increased employer maximum match percentage resulting from the plan amendment as described above effective in April 2010. We consider net pension cost and postretirement benefit income to be part of our compensation costs, and, therefore, they are included in operating expenses and in selling and administrative expenses, based upon the classifications of the underlying compensation costs. See the discussion of Our Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligations, above, and Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Stock Based Compensation For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recognized total stock based compensation expense (e.g., stock options, restricted stock, etc.) of $12.4 million, $18.3 million and $22.3 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recognized expense associated with our stock option programs of $4.1 million, $6.5 million and $9.5 million, respectively. The decrease for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily due to a decrease in the fair value of the stock options issued over the past several years. The decrease for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to December 31, 2009, was primarily driven by our forfeiture assumption true up as well as the continuing impact of the decrease in the overall number of employees eligible for stock options. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recognized expense associated with our restricted stock, restricted stock units and restricted stock opportunity programs of $7.5 million, $11.0 million and $11.9 million, respectively. The decrease for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily due to a decrease in the fair value of the awards issued over the past several years as well as lower expense as a result of higher forfeitures associated with terminated employees. The decrease for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to December 31, 2009, was primarily driven by lower expense as a result of higher forfeitures associated with terminated employees as well as fewer awards being issued in 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009, partially offset by the accelerated expensing of an award issued to a retiree eligible executive. For the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, we recognized expense associated with our Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) of $0.8 million, $0.8 million and $0.9 million, respectively. We consider these costs to be part of our compensation costs and, therefore, they are included in operating expenses and in selling and administrative expenses, based upon the classifications of the underlying compensation costs. Depreciation and Amortization Year ended December 31, 2011 vs. Year ended December 31, 2010 Depreciation and amortization increased $13.0 million, or 19%, for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in amortization of acquired intangible assets resulting from our acquisitions and increased capital costs for investments to enhance our strategic capabilities (e.g., Strategic Technology Investment or MaxCV). Year ended December 31, 2010 vs. Year ended December 31, 2009 Depreciation and amortization increased $10.0 million, or 17%, for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to December 31, 2009. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2010 was primarily driven by an 44 Table of Contents increase in amortization of acquired intangible assets resulting from our acquisitions and our majority owned joint ventures, increased capital costs for revenue generating investments to enhance our strategic capabilities and our Strategic Technology Investment or MaxCV. This increase was partially offset by a reassessment in 2009 of the useful lives of our computer software (discussed in further detail below). We review the estimated remaining useful lives of our computer software and may extend the useful life when events and circumstances indicate the computer software can operate beyond its original or current useful life. Prior to the second quarter of 2009, the useful life of computer software assets was typically three to five years. We now expect the useful life of our back end and back office software to be in the range of five to eight years, and we have extended the useful lives accordingly. This reassessment included a review of the major components of our strategy and consideration of the effects of obsolescence, technology, competition and other economic factors on the useful life of these assets. The impact of this change was effective in the second quarter of 2009, and the impact for the year ended December 31, 2009 was a reduction in software amortization expense by approximately $7 million after tax ($0.14 per diluted share). Restructuring Charge Financial Flexibility is an ongoing process by which we seek to reallocate our spending from low growth or low value activities to other activities that will create greater value for shareholders through enhanced revenue growth, improved profitability and or quality improvements. With most initiatives, we have incurred restructuring charges (which generally consist of employee severance and termination costs, contract terminations, asset write offs, and or costs to terminate lease obligations less assumed sublease income). These charges are incurred as a result of eliminating, consolidating, standardizing and or automating our business functions. Restructuring charges have been recorded in accordance with ASC 712 10, Nonretirement Postemployment Benefits, or ASC 712 10, and or ASC 420 10, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations, or ASC 420 10, as appropriate. We record severance costs provided under an ongoing benefit arrangement once they are both probable and estimable in accordance with the provisions of ASC 712 10. We account for one time termination benefits, contract terminations, asset write offs, and or costs to terminate lease obligations less assumed sublease income in accordance with ASC 420 10, which addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with restructuring activities. Under ASC 420 10, we establish a liability for cost associated with an exit or disposal activity, including severance and lease termination obligations, and other related costs, when the liability is incurred, rather than at the date that we commit to an exit plan. We reassess the expected cost to complete the exit or disposal activities at the end of each reporting period and adjust our remaining estimated liabilities, if necessary. The determination of when we accrue for severance costs and which standard applies depends on whether the termination benefits are provided under an ongoing arrangement as described in ASC 712 10 or under a one time benefit arrangement as defined by ASC 420 10. Inherent in the estimation of the costs related to the restructurings are assessments related to the most likely expected outcome of the significant actions to accomplish the exit activities. In determining the charges related to the restructurings, we had to make estimates related to the expenses associated with the restructurings. These estimates may vary significantly from actual costs depending, in part, upon factors that may be beyond our control. We will continue to review the status of our restructuring obligations on a quarterly basis and, if appropriate, record changes to these obligations in current operations based on managements most current estimates. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded a $22.1 million restructuring charge in connection with Financial Flexibility initiatives. The significant components of these charges included: Severance and termination costs of $17.5 million in accordance with the provisions of ASC 712 10 were recorded. Approximately 400 employees were impacted. Of these 400 employees, approximately 305 45 Table of Contents employees have exited the Company in 2011 and approximately 95 employees will exit the Company in 2012. The cash payments for these employees will be substantially completed by the third quarter of 2012; and Lease termination obligations, other costs to consolidate or close facilities and other exit costs of $4.6 million. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we recorded a $14.8 million restructuring charge in connection with Financial Flexibility initiatives. The significant components of these charges included: Severance and termination costs of $11.7 million in accordance with the provisions of ASC 712 10 were recorded. Approximately 325 employees were impacted. Of these 325 employees, approximately 315 employees exited the Company in 2010 and approximately 10 employees exited the Company in 2011. The cash payments for these employees was substantially completed by the second quarter of 2011; and Lease termination obligations, other costs to consolidate or close facilities and other exit costs of $3.1 million. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded a $23.1 million restructuring charge in connection with Financial Flexibility initiatives. The significant components of these charges included: Severance and termination costs of $12.7 million in accordance with the provisions of ASC 712 10 were recorded. Approximately 535 employees were impacted. Of these 535 employees, approximately 365 employees exited the Company in 2009 and approximately 170 employees exited the Company in 2010. The cash payments for these employees was substantially completed by the third quarter of 2010; and Lease termination obligations, other costs to consolidate or close facilities and other exit costs of $10.4 million. Interest Income (Expense) Net The following table presents our Interest Income (Expense) Net: For the Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Amounts in millions) Interest Income $ 1.5 $ 2.1 $ 3.0 Interest Expense (37.0 ) (46.0 ) (45.7 ) Interest Income (Expense) Net $ (35.5 ) $ (43.9 ) $ (42.7 ) Interest income decreased $0.6 million, or 29%, for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to December 31, 2010. The decrease in interest income is primarily attributable to lower average amounts of invested balances. Interest income decreased $0.9 million, or 30%, for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to December 31, 2009. The decrease in interest income is primarily attributable to lower average interest rates. Interest expense decreased by $9.0 million, or 20%, for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to December 31, 2010. The decrease in interest expense is primarily attributable to lower average interest rates and lower amounts of average debt outstanding. Interest expense increased by $0.3 million, or 1%, for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to December 31, 2009. The increase in interest expense is primarily attributable to higher amounts of average debt outstanding partially offset by lower average interest rates. 46 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense) Net The following table presents the components of Other Income (Expense) Net: For the Years EndedDecember 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Amounts in millions) Effect of Legacy Tax Matters(a) $ (7.1 ) $ (0.4 ) $ 1.0 Gain on Disposal of North American Self Awareness Solutions Business(b) 0.0 23.1 0.0 One Time Gain on Hedge of Purchase Price on the Australia Acquisition(c) 0.0 3.4 0.0 Gain on Disposal of Italian Domestic Business(d) 0.0 0.0 6.5 Settlement of Legacy Tax Matter Arbitration(e) 0.0 0.0 4.1 Loss On Investment(f) (11.4 ) 0.0 0.0 Miscellaneous Other Income (Expense) Net(g) (2.7 ) (3.4 ) (0.9 ) Other Income (Expense) Net $ (21.2 ) $ 22.7 $ 10.7 (a) During the year ended December 30, 2011, we recognized the reduction of a contractual receipt under the Tax Allocation Agreement between Moodys Corporation and D&B as it related to the expiration of the statute of limitations. See Provision for Income Taxes below. Effect of Legacy Tax Matters decreased for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to an agreement to pay Moodys Corporation $2.5 million as it relates to the Tax Allocation Agreement, which we paid in February 2011. See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. (b) During the year ended December 31, 2010, we recognized a gain from the divestiture of our North American Self Awareness Solution business. See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. (c) During the year ended December 31, 2010, we recognized a gain resulting from a hedge on the purchase price of D&B Australia during the third quarter of 2010. See Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. (d) During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recognized a gain as a result of the divestiture of the domestic portion of our Italian operations. See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. (e) During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recognized gains on the receipt of awards related to Legacy Tax Matters. (f) During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recognized an impairment primarily related to a 2008 investment in a research and development data firm as a result of its financial condition and our focus on our Strategic Technology Investment or MaxCV program (maximize customer value strategy). (g) Miscellaneous Other Income (Expense) Net, decreased for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the year ended December 31, 2010, primarily due to costs in the prior year related to a premium payment of $3.7 million made for the redemption of the $300 million senior notes with a maturity date of March 25, 2011 (the 2011 notes), partially offset by the negative impact of foreign exchange. Miscellaneous Other Income (Expense) Net increased for the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to the premium payment of $3.7 million made for the redemption of the $300 million senior notes. See Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 47 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Effective Tax Rate for the Year Ended December 31, 2009 25.9 % Impact From Worldwide Legal Entity Simplification(1) 9.5 % Impact of Legacy Tax Matters (4.0 )% Reduction of a Deferred Tax Asset Resulting from the Healthcare Act of 2010 3.7 % Other 0.4 % Effective Tax Rate for the Year Ended December 31, 2010 35.5 % Impact of Loss on Investment (2.1 )% Impact of Legacy Tax Matters (3.5 )% Other (0.2 )% Effective Tax Rate for the Year Ended December 31, 2011 29.7 % (1) In 2009, we completed a one time reorganization of a historical U.S. legal entity structure that resulted in a reduction of the number of our legal entities and that involved the intercompany issuance of Series B Preferred Stock. See Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further detail. We expect our tax rate from ongoing operations to have a beneficial impact beginning 2014 as we expect to (a) create a global center of excellence for product innovation; (b) in source, centralize and streamline certain of our business operations; and (c) reduce our operating costs of our business. Earnings Per Share In accordance with authoritative guidance in ASC 260 10, we are required to assess if any of our share based payment transactions are deemed participating securities prior to vesting and therefore need to be included in the earnings allocation when computing EPS under the two class method. The two class method requires earnings to be allocated between common shareholders and holders of participating securities. All outstanding unvested share based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends are considered to be a separate class of common stock and should be included in the calculation of basic and diluted EPS. Based on a review of our stock based awards, we have determined that only our restricted stock awards are deemed participating securities. The weighted average restricted shares outstanding were 66,495 shares, 196,175 shares and 361,900 shares for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The following table sets forth our EPS: For Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Basic Earnings Per Share of Common Stock Attributable to D&B Common Shareholders $ 5.31 $ 5.03 $ 6.06 Diluted Earnings Per Share of Common Stock Attributable to D&B Common Shareholders $ 5.28 $ 4.98 $ 5.99 For the year ended December 31, 2011, both basic EPS attributable to D&B common shareholders and diluted EPS attributable to D&B common shareholders increased 6% compared with the year ended December 31, 2010, primarily due to a 3% increase in Net Income Attributable to D&B and a 2% reduction in the weighted number of basic and diluted shares outstanding resulting from our total share repurchases. For the year ended December 31, 2010, both basic EPS attributable to D&B common shareholders and diluted EPS attributable to D&B common shareholders decreased 17%, compared with the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to a 21% decrease in Net Income Attributable to D&B, partially offset by a 5% reduction in the weighted average number of basic and diluted shares outstanding resulting from our total share repurchases. 48 Table of Contents Segment Results Effective January 1, 2011, we began reporting our business through three segments: North America (which consists of our operations in the U.S. and Canada); Asia Pacific (which primarily consists of our operations in Australia, Japan, China and India); and Europe and other International Markets (which primarily consists of our operations in the UK, the Netherlands, Belgium, Latin America and our Worldwide Network). We have reported financial results in this new segment structure beginning with the results for the year ended December 31, 2011 and have conformed historical amounts to reflect the new segment structure. Prior to January 1, 2011, we managed and reported our business globally through two segments: North America (which consisted of our operations in the U.S. and Canada); and International (which consisted of our operations in Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America). The financial statements of our subsidiaries outside of North America reflect a fiscal year ended November 30 to facilitate the timely reporting of our consolidated financial results and financial position. The segments reported below are our segments for which separate financial information is available and upon which operating results are evaluated on a timely basis to assess performance and to allocate resources. North America North America is our largest segment representing 71%, 75% and 78% of our total and core revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. On July 30, 2010, we completed the sale of substantially all of the assets and liabilities of our North American Self Awareness Solution business. This business has been classified as a Divested Business. See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further detail. This divested business contributed 2% and 5% of our North America total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The following table presents our North America revenue by customer solution set and North America operating income. Additionally, this table reconciles the non GAAP measure of core revenue to the GAAP measure of total revenue by customer solution set: For the Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Amounts in millions) Revenue: Risk Management Solutions $ 730.8 $ 731.5 $ 739.3 Sales & Marketing Solutions 396.0 386.5 385.5 Internet Solutions 120.0 111.5 114.6 North America Core Revenue 1,246.8 1,229.5 1,239.4 Divested Business 0.0 32.9 70.3 North America Total Revenue $ 1,246.8 $ 1,262.4 $ 1,309.7 Operating Income $ 480.1 $ 452.2 $ 482.5 49 Table of Contents Year ended December 31, 2011 vs. Year ended December 31, 2010 North America Overview North America total revenue decreased $15.6 million, or 1% (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange), for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. North America total revenue was negatively impacted by the divestiture of our North American Self Awareness Solution business in the third quarter of 2010, which we reclassified as a divested business and which accounted for $32.9 million in revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010. Excluding the impact of the divestiture, core revenue increased $17.3 million, or 1% (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange) for the year ended December 31, 2011. North America Customer Solution Sets On a customer solution set basis, the $17.3 million increase in core revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010, reflects: Risk Management Solutions A decrease in Risk Management Solutions of $0.7 million, or virtually flat (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange). For the year ended December 31, 2011, Traditional Risk Management Solutions, which accounted for 68% of total North America Risk Management Solutions, decreased 1% (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange). The decrease was primarily due to lower revenue from non subscription transaction products, partially offset by year over year growth in our DNBi subscription plans. The increase in DNBi was driven by continued high retention and increased dollar spend for our existing customers. For the year ended December 31, 2011, Value Added Risk Management Solutions, which accounted for 24% of total North America Risk Management Solutions, increased 2% (1% increase before the effect of foreign exchange). The slight increase was primarily due to: More upfront revenue recognition on the existing customer set as a result of allocation of revenue in an arrangement using the best estimated selling price; and A shift in product mix from our Traditional Sales & Marketing Solutions to our Value Added Risk Management Solutions; partially offset by: decline in growth because of lack of innovation in Risk Management Solutions resulting from our strategic decision to move Risk Management Solution innovation to our state of the art application development center in Dublin, Ireland. For the year ended December 31, 2011, Supply Management Solutions, which accounted for 8% of total North America Risk Management Solutions, increased 4% (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange) on a small base. Sales & Marketing Solutions An increase in Sales & Marketing Solutions of $9.5 million, or 3% (2% increase before the effect of foreign exchange). 50 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2011, Traditional Sales & Marketing Solutions, which accounted for 28% of total North America Sales & Marketing Solutions, decreased 14% (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange). The decrease was primarily due to: Lower purchases from our customers due to a slow economic recovery and continued budgetary pressures; Our decision to stop selling certain legacy products and convert the existing customer base as well as new prospects to Hoovers solutions; and A shift in product mix from our Traditional Sales & Marketing Solutions to our Value Added Risk Management Solutions. For the year ended December 31, 2011, Value Added Sales & Marketing Solutions, which accounted for 72% of total North America Sales & Marketing Solutions, increased 11% (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange). The increase was primarily due to: Broad growth in our products as a result of increased commitments primarily related to our Optimizer and D&B360 products, and More upfront revenue recognition on the existing customer set as a result of allocation of revenue in an arrangement using the best estimated selling price. Internet Solutions An increase in Internet Solutions of $8.5 million, or 8% (7% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), as a result of increased customer acquisitions driven by our innovation at Hoovers, continued growth in our subscription revenue at Hoovers as customers see our improved value proposition and migration by certain customers from Traditional Sales & Marketing Solutions. Partially offsetting the increase were lower purchases of our internet advertising solutions. North America Operating Income North America operating income for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $480.1 million, compared to $452.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase of $27.9 million, or 6%. The increase in operating income was primarily attributable to: Costs in the prior year for the impairment of intangible assets related to our 2007 Purisma and 2009 Quality Education Data acquisitions; Lower costs as a result of the divestiture of our North American Self Awareness Solution business; and Lower costs as a result of our continuous reengineering efforts; partially offset by: A decrease in North America total revenue; Increased investment expense; and Impairment of intangible assets related to our 2007 AllBusiness.com, Inc. acquisition. Year ended December 31, 2010 vs. Year ended December 31, 2009 North America Overview North America total revenue decreased $47.3 million, or 4% (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange), for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. North America total revenue was negatively impacted by the divestiture of our North American Self Awareness 51 Table of Contents Solution business in the third quarter of 2010, which we reclassified as a divested business and which accounted for $32.9 million and $70.3 million in revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Excluding the impact of the divestiture, core revenue decreased $9.9 million, or 1% (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange). North America Customer Solution Sets On a customer solution set basis, the $9.9 million decrease in core revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009, reflects: Risk Management Solutions A decrease in Risk Management Solutions of $7.8 million, or 1% (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange). For the year ended December 31, 2010, Traditional Risk Management Solutions, which accounted for 68% of total North America Risk Management Solutions, decreased 2% (3% decrease before the effect of foreign exchange). The decrease was primarily due to: Lower volumes of credit origination resulting in lower transactional volumes as well as a lower demand in earlier periods for our ratable subscription products; partially offset by: Year over year growth in our subscription plans for DNBi throughout 2010 due to continued high retention and increased dollar spend per customer resulting from an increased emphasis on our value proposition; and higher purchases from our existing customers as they converted from our legacy products to subscription plans for DNBi, including the customers who previously purchased value added solutions. These subscription plans provide our customers with unlimited use of our Risk Management reports and data. For the year ended December 31, 2010, Value Added Risk Management Solutions, which accounted for 23% of total North America Risk Management Solutions, remained flat compared to the prior year. This was primarily due to: Lower volumes of credit origination due to the macroeconomic environment has translated into lower transactional volumes as well as a lower demand in earlier periods for our ratable subscription products (as noted above); and A shift in product mix to our DNBi subscriptions plans from our Value Added Risk Management Solutions to our Traditional Risk Management Solutions (as noted above); partially offset by: Higher purchases from existing customers of modules enabled by our DNBi platform which are included in our Value Added Risk Management Solutions; and Increased sales to existing customers of Value Added credit decisioning solutions. For the year ended December 31, 2010, Supply Management Solutions, which accounted for 9% of total North America Risk Management Solutions, increased 8% (7% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), on a small base. 52 Table of Contents Sales & Marketing Solutions An increase in Sales & Marketing Solutions of $1.0 million, or less than 1% (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange). For the year ended December 31, 2010, Traditional Sales & Marketing Solutions, which accounted for 33% of total North America Sales & Marketing Solutions, decreased 11% (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange). The decrease was primarily due to: Lower purchases from our customers due to a weak economy and budgetary pressures. These budgetary pressures have caused our customers to further focus their marketing efforts and, in some cases, shift from direct mail activities to digital marketing to reduce costs; partially offset by: Increased revenue to existing customers in our education marketing solutions business; and Increased revenue associated with our acquisition of QED completed in the first quarter of 2009, which contributed one point of the growth. For the year ended December 31, 2010, Value Added Sales & Marketing Solutions, which accounted for 67% of total North America Sales & Marketing Solutions, increased 7% (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange). The increase was primarily due to: Increased cross selling of our Sales & Marketing Solutions value added solutions into our customer base, and cross selling within the Sales & Marketing Solutions value added solutions customer base (including the cross selling of new solutions for digital marketing); New customer acquisition and increased commitments within certain of our solutions; and A timing benefit from a significant customer consolidating the contractual expiration dates for multiple contracts, some of which would have renewed in future periods; partially offset by: Lower purchases of our value added products due to budgetary pressures on our customers. In this environment customers are continuing to defer or decrease spend or not renew. Internet Solutions A decrease in Internet Solutions of $3.1 million, or 3% (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange), as a result of a decline in our 2009 subscription renewal sales and a loss of a large customer deal not renewing. North America Operating Income North America operating income for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $452.2 million, compared to $482.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of $30.3 million, or 6%. The decrease in operating income was primarily attributable to: A decrease in North America total revenue; Impairment of intangible assets related to our Purisma product and QED acquisition; and Increased costs associated with our investments; 53 Table of Contents partially offset by: Lower costs as a result of our ongoing reengineering efforts and decreased variable expenses (e.g., commissions, etc.); and Lower costs as a result of our divestiture of our North American Self Awareness Solution business. Asia Pacific Asia Pacific represented 15%, 10% and 8% of our total and core revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The percentage change in our Asia Pacific revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010, was primarily impacted by the acquisition of D&B Australia, which we consolidated in the fourth quarter of 2010. There were no divestitures within this segment during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009. The following table presents our Asia Pacific revenue by customer solution set and Asia Pacific operating income: For the Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Amounts in Millions) Revenue Risk Management Solutions $ 174.3 $ 101.3 $ 74.5 Sales & Marketing Solutions 83.9 68.3 54.5 Internet Solutions 1.0 1.2 1.0 Asia Pacific Total and Core Revenue $ 259.2 $ 170.8 $ 130.0 Operating Income $ 16.2 $ 7.1 $ 17.2 Year ended December 31, 2011 vs. Year ended December 31, 2010 Asia Pacific Overview Asia Pacific total and core revenue increased $88.4 million, or 52% (43% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. The acquisitions of D&B Australia and MicroMarketing contributed thirty seven and one percentage points of growth (before the impact of foreign exchange), respectively, to total Asia Pacific revenue growth during the year ended December 31, 2011. Asia Pacific Customer Solution Sets On a customer solution set basis, the $88.4 million increase in Asia Pacific core revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010, reflects: Risk Management Solutions An increase in Risk Management Solutions of $73.0 million, or 72% (62% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), primarily due to the acquisition of D&B Australia, which we consolidated in the fourth quarter of 2010. For the year ended December 31, 2011, Traditional Risk Management Solutions, which accounted for 97% of Asia Pacific Risk Management Solutions, increased 73% (63% increase before the effect of foreign exchange). The increase in Traditional Risk Management Solutions was primarily due to: Increased revenue as a result of the acquisition of D&B Australia, which we consolidated in the fourth quarter of 2010; 54 Table of Contents The positive impact of foreign exchange; and Increased purchases by new and existing customers in certain of our markets; partially offset by: Lower usage from our customers in Japan as a result of the continued economic pressures as well as the impact of the natural disasters on their businesses. For the year ended December 31, 2011, Value Added Risk Management Solution, which accounted for 3% of Asia Pacific Risk Management Solutions, increased 48% (42% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), primarily due to increased revenue as a result of the acquisition of D&B Australia, which we consolidated in the fourth quarter of 2010. Sales & Marketing Solutions An increase in Sales and Marketing Solutions of $15.6 million, or 23% (17% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), reflects: For the year ended December 31, 2011, Traditional Sales & Marketing Solutions, which accounted for 63% of Asia Pacific Sales & Marketing Solutions, increased 37% (32% increase before the effect of foreign exchange). This increase was primarily due to: Increased purchases by new and existing customers in certain of our markets; An increase in revenue as a result of the acquisition of D&B Australia, which we consolidated in the fourth quarter of 2010; and The positive impact of foreign exchange. For the year ended December 31, 2011, Value Added Sales & Marketing Solutions, which accounted for 37% of Asia Pacific Sales & Marketing Solutions, increased 5% (4% decrease before the effect of foreign exchange). This was primarily due to: The positive impact of foreign exchange; and Increased revenue as a result of the acquisition of D&B Australia, which we consolidated in the fourth quarter of 2010; partially offset by: A previous loss of project revenue in our Japanese market. Internet Solutions A decrease in our Internet Solutions of $0.2 million, or 11% (12% decrease before the effect of foreign exchange), on a small base. Asia Pacific Operating Income Asia Pacific operating income for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $16.2 million, compared to $7.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, an increase of $9.1 million. The increase in operating income was primarily attributable to: Increased revenue as a result of the acquisition of D&B Australia, which we consolidated in the fourth quarter of 2010 and related operating costs; 55 Table of Contents partially offset by: An increase in data costs in certain of our Asia Pacific markets. Year ended December 31, 2010 vs. Year ended December 31, 2009 Asia Pacific Overview Asia Pacific total and core revenue increased $40.8 million, or 31% (26% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. The acquisition of D&B Australia contributed twenty one points of growth (before the impact of foreign exchange) to total revenue growth during the year ended December 31, 2010. Asia Pacific Customer Solution Sets On a customer solution set basis, the $40.8 million increase in Asia Pacific core revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009 reflects: Risk Management Solutions An increase in Risk Management Solutions of $26.8 million or 36% (31% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), primarily due to the acquisition of D&B Australia, which we consolidated in the fourth quarter of 2010. For the year ended December 31, 2010, Traditional Risk Management Solutions, which accounted for 96% of Asia Pacific Risk Management Solutions, increased 38% (32% increase before the effect of foreign exchange). The increase in Traditional Risk Management solutions was primarily due to: Increased revenue as a result of the acquisition of D&B Australia, which we consolidated in the fourth quarter of 2010; Increased revenue due to the launch of new products; and The positive impact of foreign exchange. For the year ended December 31, 2010, Value Added Risk Management Solutions, which accounted for 4% of Asia Pacific Risk Management Solutions, increased less than 1% (1% decrease before the effect of foreign exchange), on a small base. Sales & Marketing Solutions An increase in Sales and Marketing Solutions of $13.8 million, or 25% (21% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), reflects: For the year ended December 31, 2010, Traditional Sales & Marketing Solutions, which accounted for 57% of Asia Pacific Sales & Marketing Solutions, increased 47% (44% increase before the effect of foreign exchange). This increase was primarily due to: Increased revenue as a result of our majority owned joint venture with RoadWay in China, which we consolidated in the third quarter of 2009; and The positive impact of foreign exchange; partially offset by: A decrease in revenue in certain markets primarily due to competitive pressures and contract signing delays. 56 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2010, Value Added Sales & Marketing Solutions, which accounted for 43% of Asia Pacific Sales & Marketing Solutions, increased 5% (1% decrease before the effect of foreign exchange). This was primarily due to lower purchases by existing customers in certain of our Asia Pacific markets. Customers in this region are carefully managing their value added marketing spend due to continued economic pressures. Internet Solutions An increase in Internet Solutions of $0.2 million, or 3% (3% decrease before the effect of foreign exchange), on a small base. Asia Pacific Operating Income Asia Pacific operating income for the year ended December 31, 2010 was $7.1 million, compared to $17.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of $10.1 million. The decrease was primarily attributable to: Revenue decline in certain of our Asia Pacific markets, where expenses are more fixed in nature; and Increased costs (e.g., data costs, compensations and office building expenses). Europe and Other International Markets Europe and Other International Markets represented 14%, 15% and 14% of our total and core revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. On May 29, 2009, we completed the sale of substantially all the assets and liabilities of the domestic portion of our Italian operations. This sale has been classified as a Divested Business. See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further detail. This divested business contributed 9% of Europe and Other International Markets for the year ended December 31, 2009. The following table presents our Europe and Other International Markets revenue by customer solution set and Europe and Other International Markets operating income. Additionally, this table reconciles the non GAAP measure of core revenue to the GAAP measure of total revenue by customer solution set: For the Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Amounts in Millions) Revenue Risk Management Solutions $ 209.3 $ 203.9 $ 188.4 Sales & Marketing Solutions 40.9 37.3 34.6 Internet Solutions 2.3 2.2 2.4 Europe and Other International Markets Core Revenue 252.5 243.4 225.4 Divested Business 0.0 0.0 21.9 Europe and Other International Markets Total Revenue $ 252.5 $ 243.4 $ 247.3 Operating Income $ 55.9 $ 64.5 $ 63.9 57 Table of Contents Year ended December 31, 2011 vs. Year ended December 31, 2010 Europe and Other International Markets Overview Europe and Other International Markets total revenue and core revenue increased $9.1 million, or 4% (less than 1% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), for the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. Europe and Other International Markets Customer Solution Sets On a customer solution set basis, the $9.1 million increase in Europe and Other International Markets core revenue for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010 reflects: Risk Management Solutions An increase in Risk Management Solutions of $5.4 million, or 3% (1% decrease before the effect of foreign exchange) and reflects: For the year ended December 31, 2011, Traditional Risk Management Solutions, which accounted for 79% of Europe and Other International Markets Risk Management Solutions, decreased 1% (4% decrease before the effect of foreign exchange). The decrease is primarily due to: Lower transactional volumes as well as slower customer penetration for our ratable subscription products (e.g. DNBi) in certain of our markets, primarily in our UK market; partially offset by: The positive impact of foreign exchange. For the year ended December 31, 2011, Value Added Risk Management Solutions, which accounted for 20% of Europe and Other International Markets Risk Management Solutions, increased 17% (13% increase before the effect of foreign exchange). The increase is primarily due to: Increased purchases as a result of new project oriented business; and The positive impact of foreign exchange. For the year ended December 31, 2011, Supply Management Solutions, which accounted for 1% of Europe and Other International Markets Risk Management Solutions, increased 13% (7% increase before the effect of foreign exchange) on a small base. Sales & Marketing Solutions An increase in Sales & Marketing Solutions of $3.6 million, or 9% (6% increase before the effect of foreign exchange), reflects: For the year ended December 31, 2011, Traditional Sales & Marketing Solutions, which accounted for 65% of Europe and Other International Markets Sales & Marketing Solutions, increased 18% (15% increase before the effect of foreign exchange). This increase was primarily due to increased purchases in our UK market from our existing customer base. For the year ended December 31, 2011, Value Added Sales & Marketing Solutions, which accounted for 35% of Europe and Other International Markets Sales & Marketing Solutions, decreased 4% (7% decrease before the effect of foreign exchange) on a small base. 58 Table of Contents Internet Solutions An increase in Internet Solutions of $0.1 million, or 1% (2% decrease before the effect of foreign exchange) on a small base. Europe and Other International Markets Operating Income Europe and Other International Markets operating income for the year ended December 31, 2011, was $55.9 million, compared to $64.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, a decrease of $8.6 million, or 13%. The decrease is primarily attributable to: Increased operating expenses (e.g., data costs); and Higher year over year depreciation and amortization related to the roll out of DNBi; partially offset by: An increase in revenue. Year ended December 31, 2010 vs. Year ended December 31, 2009 Europe and Other International Markets Overview Europe and Other International Markets total revenue decreased $3.9 million, or 2% (less than 1% decrease before the effect of foreign exchange), for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. Europe and Other International Markets was impacted by the divestiture of the domestic portion of our Italian operations in the second quarter 2009, which we reclassified as a divested business and accounted for $21.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Excluding the impact of the divestiture, core revenue increased $18.0 million, or 8% (10% increase before the effect of foreign exchange). Europe and Other International Markets Customer Solution Sets On a customer solution set basis, the $18.0 million increase in Europe and Other International Markets core revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009 reflects: Risk Management Solutions An increase in Risk Management Solutions of $15.5 million, or 8% (10% increase before the effect of foreign exchange). For the year ended December 31, 2010, Traditional Risk Management Solutions, which accounted for 81% of Europe and Other International Markets Risk Management Solutions, increased 11% (13% increase before the effect of foreign exchange). The increase is primarily due to: Increased revenue as a result of the acquisition of ICC which we consolidated in the third quarter of 2009; this contributed eight points of growth; and Increased revenue from providing cross border data to members of our D&B Worldwide Network attributable to fulfillment services and product usage and our commercial agreement to provide global data entered into in connection with our divestiture of the domestic portion of our Italian operations. For the year ended December 31, 2010, Value Added Risk Management Solutions, which accounted for 17% of Europe and Other International Markets Risk Management Solutions, decreased 2% (1% decrease before the effect of foreign exchange). The decrease is primarily due to: Decreased purchases in certain of our markets by our customers due to economic and budgetary pressures; 59 Table of Contents partially offset by: Our commercial agreement to provide global data entered into in connection with our divestiture of the domestic portion of our Italian operations. For the year ended December 31, 2010, Supply Management Solutions, which accounted for 2% of Europe and Other International Markets Risk Management Solutions, increased 8% (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange). Sales & Marketing Solutions An increase in Sales & Marketing Solutions of $2.7 million, or 8% (9% increase before the effect of foreign exchange). For the year ended December 31, 2010, Traditional Sales & Marketing Solutions, which accounted for 60% of Europe and Other International Markets Sales & Marketing Solutions, increased 10% (11% increase before the effect of foreign exchange). This increase was primarily due to: Increased revenue as a result of the acquisition of ICC which we consolidated in the third quarter of 2009; this contributed seven points of growth; and Increased purchases by new and existing customers in certain of our markets; partially offset by: A decrease in revenue in certain markets primarily due to competitive pressures and signing delays. For the year ended December 31, 2010, Value Added Sales & Marketing Solutions, which accounted for 40% of Europe and Other International Markets Sales & Marketing Solutions, increased 6% (both before and after the effect of foreign exchange), primarily due to increased purchases from existing customers in our UK market. Internet Solutions A decrease in Internet Solutions of $0.2 million, or 3% (4% decrease before the effect of foreign exchange) on a small base. Europe and Other International Markets Operating Income For the year ended December 31, 2010, Europe and Other International Markets operating income for the year ended December 31, 2010, was $64.5 million, compared to $63.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, an increase of $0.6 million, or 1%. The decrease was primarily attributable to: The divestiture of the domestic portion of our Italian operations in the second quarter of 2009; partially offset by: Lower revenue. Market Risk We employ established policies and procedures to manage our exposure to changes in interest rates and foreign currencies. We use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge short term foreign currency denominated loans, investments and certain third party and intercompany transactions. We may also use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge our net investments in our foreign subsidiaries and foreign exchange option 60 Table of Contents contracts to reduce the volatility that fluctuating foreign exchange rates may have on our international earnings streams. In addition, we may use interest rate derivatives to hedge a portion of the interest rate exposure on our outstanding debt or in anticipation of a future debt issuance, as discussed under Interest Rate Risk Management below. We do not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. If a hedging instrument ceases to qualify as a hedge in accordance with hedge accounting guidelines, any subsequent gains and losses are recognized currently in income. Collateral is generally not required for these types of instruments. A discussion of our accounting policies for financial instruments is included in the summary of significant accounting policies in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, and further disclosure relating to financial instruments is included in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Interest Rate Risk Management Our objective in managing exposure to interest rates is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on our earnings, cash flows and financial position, and to lower overall borrowing costs. To achieve these objectives, we maintain a policy that floating rate debt be managed within a minimum and maximum range of our total debt exposure. To manage our exposure and limit volatility, we may use fixed rate debt, floating rate debt and or interest rate swaps. We recognize all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair value in the statement of financial position. Fair Value Hedges For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a fair value hedge, we assess quarterly whether the swaps are highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair value of the hedged debt. Changes in fair values of interest rate swap agreements that are designated fair value hedges are recognized in earnings as an adjustment of Other Income (Expense) Net in our consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income. The effectiveness of the hedge is monitored on an ongoing basis for hedge accounting purposes, and if the hedge is considered ineffective, we discontinue hedge accounting prospectively. In November 2010, we issued senior notes with a face value of $300 million that mature on November 15, 2015 (the 2015 notes). In November and December 2010, we entered into interest rate derivative transactions with aggregate notional amounts of $125 million. The objective of these hedges is to offset the change in fair value of the fixed rate 2015 notes attributable to changes in LIBOR. These transactions are accounted for as fair value hedges. We recognize the gain or loss on the derivative instrument, as well as the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item, in Other Income (Expense) Net in our consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income. Approximately $5.8 million of derivative gains offset by a $5.8 million loss on the fair value adjustment related to the hedged debt were recorded through December 31, 2011. Approximately $1.5 million of derivative losses offset by a $1.4 million gain on the fair value adjustment related to the hedged debt were recorded through December 31, 2010. Cash Flow Hedges For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the periodic hedge remeasurement gains or losses on the derivative are reported as a component of other comprehensive income and reclassified to earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. Gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in current earnings. In January 2009 and December 2008, we entered into interest rate swap agreements with aggregate notional amounts of $25 million and $75 million, respectively, and designated these interest rate swaps as cash flow 61 Table of Contents hedges against variability in cash flows related to our then existing $650 million credit facility. These transactions are accounted for as cash flow hedges and, as such, changes in the fair value of the hedges are recorded in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI). In connection with the termination of the $650 million credit facility, these interest rate derivative transactions were terminated, resulting in an acceleration of payments otherwise due under the instruments of $0.3 million on October 25, 2011, the credit facility termination date and were recorded in Other Income (Expense) Net in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income. A 100 basis point increase/decrease in the weighted average interest rate on our outstanding debt subject to rate variability at December 31, 2011 would result in incremental increase/decrease in annual interest expense of approximately $3.8 million. Foreign Exchange Risk Management We have numerous offices in various countries outside North America and conduct operations in various countries through minority equity investments and strategic relationships with local providers. Our operations outside of North America generated approximately 29% and 25% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Approximately 42% and 45% of our assets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively, were located outside of the U.S. Our objective in managing exposure to foreign currency fluctuations is to reduce the volatility caused by foreign exchange rate changes on the earnings, cash flows and financial position of our international operations. We follow a policy of hedging balance sheet positions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency applicable to each of our various subsidiaries. In addition, we are subject to foreign exchange risk associated with our international earnings and net investments in our foreign subsidiaries. We use short term, foreign exchange forward and option contracts to execute our hedging strategies. Typically, these contracts have maturities of twelve months or less. These contracts are denominated primarily in the British pound sterling, the Euro and Canadian dollar. The gains and losses on the forward contracts associated with the balance sheet positions are recorded in Other Income (Expense) Net in our consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income and are essentially offset by the gains and losses on the underlying foreign currency transactions. As in prior years, we have hedged substantially all balance sheet positions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency applicable to each of our various subsidiaries with short term foreign exchange forward contracts. In addition, we may use foreign exchange option contracts to hedge certain foreign earnings streams and foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain net investment positions. The underlying transactions and the corresponding foreign exchange forward and option contracts are marked to market at the end of each quarter and the fair value impacts are reflected within our consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2011, we did not have any foreign exchange option contracts outstanding. At December 31, 2010, there were $10.7 million in foreign exchange option contracts outstanding having a fair value of $0.1 million. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the notional amounts of our foreign exchange forward contracts were $352.6 million and $361.1 million, respectively. Realized gains and losses associated with these contracts were $17.3 million and $18.6 million, respectively, at December 31, 2011; $29.3 million and $26.2 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010; and $24.9 million and $13.6 million, respectively, at December 31, 2009. Unrealized gains and losses associated with these contracts were $0.7 million and $0.7 million, respectively, at December 31, 2011; $0.4 million and $0.9 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010; and $0.6 million and $0.2 million, respectively, at December 31, 2009. If exchange rates were to increase on average 10% from year end levels, the unrealized loss on our foreign exchange forward contracts would be approximately $25 million, excluding the expected gain on the underlying hedged item. If exchange rates on average were to decrease 10% from year end levels, the unrealized gain on our foreign exchange forward contracts would be approximately $25 million, excluding the expected loss on the underlying hedge item. However, the estimated potential gain and loss on these contracts would substantially be offset by changes in the dollar value of the underlying transactions. 62 Table of Contents Liquidity and Financial Position In connection with our focus on delivering Total Shareholder Return, we will remain disciplined in the use of our shareholders cash, maintaining three key priorities for the use of this cash: First, making ongoing investments in the business to drive growth; Second, investing in acquisitions that we believe will be value accretive to enhance our capabilities and accelerate our growth; and Third, continuing to return cash to shareholders. We believe that cash provided by operating activities, supplemented as needed with available financing arrangements, is sufficient to meet our short term needs (twelve months or less), including restructuring charges, transition costs, our Strategic Technology Investment MaxCV, contractual obligations and contingencies (see Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K), excluding the legal matters identified in such note for which exposures cannot be estimated or are not probable. In addition, we believe that our ability to readily access the bank and capital markets for incremental financing needs will enable us to meet our continued focus on Total Shareholder Return. We have the ability to access the short term borrowings market to supplement the seasonality in the timing of receipts in order to fund our working capital needs and share repurchases. Such borrowings would be supported by our credit facility, when needed. The disruption in the economic environment has had a significant adverse impact on a number of commercial and financial institutions. Our liquidity has not been impacted by the current credit environment and management does not expect that it will be materially impacted in the near future. Management continues to closely monitor our liquidity, the credit markets and our financial counterparties. However, management cannot predict with any certainty the impact to us of any further disruption in the credit environment. Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $312.9 million, $319.4 million and $369.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Year ended December 31, 2011 vs. Year ended December 31, 2010 Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $6.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to the year ended December 31, 2010. This decrease was primarily driven by: Increased tax payments; Increased spend related to our Strategic Technology Investment MaxCV; and Timing of payments (e.g. early pay discounts that we took advantage of). partially offset by: Increased net income of our underlying business excluding the impact of non cash gains and losses and lower interest payments; and Lower interest payments due to lower average interest rates and lower amounts of average debt outstanding. Year ended December 31, 2010 vs. Year ended December 31, 2009 Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $50.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the year ended December 31, 2009. This decrease was primarily driven by: Increased spend related to our Strategic Technology Investment MaxCV; and 63 Table of Contents Decreased net income of our underlying business excluding the impact of non cash gains and losses; partially offset by: A decrease in restructuring payments associated with our Financial Flexibility initiatives; and A decrease in net tax payments. Cash (Used in) Provided by Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $73.4 million, $253.6 million and $120.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Year ended December 31, 2011 vs. Year ended December 31, 2010 Net cash used in investing activities was $73.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to net cash used in investing activities of $253.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The $180.2 million decrease primarily reflects the following activities: During the year ended December 31, 2011, we spent approximately $13.5 million on acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010, we spent $205.0 million on acquisitions/majority owned joint ventures and other investments, net of cash acquired, primarily related to D&B Australia. See Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information; and A decrease in additions to computer software and other intangibles and capital expenditures as large projects occurred in the prior year period (e.g., Acxiom data center migration and Hoovers technology replatform); partially offset by: Proceeds related to our divested business in prior year. Year ended December 31, 2010 vs. Year ended December 31, 2009 Net cash used in investing activities was $253.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to net cash used in investing activities of $120.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The $132.9 million increase primarily reflects the following activities: During the year ended December 31, 2010, in connection with our initiatives to drive long term growth, we spent $205.0 million on acquisitions and other investments, net of cash acquired, as compared to $74.6 million, net of cash acquired, during the year ended December 31, 2009. See Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information; and Cash settlements of our foreign currency contracts for our hedged transactions resulted in cash inflows of $3.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to cash inflows of $11.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. Cash Used in Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities was $238.0 million, $192.9 million and $213.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As set forth below, these changes primarily relate to contractual obligations, share repurchases, stock based programs and dividends. 64 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Debt In November 2010, we issued senior notes with a face value of $300 million that mature on November 15, 2015 (the 2015 notes), bearing interest at a fixed annual rate of 2.875%, payable semi annually. The proceeds were used in December 2010 to repay our then outstanding $300 million senior notes, bearing interest at a fixed annual rate of 5.50% which had a maturity date of March 15, 2011 (the 2011 notes). In connection with the redemption of the 2011 notes, we recorded a premium payment of $3.7 million as Other Income (Expense) Net in our consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive income. Credit Facility At December 31, 2010, we had a $650 million, five year bank revolving credit facility, which was to expire in April 2012. On October 25, 2011, we terminated the facility and simultaneously entered into a new $800 million five year bank revolving credit facility which matures in October 2016. Borrowings under the $800 million credit facility were available at prevailing short term interest rates. We had $259.4 million of borrowings outstanding under the $800 million credit facility at December 31, 2011. We had $272.0 million and $259.4 million of borrowings outstanding under the $650 million credit facility at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We borrowed under these facilities from time to time during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 to supplement the seasonality in the timing of receipts in order to fund our working capital needs and share repurchases. Share Repurchases During the year ended December 31, 2011, we repurchased 2,613,701 shares of common stock for $185.4 million under our share repurchase programs. The share repurchases are comprised of the following programs: In October 2011, our Board of Directors approved a $500 million share repurchase program which commenced in November 2011. We repurchased 435,770 shares of common stock for $29.8 million under this share repurchase program during the year ended December 31, 2011. Although there is not currently a specific time frame within which we plan to complete this share repurchase program, we intend to continue our policy of returning excess free cash to shareholders in the form of share buybacks and or dividends; In February 2009, our Board of Directors approved a $200 million share repurchase program which commenced in December 2009. We repurchased 1,380,118 shares of common stock for $96.3 million under this share repurchase program during the year ended December 31, 2011. This program was completed in November 2011; and In May 2010, our Board of Directors approved a four year, five million share repurchase program to mitigate the dilutive effect of shares issued under our stock incentive plans and Employee Stock Purchase Program (ESPP). We repurchased 797,813 shares of common stock for $59.3 million under this share repurchase program during the year ended December 31, 2011. This program commenced in October 2010 and expires in October 2014. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we repurchased 1,792,107 shares of common stock for $134.8 million under our share repurchase programs. The share repurchases are comprised of the following programs: In February 2009, our Board of Directors approved a $200 million share repurchase program. We repurchased 1,108,148 shares of common stock for $81.0 million under this share repurchase program during the year ended December 31, 2010. This program was completed in November 2011; In May 2010, our Board of Directors approved a four year, five million share repurchase program to mitigate the dilutive effect of shares issued under our stock incentive plans and ESPP. We repurchased 26,621 shares of common stock for $2.0 million under this repurchase program during the year ended December 31, 2010. This program commenced in October 2010 and expires in October 2014; and 65 Table of Contents In August 2006, our Board of Directors approved a four year, five million share repurchase program to mitigate the dilutive effect of the shares issued under our stock incentive plans and ESPP. We repurchased 657,338 shares of common stock for $51.8 million under this program during the year ended December 31, 2010. This program expired in August 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we repurchased 2,912,200 shares of common stock for $225.6 million under our share repurchase programs. The share repurchases are comprised of the following programs: In February 2009, our Board of Directors approved a $200 million share repurchase program which commenced in December 2009. We repurchased 278,417 shares of common stock for $22.7 million under this share repurchase program during the year ended December 31, 2009. This program was completed in November 2011; In December 2007, our Board of Directors approved a $400 million, two year share repurchase program which commenced in February 2008. We repurchased 1,662,245 shares of common stock for $127.3 million under this share repurchase program during the year ended December 31, 2009. This program was completed in December 2009; and In August 2006, our Board of Directors approved a four year, five million share repurchase program to mitigate the dilutive effect of the shares issued under our stock incentive plans and ESPP. We repurchased 971,538 shares of common stock for $75.6 million under this program during the year ended December 31, 2009. This program expired in August 2010. Stock based Programs Net proceeds from stock based awards during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 were $29.6 million, $8.1 million and $21.2 million, respectively. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2011, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2010 was attributed to an increase in the volume of stock option exercises. The decrease for the year ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2009 was attributed to a decrease in the volume of stock option exercises. Dividends The total amount of dividends paid during the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 was $70.4 million, $70.0 million and $71.5 million, respectively. Future Liquidity Sources and Uses of Funds Contractual Cash Obligations The following table quantifies, as of December 31, 2011, our contractual obligations that will require the use of cash in the future: Contractual Obligations(a) Total 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter All Other (Amounts in millions) Long Term Debt(1) $ 1,043.3 $ 36.8 $ 418.1 $ 12.1 $ 314.3 $ 262.0 $ $ Operating Leases(2) $ 136.9 $ 26.1 $ 24.2 $ 19.1 $ 17.0 $ 14.9 $ 35.6 $ Obligations to Outsourcers(3) $ 345.7 $ 104.4 $ 88.8 $ 82.6 $ 47.2 $ 22.7 $ $ Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits Payments/Contributions(4) $ 809.0 $ 31.5 $ 73.6 $ 60.7 $ 59.6 $ 50.4 $ 533.2 $ Spin off Obligation(5) $ 20.5 $ 20.5 $ $ $ $ $ $ Unrecognized Tax Benefits(6) $ 144.3 $ $ $ $ $ $ $ 144.3 (a) Because their future cash flows are uncertain, other noncurrent liabilities are excluded from the table. 66 Table of Contents (1) Primarily represents: i) our senior notes with a face value of $400 million that mature in April 2013, bearing interest at a fixed annual rate of 6.00%, payable semi annually; ii) our senior notes with a face value of $300 million that mature in November 2015, net of a fair value adjustment which increased the liability by $4.4 million partially offset by a discount of $0.8 million, bearing interest at a fixed annual rate of 2.875%, payable semi annually; and iii) borrowings outstanding under our bank credit facility at prevailing short term interest rates. Amounts include the interest expense portion that would be due on our future obligations. The interest rate on our senior notes is presented using the stated interest rate. Interest expense on our bank revolving credit facility is estimated using the rate in effect as of December 31, 2011. (2) Most of our operations are conducted from leased facilities, which are under operating leases that expire over the next ten years, with the majority expiring within five years. Our corporate office is located at 103 JFK Parkway, Short Hills, New Jersey 07078, in a 123,000 square foot property that we lease. We renewed our lease on this property in 2011 for a term of 8 years, with two 5 year renewal options. This property also serves as the executive offices of our North American segment. We also lease certain computer and other equipment under operating leases that expire over the next three and five years, respectively. These computer and other equipment leases are frequently renegotiated or otherwise changed as advancements in computer technology produce opportunities to lower costs and improve performance. (3) International Business Machines In October 2004, we signed a seven year outsourcing agreement with International Business Machines (IBM). Under the terms of the agreement, we have transitioned certain portions of our data acquisition and delivery and customer service to IBM. By August 2010, our data acquisition, delivery and customer services performed by IBM for our European countries were terminated. Additionally, by October 2011 our customer contact center services for the United States were terminated as a result of our transition to 67 Table of Contents Convergys Customer Management Group (CCMG). As of December 31, 2011, the services still to be provided by IBM are primarily limited delivery services for our North American customers. We incurred costs of approximately $10 million, $19 million and $26 million for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Acxiom Corporation In July 2006, we signed a four year product and technology outsourcing agreement with Acxiom in order to significantly increase the speed, data processing capacity and matching capabilities we provide our global sales and marketing customers. In November 2008, we entered into an agreement that will expand our service capabilities, enhance customer experience and accelerate the migration of the remaining existing D&B fulfillment processes to Acxiom. In November 2008, we extended the term of the outsourcing agreement through 2011. In December 2011, a three year agreement was reached to further extend the product and technology outsourcing agreement until the end of 2014. Payments over the contract terms will aggregate to approximately $28 million. The agreement provides for typical adjustments due to changes in volume, inflation and incremental project work. In May 2009, and as part of our ongoing Financial Flexibility initiatives, we entered into another agreement with Acxiom to provide certain infrastructure management services that were formerly provided by CSC. These services include data center operations, technology help desk and network management functions. The agreement originally had an initial term ending in October 2014 and included the right to extend the agreement under the same terms for up to a maximum period of three years after the expiration of the original term. In 2010, we entered into two amendments with Acxiom extending the initial term of the agreement by a total of eight months until June 2015. We retain the right to extend the agreement for up to three years after the expiration of this amended term. The agreement provides for typical adjustments due to changes in volume, inflation and incremental project work. In December 2009, we signed a three year data maintenance and support agreement with Acxiom. Payments over the contract term will aggregate approximately $5 million. The agreement provides for typical adjustments due to changes in volume, inflation and incremental project work. In May 2011, we signed a five year development and support agreement with Acxiom to provide data management services. This agreement is related to our Strategic Technology Investment or MaxCVand totals approximately $27 million over the term of the agreement. The agreement provides for typical adjustments due to changes in volume, inflation and incremental project work. We incurred costs of approximately $88 million, $93 million and $43 million under all of these agreements for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Total payments to Acxiom over the remaining terms of the above contracts will aggregate to approximately $218 million. Convergys Customer Management Group In December 2010, we entered into a six year business process outsourcing agreement effective January 1, 2011, with Convergys Customer Management Group (CCMG) in order to enhance our customer contact center solution. CCMG has transitioned contact center services previously outsourced principally to IBM as well as certain other smaller providers. The transition of services to CCMG was based on a phased migration of business volume to CCMG that commenced in the second quarter of 2011 and was substantially completed by the fourth quarter of 2011. Services are primarily provided from CCMG locations in Omaha, Nebraska, the Philippines and India, on the basis of our requirements. The primary scope of the agreement includes the following services for our North America business: (i) Inbound Customer Service, which principally involves the receipt of, response to and resolution of inquiries received from customers; (ii) Outbound Customer Service, which principally involves the 68 Table of Contents collection, compilation and verification of information contained in our databases; and (iii) Data Update Service, which principally involves the bulk or discrete updates to the critical data elements about companies in our databases. The agreement also specifies service level commitments required of Convergys for achievement of our customer satisfaction targets and a methodology for calculating credits to us if Convergys fails to meet certain service levels. In addition, Convergyss performance under the agreement will be measured in part by our overall satisfaction of the program as measured by a customer satisfaction survey of our key internal business partners. In December 2011, we signed a five year telephony agreement to support our small business customers telesales team. Payments over the contract term will aggregate approximately $3 million. The agreement provides for typical adjustments due to changes in volume, inflation and incremental project work. After the first three years of service by Convergys, we have the right to terminate for convenience any or all of the services provided under the agreements upon one hundred eighty days prior written notice, and without incurring a termination fee. We incurred costs of approximately $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Total payments to Convergys over the remaining terms of the above contracts will aggregate to approximately $97 million. (4) Represents projected contributions to our U.S. Qualified and Non U.S. defined benefit plans as well as projected benefit payments related to our unfunded plans, including the U.S. Non Qualified Plans and our postretirement benefit plan. The expected benefits are estimated based on the same assumptions used to measure our benefit obligation at the end of 2011 and include benefits attributable to estimated future employee service. A closed group approach is used in calculating the projected benefit payments, assuming only the participants who are currently in the valuation population are included in the projection and the projected benefits continue for up to approximately 99 years. (5) In 2000, as part of a spin off transaction under which Moodys Corporation (Moodys) and D&B became independent of one another, Moodys and D&B entered into a Tax Allocation Agreement (TAA). Under the TAA, Moodys and D&B agreed that Moodys would be entitled to deduct the compensation expense associated with the exercise of Moodys stock options (including Moodys stock options exercised by D&B employees) and D&B would be entitled to deduct the compensation expense associated with the exercise of D&B stock options (including D&B stock options exercised by employees of Moodys). Put simply, the tax deduction would go to the company that granted the stock options, rather than to the employer of the individual exercising the stock options. In 2002 and 2003, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued rulings that clarified that, under the circumstances applicable to Moodys and D&B, the compensation expense deduction belongs to the employer of the option grantee and not to the issuer of the option (i.e., D&B would be entitled to deduct the compensation expense associated with D&B employees exercising Moodys options and Moodys would be entitled to deduct the compensation expense associated with Moodys employees exercising D&B options). We have filed tax returns for 2001 through 2010 and made estimated tax deposits for 2011 consistent with the IRS rulings. We may be required to reimburse Moodys for the loss of compensation expense deductions relating to tax years 2006 to 2010 of approximately $20.5 million in the aggregate for such years. In 2005 and 2006, we paid Moodys approximately $30.1 million in the aggregate, which represented the incremental tax benefits realized by D&B for tax years 2003 2005 from using the filing method consistent with the IRS rulings. In February 2011, we paid Moodys an additional sum of approximately $2.5 million, for tax years 2003 2005. While not material, we may also be required to pay, in the future, amounts in addition to the approximately $20.5 million referenced above based upon interpretations by the parties of the TAA and the IRS rulings. (6) We have a total amount of unrecognized tax benefits of $120.1 million for the year ending December 31, 2011. Although we do not anticipate payments within the next twelve months for these matters, these could require the aggregate use of cash totaling approximately $144.3 million. As we cannot make reliable estimates regarding the timing of the cash flows by period, we have included unrecognized tax benefits within the All Other column in the table above. 69 Table of Contents Capital Structure Every year we examine our capital structure and review our liquidity and funding plans. During 2012, in connection with our focus on our Total Shareholder Return, we anticipate continued share repurchases and cash dividends. We believe that cash provided by operating activities, supplemented from time to time as needed with readily available financing arrangements, is sufficient to meet our short term needs, including the cash cost of restructuring charges, transition costs, our Strategic Technology Investment or MaxCV, contractual obligations and contingencies, excluding the legal matters identified herein for which exposures cannot be estimated. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. As we execute our long term strategy, which contemplates strategic acquisitions, we may require financing of our existing debt instruments or consider additional financing. We regularly evaluate market conditions, our liquidity profile and various financing alternatives for opportunities to enhance our capital structure. While we feel confident that such financing arrangements are available to us, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to access new sources of liquidity when required. The disruption in the economic environment has had a significant adverse impact on a number of commercial and financial institutions. Our liquidity has not been impacted by the current credit environment and management does not expect that it will be materially impacted in the near future. Management continues to closely monitor our liquidity, the credit markets and our financial counterparties. However, management cannot predict with any certainty the impact to us of any further disruption in the credit environment. Share Repurchases and Dividends In October 2011, our Board of Directors approved a $500 million share repurchase program, which commenced in November 2011. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we repurchased 435,770 shares of common stock for $29.8 million under this share repurchase program with $470.2 million remaining under this program. Although there is not currently a specific time frame within which we plan to complete this program, we intend to continue our policy of returning excess free cash to shareholders in the form of share buybacks and or dividends. In May 2010, our Board of Directors approved a four year, five million share repurchase program to mitigate the dilutive effect of shares issued under our stock incentive plans and ESPP. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we repurchased 797,813 shares of common stock for $59.3 million under this repurchase program with 4,175,566 shares of common stock remaining under this program. This program commenced in October 2010 and expires in October 2014. On February 6, 2012, we declared a dividend of $0.38 per share for the first quarter of 2012. This cash dividend will be payable on March 14, 2012 to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 28, 2012. Strategic Technology Investment Program or MaxCV In February 2010, we announced a Strategic Technology Investment or MaxCV program aimed at strengthening our leading position in commercial data and improving our current technology platform to meet the emerging needs of customers. We expect that MaxCV will have a total cost of approximately $160 million in 2012. The project will largely focus on continuing to rebuild the data supply chain as well as introducing additional Web services. We expect MaxCV and the associated spending will be largely complete by the end of 2012. However, product and customer migration are now targeted to be concluded in the second half of 2013. We may experience additional costs that we do not currently foresee. 70 Table of Contents For 2012, the project will largely focus on continuing to rebuild the data supply chain as well as introducing additional web services. We expect the associated spending will be largely complete by the end of 2012; however, product and customer migrations are now targeted to be concluded in the first half of 2013. Potential Payments in Legal Matters We and our predecessors are involved in certain legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. These matters are at various stages of resolution, but could ultimately result in significant cash payments as described in Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. We believe we have adequate reserves recorded in our consolidated financial statements for our share of current exposures in these matters, where applicable, as described therein. Pension Plan and Postretirement Benefit Plan Contribution Requirements For financial statement reporting purposes, the funded status of our pension plans, as determined in accordance with GAAP, had a deficit of $290.0 million, $266.2 million and $33.2 million for the U.S. Qualified Plan, the U.S. Non Qualified Plans and the non U.S. plans, respectively, at December 31, 2011, as compared to a deficit of $133.2 million, $252.2 million and $45.8 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010. The deterioration in the funded status of the U.S. plans was primarily due to a higher projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2011 which was driven by a lower discount rate. Additionally, for the U.S. Qualified Plan a lower actual return on plan assets in 2011 was also attributable to the deterioration of its funded status. The improvement in the funded status of the non U.S. plans was primarily due to higher fair value of plan assets at December 31, 2011, as a result of higher company contributions to the plans. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. During fiscal 2011, we were not required to make contributions to the U.S. Qualified Plan, the largest of our six plans, under funding regulations associated with the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA 2006) as the plan was considered fully funded for the 2010 plan year. We do not expect to make any contributions to the U.S. Qualified Plan in fiscal 2012 for the 2011 plan year. Final funding requirements for fiscal 2012 were determined based on our January 2012 funding actuarial valuation. We expect to continue to make cash contributions to our other pension plans during 2012. The expected 2012 contribution is approximately $26.0 million, compared to $45.9 million in 2011. In addition, we expect to make benefit payments related to our postretirement benefit plan of approximately $6.0 million during 2012, compared to $5.0 million in 2011. See the Contractual Cash Obligations table above for projected contributions and benefit payments beyond 2011. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Related Party Transactions We do not have any transactions, obligations or relationships that could be considered off balance sheet arrangements except for those disclosed in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Additionally, we have not engaged in any significant related party transactions. Fair Value Measurements Our non recurring non financial assets and liabilities include long lived assets held and used, goodwill and intangible assets. These assets are recognized at fair value when they are deemed to be impaired. During the fourth quarter of 2011, we recorded an impairment charge of $3.3 million related to the intangible assets acquired from the AllBusiness.com, Inc. (AllBusiness.com) acquisition as a result of a decline in performance. We determined that the new cost basis of these intangible assets is zero based on Level III inputs. The impairment charge is included in Selling and Administrative Expenses in our North American segment. During the third quarter of 2011, we recorded an impairment of approximately $8.0 million related to a 2008 investment in a research and development data firm as a result of its financial condition and our focus on our strategic technology investment (MaxCV) program. We determined the basis to be zero. The impairment charge is included in Other Income (Expense) Net in our Europe and other International Markets segment. 71 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2011, we did not have any unobservable (Level III) inputs in determining fair value for our assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis other than our real estate funds. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K for further detail. Forward Looking Statements We may from time to time make written or oral forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements contained in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in reports to shareholders and in press releases and investor Web casts. These forward looking statements can be identified by the use of words like anticipates, aspirations, believes, continues, estimates, expects, goals, guidance, intends, plans, projects, strategy, targets, commits, will and other words of similar meaning. They can also be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. We cannot guarantee that any forward looking statement will be realized. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward looking statements and whether to invest in, or remain invested in, our securities. In connection with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are identifying in the following paragraphs important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statements made by us; any such statement is qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements. The following important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward looking statements: We rely significantly on third parties to support critical components of our business model in a continuous and high quality manner, including third party data providers, strategic third party members in our D&B Worldwide Network, and third parties with whom we have significant outsourcing arrangements; Our ability to implement and derive the benefit of our Strategic Technology Investment or MaxCVprogram announced in February 2010 and to maintain sufficient investment in our technology infrastructure thereafter; Demand for our products is subject to intense competition, changes in customer preferences and economic conditions which impact customer behavior; Our solutions and brand image are dependent upon the integrity and security of our global database and the continued availability thereof through the internet and by other means, as well as our ability to protect key assets, such as our data centers; Our ability to secure our information technology infrastructure from cyber attack and unauthorized access; Our ability to maintain the integrity of our brand and reputation, which we believe are key assets and competitive advantages; Our ability to renew large contracts, the related revenue recognition and the timing thereof, or a shift in product mix, may impact our results of operations from period to period; As a result of the macro economic challenges currently affecting the global economy, our customers or vendors may experience problems with their earnings, cash flow, or both. This may cause our customers to delay, cancel or significantly decrease their purchases from us and impact their ability to pay amounts owed to us. In addition, our vendors may substantially increase their prices without 72 Table of Contents notice. Such behavior may materially, adversely affect our earnings and cash flow. In addition, if economic conditions in the United States and other key markets deteriorate further or do not show improvement, we may experience material adverse impacts to our business, operating results, and or access to credit markets; Our results are subject to the effects of foreign economies, exchange rate fluctuations, legislative or regulatory requirements, such as the adoption of new or changes in accounting policies and practices, including pronouncements by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standard setting bodies, and the implementation or modification of fees or taxes that we must pay to acquire, use, and or redistribute data. Future laws or regulations with respect to the collection, compilation, use and/ or publication of information and adverse publicity or litigation concerning the commercial use of such information, or changes in the rules governing the operation of the Internet could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results; Our ability to acquire and successfully integrate other complementary businesses, products and technologies into our existing business, without significant disruption to our existing business or to our financial results; The continued adherence by third party members of our D&B Worldwide Network or other third parties who license and sell under the D&B name to our quality standards, our brand and communication standards and to the terms and conditions of our commercial services arrangements; The profitability of our international businesses depends on our ability to identify and execute on various initiatives, such as successfully managing our D&B Worldwide Network, complying with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti bribery and anti corruption laws in all jurisdictions, and our ability to identify and contend with various challenges present in foreign markets, such as local competition and the availability of public records at no cost, or the adoption of new laws or regulations governing the collection, compilation, use and/ or publication of information, particularly in emerging markets; Our future success requires that we attract and retain qualified personnel, including members of our sales force and technology teams, in regions throughout the world; Our ability to successfully implement our growth strategy requires that we successfully reduce our expense base through our Financial Flexibility initiatives, and reallocate certain of the expense base reductions into initiatives that produce desired revenue growth; We are involved in various legal proceedings, the outcomes of which are unknown and uncertain with respect to the impact on our cash flow and profitability; Our ability to repurchase shares is subject to market conditions, including trading volume in our stock, and our ability to repurchase shares in accordance with applicable securities laws; and Our projection for free cash flow is dependent upon our ability to generate revenue, our collection processes, customer payment patterns, the timing and volume of stock option exercises and the amount and timing of payments related to the tax and other matters and legal proceedings in which we are involved. We elaborate on the above list of important factors throughout this document and in our other filings with the SEC, particularly in the discussion of our Risk Factors in Item 1A. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. It should be understood that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Consequently, the above list of important factors and the Risk Factors discussed in Item 1A. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K should not be considered to be a complete discussion of all of our potential trends, risks and uncertainties. Except as otherwise required by federal securities laws, we do not undertake any obligation to update any forward looking statement we may make from time to time. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Information in response to this Item is set forth under the caption Market Risk in Item 7. of this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 73 Table of Contents 
 
