FILE:TXT/TXT-8K-20031015150712.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
     On August 1, 2003, Textron sold certain assets and liabilities related to its remaining product line within the OmniQuip business to JLG Industries, Inc. Textron reclassified the aggregate financial results from this business, and all the previously sold OmniQuip businesses, as discontinued operations in the third quarter of 2003. Historical results from 1998 through the second quarter of 2003 have been recast to reflect the transaction and are available on Textron's investor relations homepage at www.textron.com and are attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.
     The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 Dated: October 15, 2003
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
(a)     On August 1, 2003, Textron consummated the sale of its remaining OmniQuip business to JLG Industries, Inc. and has reclassified the financial results of the OmniQuip division as discontinued operations for accounting purposes. In 1999, Textron completed the sale of Avco Financial Services to Associates First Capital Corporation resulting in a $1.65 billion gain, net of income taxes, and the reclassification of $165 million, net of income taxes, to discontinued operations in 1998.
(b)     Textron adopted SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities", effective December 29, 2002. Upon adoption, costs related to restructuring that were previously recorded in segment profit are now included with severance costs, contract termination costs, and asset impairment write-downs in special charges. Costs related to restructuring that were recorded in segment profit in prior periods have been reclassified to special charges to conform to this presentation.
(c)     Pursuant to SFAS No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets", beginning on December 30, 2001, goodwill is no longer amortized. To reflect the adoption of this statement and the fact that management does not include amortization of goodwill in its internal evaluation of segment performance, the Company has recast its segment data for comparability by reclassifying goodwill amortization out of segment profit in prior periods.
(d)     In accordance with SFAS No. 145 "Rescission of FASB No. 4, 44 and 62, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections", Textron has reclassified the loss from early debt retirement from an extraordinary loss to a pre-tax loss reflected in operations with the tax benefit recorded in income taxes.
(e)     Assumes full conversion of outstanding preferred stock and exercise of options. The average share base for the third quarter 2001 excludes potentially dilutive common shares (convertible preferred stock and stock options). These shares are excluded due to their antidilutive effect.
 
(a)     On August 1, 2003, Textron consummated the sale of its remaining OmniQuip business to JLG Industries, Inc. and has reclassified the financial results of the OmniQuip division as discontinued operations for accounting purposes. In 1999, Textron completed the sale of Avco Financial Services to Associates First Capital Corporation resulting in a $1.65 billion gain, net of income taxes, and the reclassification of $165 million, net of income taxes, to discontinued operations in 1998.
(b)     Textron adopted SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities", effective December 29, 2002. Upon adoption, costs related to restructuring that were previously recorded in segment profit are not included with severance costs, contract termination costs, and asset impairment write-downs in special charges. Costs related to restructuring that were recorded in segment profit in prior periods have been reclassified to special charges to conform to this presentation.
(c)     Pursuant to SFAS No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets", beginning on December 30, 2001, goodwill is not longer amortized. To reflect the adoption of this statement and the fact that management does not include amortization of goodwill in its internal evaluation of segment performance, the Company has recast its segment data for comparability by reclassifying goodwill amortization out of segment profit in prior periods.
(d)     Assumes full conversion of outstanding preferred stock and exercise of options. The average share base for the third quarter 2001 excludes potential dilutive common shares (convertible preferred stock and stock options). These shares are excluded due to their antidilutive effect.
*     The "As Adjusted" amounts exclude items recorded in special charges, the gain (loss) on sale of significant businesses and the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle. Textron presents its results "as adjusted", before restructuring and other special items, because such items are outside normal business operations, as well as difficult to forecast accurately for specific periods. Such items are either isolated or temporary in nature; therefore, it is helpful to understand results without these items, especially when comparing results for previous periods or forecasting performance in future periods. In addition, Textron utilizes "as adjusted" results to measure management performance for management compensation purposes. Any analysis of results before restructuring costs and other special items should be used only in conjunction with data presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). The accompanying reconciliation of GAAP measures to non-GAAP measures contains the reconciliations of income and EPS.
 
 
 
(a)     On August 1, 2003, Textron consummated the sale of its remaining OmniQuip business to JLG Industries, Inc. and has reclassified the financial results of the OmniQuip division as discontinued operations for accounting purposes. In 1999, Textron completed the sale of Avco Financial Services to Associates First Capital Corporation resulting in a $1.65 billion gain, net of income taxes, and the reclassification of $165 million, net of income taxes, to discontinued operations in 1998.
(b)     Textron adopted SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities", effective December 29, 2002. Upon adoption, costs related to restructuring that were previously recorded in segment profit are not included with severance costs, contract termination costs, and asset impairment write-downs in special charges. Costs related to restructuring that were recorded in segment profit in prior periods have been reclassified to special charges to conform to this presentation.
(c)     Pursuant to SFAS No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets", beginning on December 30, 2001, goodwill is not longer amortized. To reflect the adoption of this statement and the fact that management does not include amortization of goodwill in its internal evaluation of segment performance, the Company has recast its segment data for comparability by reclassifying goodwill amortization out of segment profit in prior periods.
 
 


