FILE:TXT/TXT-8K-20070424170733.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c)) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01
 
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On April 20, 2007, Textron Inc. (Textron) amended the 5-year senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the Facility Agreement) with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and Citibank, N.A., as syndication agent, and other lenders entered into on March 28, 2005 and amended and extended on April 21, 2006. The amendment further extended the maturity date from April 21, 2011 to April 20, 2012 and revised the pricing schedule to the Facility Agreement. Under the amended Facility Agreement, Textron will pay quarterly fees that will range from 4.5 basis points to 10 basis points, depending on Textrons ratings by S&P, Moodys and Fitch (Textrons Ratings). At Textrons current rating, the fees are 6 basis points. Under the amended Facility Agreement, with respect to LIBOR borrowings, Textron will pay a margin over LIBOR that will range from 13 basis points to 52.5 basis points, depending on Textrons Ratings. In addition Textron will pay a utilization fee that will range, depending on Textrons Ratings, from 2.5 basis points to 12.5 basis points on LIBOR borrowings if the aggregate amount outstanding exceeds 50% of the banks total commitment under the Facility Agreement. The aggregate amount of committed credit remained unchanged at $1.25 billion.
 
 
A conformed copy of the amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
Item 9.01
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
   
 
(d) Exhibits
 
     SIGNATURES
   
   
   
   
   
  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 24, 2007
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
AMENDMENT dated as of April 20, 2007 to the 5-Year Credit Agreement dated as of March 28, 2005 (the 
Credit Agreement
) among TEXTRON INC., the BANKS party thereto, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and CITIBANK, N.A., as Syndication Agent.
 
 
WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend the Credit Agreement as set forth herein; and
 
WHEREAS the Commitments of the Lenders are set forth in the Commitment Schedule annexed hereto;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
Section 1  Unless otherwise specifically defined herein, each term used herein that is defined in the Credit Agreement has the meaning assigned to such term in the Credit Agreement. Each reference to hereof, hereunder, herein and hereby and each other similar reference and each reference to this Agreement and each other similar reference contained in the Credit Agreement shall, after this Amendment becomes effective, refer to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.
  
Defined Terms; References
.
 
Section 2
  
Amendments
.
     (a)
   
   
   
   
   
 
The definition of Termination Date in Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement is amended by changing the date specified therein from April 21, 2011 to April 20, 2012.
 
     (b)
   
   
   
   
   
  
Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of the Credit Agreement are amended by changing each reference to the date December 31, 2005 to December 30, 2006.
 
Section 3
  
Changes in Pricing Schedule.
The Pricing Schedule attached to the Credit Agreement (the 
Existing Pricing Schedule
) is deleted and replaced by the Pricing Schedule attached to this Amendment (the 
New Pricing Schedule
). The New Pricing Schedule shall apply to interest and fees accruing under the Credit Agreement on and after the date hereof. The Existing Pricing Schedule shall continue to apply to interest and fees accruing under the Credit Agreement prior to the date hereof.
 
Section 4
  
Representations of Borrower
.
The Company represents and warrants that (i) the representations and warranties of the Company set forth in Article 4 of the Credit Agreement will be true on and as of the Amendment Effective Date and (ii) no Event of Default will have occurred and be continuing on such date.
 
Section 5
  
Effect of Amendments.
Except as expressly set forth herein, the amendments contained herein shall not constitute a waiver or amendment of any term or condition of the Credit Agreement, and all such terms and conditions shall remain in full force and effect and are hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects.
 
Section 6
  
Governing Law
.
This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
 
Section 7
  
Counterparts
.
This Amendment may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.
 
Section 8
  
Effectiveness
.
This Amendment shall become effective as of the date hereof (the 
Amendment Effective Date
), subject to satisfaction of the following conditions:
 
(a)
  
the Administrative Agent shall have received from each of the parties listed in the signature pages hereof a counterpart hereof signed by such party or facsimile or other written confirmation (in form satisfactory to the Administrative Agent) that such party has signed a counterpart hereof; and
 
(b)
  
the Administrative Agent shall have received an opinion of the General Counsel or Assistant General Counsel of the Company dated as of the Amendment Effective Date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each of 
Facility Fee Rate
, 
Euro-Dollar Margin
 and 
Letter of Credit Fee Rate
 means, for any date, the rate set forth below in the row opposite such term and in the row corresponding to the 
Utilization
 at such date and under the column corresponding to the 
Pricing Level
 at such date:
 
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings, subject to the concluding paragraph of this Schedule:
 
Level I Pricing
 applies at any date if, at such date, the Companys long-term debt is rated A+ or higher by S&P, A1 or higher by Moodys and A+ or higher by Fitch.
 
Level II Pricing
 applies at any date if, at such date, the Companys long-term debt is rated A by S&P, A2 by Moodys and A by Fitch.
 
Level III Pricing
 applies at any date if, at such date, the Companys long-term debt is rated A- by S&P, A3 by Moodys and A- by Fitch.
 
Level IV Pricing
 applies at any date, if at such date, the Companys long-term debt is rated BBB+ by S&P, Baa1 by Moodys and BBB+ by Fitch.
 
Level V Pricing
 applies at any date if, at such date, the Companys long-term debt is rated BBB by S&P, Baa2 by Moodys and BBB by Fitch.
 
Level VI Pricing
 applies at any date if, at such date, no other Pricing Level applies.
 
Fitch
 means Fitch Ratings Ltd.
 
Moodys
 means Moodys Investors Service, Inc.
 
Pricing Level
 refers to the determination of which of Level I, Level II, Level III, Level IV, Level V or Level VI applies at any date.
 
S&P
 means Standard & Poors Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
 
Utilization
 means, at any date, the percentage equivalent of a fraction (i) the numerator of which is the sum of (A) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the loans under the Facility at such date (after giving effect to any borrowing or payment on such date)
plus
(B) the aggregate amount then owing in respect of amounts paid by the Issuing Bank upon a drawing under a letter of credit issued under the Facility at such date
plus
(C) the aggregate amount then available for drawing under all outstanding letters of credit under the Facility at such date and (ii) the denominator of which is the aggregate amount of the commitments under the Facility at such date (after giving effect to any reduction on such date). If for any reason any Loans or Letter of Credit Liabilities remain outstanding after termination of the commitments under the Facility, Utilization shall be deemed to be 100%.
 
The credit ratings to be utilized for purposes of this Schedule are those assigned to the senior unsecured long-term debt securities of the Company without third-party enhancement, and any rating assigned to any other debt security of the Company shall be disregarded. The rating in effect at any date is that in effect at the close of business of such date.
 
If the Company is split-rated, then for purposes of determining the applicable Pricing Level, (a) if the S&P and Moodys ratings are the same, all three ratings will be deemed to be at that level, (b) if the S&P and Moodys ratings are not the same, and the ratings differential is one level, all three ratings will be deemed to be at the higher level of S&P and Moodys and (c) if the S&P and Moodys ratings are not the same and the ratings differential is two levels or more, all three ratings will be deemed to be at a level one notch lower than the higher of S&P and Moodys.
 


