FILE:TXT/TXT-8K-20080630172352.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c)) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 5.02
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
                                            
 
On June 30, 2008, Textron Inc. ("Textron") announced the appointment of Scott C. Donnelly to the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Textron, effective immediately.
(c)
          
 
Mr. Donnelly, 46, will be joining Textron from General Electric, where he has been the president and CEO of General Electric Company's Aviation business unit since July 2005.  GE's Aviation business unit is a $16 billion maker of commercial and military jet engines and components as well as integrated digital, electric power and mechanical systems for aircraft. Prior to July 2005, Mr. Donnelly served as senior vice president of GE Global Research, one of the world's largest and most diversified industrial research organizations with facilities in the U.S., India, China and Germany, and held various other management positions since joining General Electric in 1989.
 
Mr. Donnelly has entered into a letter agreement with Textron which provides for an annual base salary of $850,000 and for participation in Textron's annual incentive plan for 2008 at a target award level of 90% and subject to the same performance goals as comparable executives, but which payment will not be less than $1,320,000 as a "make whole" minimum for his foregone annual incentive payment at his former employer.  In future years, Mr. Donnelly's target award level for annual incentive compensation will be at least 90% of base salary, with actual payouts varying based upon performance.
 
Mr. Donnelly also will be awarded (i) three pro rata awards of performance share units which are earned based on Textron's performance on earnings per share and return on invested capital for the award cycles ending in 2008, 2009 and 2010 with a combined value of $2,100,000 and (ii) stock options to acquire up to 200,000 shares of Textron common stock, plus cash, valued in the aggregate at $2,510,000 which options will vest in 20% annual installments beginning on August 1, 2010.  In 2009, Mr. Donnelly will be granted long-term equity incentive awards valued at $3,500,000 under the same annual grant cycle and award program applicable to Textron's other executive officers.
 
In recognition of awards granted by his prior employer that will be forfeited upon his departure from GE, Mr. Donnelly will receive a cash payment of $2,100,000 payable by September 30, 2008 and an additional cash payment of $2,000,000 payable by February 28, 2009.  In addition, Textron will grant to Mr. Donnelly restricted stock units with a value of $7,500,000, which will pay dividend equivalents until vesting and 25% of which will vest on the anniversary of the grant date in each of 2009, 2010 and 2011 and the remaining 25% of which will vest ratably in 2012, 2013 and 2016.
 
Mr. Donnelly will be eligible to participate in Textron's benefit plans and programs for key executives, all in a manner and on terms and conditions substantially similar to other Textron executive officers.  While Mr. Donnelly's employment with
Textron is terminable at will by Textron, in the event of an involuntary termination other than for cause or a termination for Good Reason (as defined in the letter agreement), Mr. Donnelly would vest in certain benefits and receive separation benefits including a payment of two times his salary and bonus or, if such events occur after a change in control, three times his salary and bonus.
 
The foregoing description is a summary of the compensation arrangements with Mr. Donnelly and is qualified by reference to his letter agreement, which will be included as an exhibit to Textron's second quarter Form 10-Q.  The valuation of equity awards will be based upon calculations performed by a compensation consultant and involve a variety of assumptions.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
         
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Providence, RI  June 30, 2008 
Textron Inc. (NYSE:TXT) today announced that Scott C. Donnelly has been named Executive Vice President and Chief Operating officer, overseeing Textron's manufacturing business units as well as the corporation's Information Technology, Six Sigma, Engineering and Global Sourcing functions. Textron's commercial finance unit will continue to report to Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Ted French.
 
Effective immediately, Donnelly will become an Officer of Textron, a member of the company's Management Committee (comprised of the top seven executives of the corporation) and Chairman of the company's enterprise-wide Operations Committee.
 
Donnelly joins Textron as a 19-year veteran of GE, where he most recently served as president and CEO of GE Aviation, a $16 billion maker of commercial and military jet engines and components as well as integrated digital, electric power and mechanical systems for aircraft. Prior to being named CEO of GE Aviation in July 2005, Donnelly was senior vice president of GE Global Research, one of the world's largest and most diversified industrial research organizations with facilities in the U.S., India, China and Germany.
 
"Recruiting, developing and retaining top talent is a major strategic focus at Textron, and I am pleased to have an executive of Scott Donnelly's caliber  and with his vast multi-industry expertise  join our organization," said Textron Chairman, President and CEO Lewis B. Campbell. "Scott brings extensive experience and a track record of success in leading complex, diverse, global businesses. Further, his experience in Lean manufacturing, global sourcing, innovation and technology management are aligned with Textron's growth strategies. I am excited about the contributions he will make to our continued evolution as an organization  both at the enterprise and business unit levels."
 
Donnelly joined GE in 1989 as manager of Electronics Design Engineering for GE's Ocean Systems Division in Syracuse, NY. He went on to serve in leadership roles for the company, including engineering management positions with then-GE division of Lockheed Martin in both Australia and the U.S. In 1995, he moved to GE's Industrial Control Systems business, where he held leadership positions as manager of Technology and System Development, and later general manager of Industrial Systems Technology. Donnelly was named a vice president of General Electric in 1997, responsible for Global Technology Operations at GE Healthcare.
 
Donnelly, 46, is a graduate of the University of Colorado with a BS degree in electrical and computer engineering.  He serves on the Engineering Advisory Committees at Cornell University
and the University of Colorado, is a member of the Board of Trustees at Siena College and the Board of Directors for the United Way of Greater Cincinnati.
 
Textron Inc. is a $13.2 billion multi-industry company operating in 34 countries with approximately 44,000 employees.  The company leverages its global network of aircraft, defense and intelligence, industrial and finance businesses to provide customers with innovative solutions and services. Textron is known around the world for its powerful brands such as Bell Helicopter, Cessna Aircraft Company, Jacobsen, Kautex, Lycoming, E-Z-GO, Greenlee, Fluid & Power, Textron Systems and Textron Financial Corporation.  More information is available at www.textron.com.
 


