FILE:TXT/TXT-8K-20080129170018.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c)) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On January 25, 2008, Textrons Board of Directors approved the overall design of the Companys annual and long-term incentive compensation program, including terms and conditions of the annual cash incentive arrangement under the Textron Inc. Short-Term Incentive Plan (As amended and restated effective July 25, 2007) (the Incentive Plan) and the grant types and the terms and conditions of stock options, restricted stock units and performance share units to be granted under the Textron Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (amended and restated as of May 1, 2007) (the 2007 Plan).  These arrangements operate on substantially the same terms as those that were maintained by Textron under the predecessors to the Incentive Plan and the 2007 Plan.
Following such approval, the Organization and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved the overall design of the Companys annual and long-term incentive compensation program with respect to Textrons executive officers, approved grant levels under these arrangements with respect to such executive officers and established related performance goals for such executive officers for 2008 and for the 2008-2010 performance share unit cycle.
Incentive payments to executive officers for 2008 under the Incentive Plan will be based on the following:
Target payouts for the named executive officers range from 65% to 100% of the executives base salary, and the maximum payout on these components regardless of how much the targets are exceeded will be 200%.
With respect to awards under the 2007 Plan to executive officers, restricted stock units awarded in 2008 will receive cash dividend equivalent payments on a quarterly basis beginning in April 2008 at the same rate paid to Textron shareholders.
In addition, performance share units granted for the 2008-2010 cycle will be based 50% on achievement of earnings per share targets and 50% on enterprise return on invested capital minus weighted average cost of capital targets.   The maximum payout on performance share units will be 150%.
Item 9.01                       Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
Exhibit
                                
Number
Description
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date:  January 28, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Under the Textron Inc. Short-Term Incentive Plan, target annual incentive payments for Executive Officers are approved by the Organization and Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors.  The targets for Executive Officers can range from 65% to 100% of the Executive Officers base salary.  The amount actually paid generally can range from zero, if the threshold level of actual performance relating to target performance objectives is not achieved, to no more than twice the target award level. Payouts are made in cash following review and certification of performance results by the Committee.
The target performance objectives for Executive Officers are set by the Committee, and generally include such targets as achieving earnings per share, enterprise return on invested capital, specified leadership behaviors, including financial goals and strategic and business objectives such as six sigma, customer growth, talent development, supply chain, information technology and compliance goals, and a specified workforce diversity target.

Exhibit 99.2
Under the Performance Share Unit Plan for Textron Employees, participants are awarded a number of performance share units that are payable in cash at the end of the respective three-year performance cycle.  The payout is determined by multiplying the number of performance share units earned by the then current market value of Textron common stock at the end of the performance period. The number of performance share units earned by Executive Officers at the end of the three-year performance cycle is determined by the Organization and Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors, and are based on factors for each cycle determined by the Committee.  Such factors generally include earnings per share (EPS) and enterprise return on invested capital (ROIC).
 
Failure to attain a minimum EPS performance level (80% of target) will result in the failure to earn any performance share units related to the EPS portion of the award.  Attainment between the minimum and maximum EPS targets will result in earning a portion of the performance share units related to the EPS portion of the award as defined by a pre-established mathematical formula. The Committee may determine an award less than that determined by the formula but may not determine an award more than that derived by the formula.
 
With respect to the ROIC target, if enterprise-wide ROIC averages 800 basis points or more above the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) over the performance period, then this portion of the award will be 100% earned.  If the difference between ROIC and WACC is above zero but less than 800 basis points, then a pro rata portion of this amount is earned.  In addition, participants have an opportunity to earn up to 150% of this portion of the award for achieving enterprise ROIC that exceeds WACC by greater than 800 basis points.
 

 
 
"Cause" shall mean: (i) an act or acts of willful misrepresentation, fraud or willful dishonesty (other than good faith expense account disputes) by the executive which in any case is intended to result in his or another person or entitys substantial personal enrichment at the expense of Textron; (ii) any willful misconduct by the executive with regard to Textron, its business, assets or employees that has, or was intended to have, a material adverse impact (economic or otherwise) on Textron; (iii) any material, willful and knowing violation by the executive of (x) Textron's Business Conduct Guidelines, or (y) any of his or her fiduciary duties to Textron which in either case has, or was intended to have, a material adverse impact (economic or otherwise) on Textron; (iv) the willful or reckless behavior of the executive with regard to a matter of a material nature which has a material adverse impact (economic or otherwise) on Textron; (v) the executive's willful failure to attempt to perform his or her duties or his or her willful failure to attempt to follow the legal written direction of the Board, which in either case is not remedied within ten (10) days after receipt by the executive of a written notice from Textron specifying the details thereof; or (vi) the executive's conviction of, or pleading nolo contendere or guilty to, a felony (other than (x) a traffic infraction or (y) vicarious liability solely as a result of his position provided the executive did not have actual knowledge of the actions or in actions creating the violation of the law or the executive relied in good faith on the advice of counsel with regard to the legality of such action or inaction (or the advice of other specifically qualified professionals as to the appropriate or proper action or inaction to take with regard to matters which are not matters of legal interpretation); No action or inaction should be deemed willful if not demonstrably willful and if taken or not taken by the executive in good faith as not being adverse to the best interests of Textron. Reference in this paragraph to Textron shall also include direct and indirect subsidiaries of Textron, and materiality and material adverse impact shall be measured based on the action or inaction and the impact upon, and not the size of, Textron taken as a whole, provided that after a Change in Control, the size of Textron, taken as a whole, shall be a relevant factor in determining materiality and material adverse impact.
For the purposes of this grant, the Period of Restriction means, for any Share which may be issued pursuant to a Restricted Stock Unit, the period prior to the date on which such Share becomes issuable.
Early retirement with Textron is defined as attainment of age 60 or the completion of 20 years of vesting service or the attainment of age 55 with the completion of 10 years of vesting service. Normal retirement with Textron is age 65.
Disability", shall mean, for purposes of this award, the inability of the executive to engage in any substantial gainful activity due to injury, illness, disease, bodily or mental infirmity which can be expected to result in death or is expected to be permanent.  An individual shall not be considered disabled unless executive furnishes proof of the existence thereof.  Textron may required the existence or non-existence of a disability to be determined by a physician whose selection is mutually agreed upon by the executive (or his or her representatives) and Textron.
 
Pro-Rata Portion
Pro-Rata Portion shall mean the number of complete or partial months of executives active service to Textron during the Period of Restriction divided by the number of months in the Period of Restriction.  An employee must be employed by Textron for a minimum of three years after the grant date before pro-rata Shares may be issued.
On July 16, 2003, an executive was granted 2,500 Restricted Stock Units constituting the right to receive 2,500 Shares to be issued in accordance with the following vesting schedule:
Example:
The executive terminates employment with Textron on August 30, 2006 after having attained age 55 with the completion of 10 years of vesting service.
Because the executives age and years of service qualify as early retirement and executive was employed by Textron for three years after the grant date,  the executive is eligible for the issuance of a pro-rata portion of the Shares. The number of Shares earned would be calculated as follows:
 July 16, 2003  August 30, 2006 (37 completed plus 1 partial month)
(1)
 July 16, 2003  July 16, 2006
(2)
 July 16, 2003  July 16, 2007
(3)
July 16, 2003  July 16, 2008
(4)
*Fractional Shares will be paid in cash. For instance, if the share price is $90 on the date that the Shares are issued, then Textron would pay the executive $2.24 (.0249 X $90 = $2.24)
 


