FILE:TXT/TXT-8K-20090728073302.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c)) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 28, 2009, Textron Inc. (Textron) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended July 4, 2009.  This press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
A discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Textrons financial condition and results of operations is included in the attachments to the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
(c)           On July 28, 2009, Textron announced the appointment of Frank T. Connor to the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Textron, to be effective August 1, 2009.   Mr. Connor will also be a member of Textrons Management Committee.  Richard Yates, who has been serving as Textrons Acting Chief Financial Officer, will continue as Textrons Senior Vice President and Controller.
Mr. Connor, 49, joins Textron from a brief retirement after a twenty-two year career in investment banking at Goldman, Sachs & Co.  His last role at Goldman, Sachs, which he left in December 2008, was as head of Telecom Investment Banking, a position he held from 2003 to 2008.  Prior to that position, he served as Chief Operating Officer of Telecom, Technology and Media Investment Banking at Goldman, Sachs from 1998 to 2003.  During his career at Goldman, Sachs, Connor advised companies across a wide range of industries and executed numerous public and private financings and strategic transactions.  He joined the Corporate Finance Department of Goldman, Sachs in 1986, became a Vice President in 1990, a Managing Director in 1996 and a Partner in 2000.
Mr. Connor has entered into a letter agreement with Textron which provides for an annual base salary of $750,000 and for participation in Textrons annual incentive plan for 2009 at a target award level of 85%, payable on a non-prorated basis, subject to the same performance goals as the other members of the Management Committee, to align Mr. Connors annual incentive with the other Management Committee members.  In future years, Mr. Connors target award level for annual incentive compensation will be at least 85% of base salary, with actual payouts varying based upon performance.
Mr. Connor will be awarded (i) 120,000 performance share units for the full 2009-2011 cycle, with the same terms as Textrons other executive officers, (ii) 70,000 restricted stock units payable in cash which will pay dividend equivalents until vesting and will vest in 20% annual installments beginning March 2010, and (iii) stock options to acquire 80,000 shares of Textron common stock which options will vest in 33% annual installments beginning March 2010.  In future years, Mr. Connors initial long-term incentive award target will be 285% of base salary, subject to review and approval by the O&C Committee.
Mr. Connor will be eligible to participate in the Textron Master Retirement Plan and the Spillover Pension Plan based on Textron service as well as an enhanced pension benefit, which vests after five years of service and provides an additional three years of credited service, under a separate non-qualified pension benefit program.  Mr. Connor also will be eligible to participate in the Deferred Income Plan for Textron Executives as well as Textrons other benefit plans and programs for key executives, all in a manner and on terms and conditions substantially similar to other Textron executive officers.  Mr. Connors employment with Textron is terminable at will by Textron.
The foregoing description is a summary of the compensation arrangements with Mr. Connor and is qualified by reference to his letter agreement, which will be included as an exhibit to Textrons third quarter Form 10-Q.
 
 
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
Exhibit
                                
Number
Description
99.1                                Press release dated July 28, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 Textron Inc. (NYSE: TXT) today reported a second quarter 2009 loss of $0.22 per share. Excluding special charges, income from continuing operations was $0.08 per share.  Revenues in the quarter were $2.6 billion, down 29 percent from the second quarter of 2008. Managed receivables at the companys finance business were further reduced by $1.3 billion and second quarter manufacturing free cash flow was $27 million.
Providence, Rhode Island  July 28, 2009
Were pleased with our continuing progress in liquidating TFCs non-captive portfolio, said Textron Chairman and CEO Lewis B. Campbell. Coupled with receiving $775 million in net proceeds from our equity and convertible bond offerings in May and establishing a $500 million financing facility through the Export-Import Bank of the United States earlier this month, our liquidity outlook has improved substantially.
Campbell added, Our positive manufacturing cash flow in the quarter validates our focus on working capital and operating efficiency, especially considering the significant volume declines experienced at Cessna and Industrial during the quarter.
Textron recorded second quarter pre-tax, special charges of $129 million associated with its restructuring program. Full-year restructuring charges are now expected to be approximately $200 million, up from the companys previous estimate of $75 million, primarily due to previously disclosed actions at its Cessna business unit.
Outlook
The company is now estimating 2009 revenues of approximately $10.6 billion, down from its previous expectation of about $11.0 billion due to lower expected jet deliveries. Correspondingly, manufacturing free cash flow is expected to be in the range of $300 - $400 million, compared to the companys previous outlook of about $400 million. The company still expects full-year earnings per share from continuing operations excluding special charges, in the range of $0.33 to $0.63.
Campbell concluded, Overall Bell and Textron Systems delivered strong performance, TFC liquidations remain ahead of schedule, Industrial returned to profitability, and despite cancellations, we saw early signals of stabilization late in the quarter in the business jet market.
Segment Results
 
Cessna
 
Cessnas second quarter revenues decreased $630 million from the same period last year, reflecting the delivery of 84 jets this year compared with 117 jets last year.
 
Segment profit decreased $214 million primarily driven by the lower sales volume.  Segment profit included higher write-downs of pre-owned aircraft inventory and higher unabsorbed overhead costs related to lower production levels and temporary plant shutdowns.  These decreases were partially offset by an increase in deposit forfeiture income from order cancellations and lower selling, general and administrative expense largely due to workforce reductions.
 
Cessna backlog at the end of the second quarter was $8.2 billion, a decline of $4.8 billion from the first quarter.  The decline included $2.1 billion related to the removal of Citation Columbus orders from the backlog.
 
Bell
 
Bells second quarter revenues decreased $28 million from the same period last year.  The reduction reflects an unfavorable commercial product mix and the cancellation of the ARH program.  These decreases were partially offset by increased commercial pricing.
 
Segment profit increased $4 million primarily due to improved performance.
 
Bell backlog at the end of the second quarter was $5.9 billion, down $231 million from the end of last quarter.
 
Textron Systems
 
Textron Systems second quarter revenues increased $10 million over the same period last year, as higher sensor-fused weapon (SFW) and training and simulation volumes offset lower aircraft engine and ASV aftermarket volumes.
 
Segment profit decreased by $5 million, as higher SFW volume and cost improvements only partially offset the impact of unabsorbed overhead and facility costs from lower aircraft engine production, and inflation.
 
Backlog at the end of the second quarter was $2.0 billion, essentially unchanged from last quarter.
 
Industrial
 
Industrials second quarter revenues decreased $333 million over the same period last year, primarily due to lower volumes across all the businesses along with an unfavorable foreign exchange impact.
 
Nonetheless, Industrial posted segment profit of $12 million. This was $32 million lower than last year primarily due to the lower volume, partially offset by improved cost performance.
 
Finance
 
Finance revenues decreased $91 million and segment profit was down $112 million in the second quarter primarily due to an increase in portfolio losses and higher securitization impairments. These items were partially offset by gains on early debt extinguishment and the benefit of interest rate floors.  Revenue was also impacted by lower market interest rates, while segment profit reflected a $37 million increase in loan loss provisions.
 
Sixty-day plus delinquencies increased to 6.62% from 4.29% at the end of the first quarter.  Nonaccrual finance receivables to total finance receivables held for investment increased to 10.04% from 6.11% since last quarter.  Charge-offs in the second quarter were $23 million, down from $47 million in the first quarter.
 
Managed receivables ended the quarter at $8.6 billion, versus $9.9 billion at the end of last quarter.
 
GAAP Measures
Income from continuing operations, excluding special charges and manufacturing free cash flow are non-GAAP measures that are defined in attachments to this release.
 
Conference Call Information
Textron will host its conference call today, July 28, 2009 at 9:00 a.m., Eastern to discuss its results and outlook.  The call will be available via webcast at www.textron.com or by direct dial at (888) 276-0010 in the U.S. or (612) 332-0820 outside of the U.S. (request the Textron Earnings Call).
In addition, the call will be recorded and available for playback by 11:30 a.m., Eastern time on Tuesday, July 28, 2009 by dialing (320) 365-3844; Access Code: 991793.
A package containing key data that will be covered on todays call can be found in the Investor Relations section of the companys website at .
www.textron.com
About Textron
Textron Inc. is a multi-industry company that leverages its global network of aircraft, defense, industrial and finance businesses to provide customers with innovative solutions and services. Textron is known around the world for its powerful brands such as Bell Helicopter, Cessna Aircraft Company, Jacobsen, Kautex, Lycoming, E-Z-GO, Greenlee, and Textron Systems. More information is available at .
www.textron.com
 
Forward-looking Information
 
Certain statements in this press release and other oral and written statements made by us from time to time are forward-looking statements, including those that discuss strategies, goals, outlook or other non-historical matters, or project revenues, income, returns or other financial measures. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the statements, including the risk factors contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and the following: (a) changes in worldwide economic or political conditions that impact demand for our products, interest rates and foreign exchange rates; (b) the interruption of production at our facilities or our customers or suppliers; (c) performance issues with key suppliers, subcontractors and business partners; (d) our ability to perform as anticipated and to control costs under contracts with the U.S. Government; (e) the U.S. Governments ability to unilaterally modify or terminate its contracts with us for the U.S. Governments convenience or for our failure to perform, to change applicable procurement and accounting policies, and, under certain circumstances, to suspend or debar us as a contractor eligible to receive future contract awards; (f) changing priorities or reductions in the U.S. Government defense budget, including those related to Operation Iraqi Freedom, Operation Enduring Freedom and the Overseas Contingency Operations; (g) changes in national or international funding priorities, U.S. and foreign military budget constraints and determinations, and government policies on the export and import of military and commercial products; (h) legislative or regulatory actions impacting our operations or demand for our products; (i) the ability to control costs and successful implementation of various cost-reduction programs, including the enterprise-wide restructuring program; (j) the timing of new product launches and certifications of new aircraft products; (k) the occurrence of slowdowns or downturns in customer markets in which our products are sold or supplied or where Textron Financial Corporation (TFC) offers financing; (l) changes in aircraft delivery schedules, or cancellation or deferral of orders; (m) the impact of changes in tax legislation; (n) the extent to which we are able to pass raw material price increases through to customers or offset such price increases by reducing other costs; (o) our ability to offset, through cost reductions, pricing pressure brought by original equipment manufacturer customers; (p) our ability to realize full value of receivables; (q) the availability and cost of insurance; (r) increases in pension expenses and other postretirement employee costs; (s) TFCs ability to maintain portfolio credit quality and certain minimum levels of financial performance required under its committed credit facilities and under Textrons support agreement with TFC; (t) TFCs access to financing, including securitizations, at competitive rates; (u) our ability to successfully exit from TFCs commercial finance business, other than the captive finance business, including effecting an orderly liquidation or sale of certain TFC portfolios and businesses; (v) uncertainty in estimating market value of TFCs receivables held for sale and reserves for TFCs receivables to be retained; (w) uncertainty in estimating contingent liabilities and establishing reserves to address such contingencies; (x) risks and uncertainties related to acquisitions and dispositions, including difficulties or unanticipated expenses in connection with the consummation of acquisitions or dispositions, the disruption of current plans and operations, or the failure to achieve anticipated synergies and opportunities; (y) the efficacy of research and development investments to develop new products; (z) the launching of significant new products or programs which could result in unanticipated expenses; (aa) bankruptcy or other financial problems at major suppliers or customers that could cause disruptions in our supply chain or difficulty in collecting amounts owed by such customers; and (bb) continued volatility and further deterioration of the capital markets.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A reconciliation of income from continuing operations, excluding special charges, per share on a non-GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) basis to income (loss) from continuing operations per share in accordance with GAAP is provided below.
Income from continuing operations, excluding special charges, on a per share basis is a non-GAAP financial measure.  Special charges include items that are either isolated or temporary in nature and are excluded from segment profit. Results before special charges are also the basis for measuring operating performance for management compensation purposes. It is helpful to understand results without these charges, especially when comparing results to previous periods.  However, analysis of the companys results before special charges should be used only in conjunction with data presented in accordance with GAAP.


