FILE:TXT/TXT-8K-20090914135545.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c)) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
On September 14, 2009, Textron Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Textron Financial Corporation, announced the commencement of offers to purchase for cash up to an aggregate of $650 million in principal amount of certain of their outstanding debt.  Textron Inc. is offering to purchase any and all of its 4 % Notes due August 1, 2010, $250 million of which is outstanding, and up to $150 million of its 6.5% Notes due June 1, 2012.  The difference between $500 million and the principal amount of securities purchased in the Textron Inc. offer will be available for Textron Financial Corporations offer to purchase several series of its Medium-Term Notes with maturity dates in February 2011 and May 2010.  In addition, Textron Financial Corporation is offering to purchase up to $150 million of its 6% Notes due November 20, 2009.  A copy of the press release announcing the commencement of the tender offers is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)      Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Today, Textron Inc. (NYSE: TXT) () announced separate cash tender offers by Textron and its wholly owned subsidiary, Textron Financial Corporation ( and together with Textron, the ) for up to $650 million aggregate principal amount of five separate series of outstanding debt securities (the  and each a of Securities) of the Issuers.  The purpose of the offers, together with a public offering of Textrons notes also announced today, is to lengthen the maturity profile of the Issuers' indebtedness.  Each Issuer expects to use available cash on hand to provide the total amount of funds required to purchase its respective Securities, make any applicable Early Tender Payments (as specified in the table below), pay all accrued interest and pay all fees and expenses in connection therewith.  Textron may use proceeds from the public offering of its notes to fund the purchase of Securities pursuant to the tender offers.
Providence, Rhode Island  September 14, 2009
Textron
TFC
Issuers
Securities,
Series
 
 
The tender offers are being made pursuant to the Offer to Purchase, dated September 14, 2009, and the related Letter of Transmittal, dated September 14, 2009, which together set forth a more detailed description of the tender offers.
 
The Issuers are making five separate offers (each an and collectively, the ),with one Offer being made by Textron to purchase any and all of its outstanding 4 1/2%  Notes due August 1, 2010 (CUSIP number 883203BJ9) (the ) (such Offer is referred to as the ), one Offer being made by Textron to purchase up to $150,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its outstanding 6.500% Notes due June 1, 2012 (CUSIP Number 883203BH3) (the ) (such Offer is referred to as the ), two Offers being made by TFC to purchase up to the Maximum Principal Amount to be Accepted described below of its outstanding 5.125% Medium-Term Notes, Series E (CUSIP Number 88319QJ20) (the ) and its outstanding 4.60% Medium-Term Notes, Series E (CUSIP Number 88319QH22) (the ) (such Offers are referred to as the ) and one Offer being made by TFC to purchase up to $150,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its outstanding 6% Notes due 2009 (CUSIP Number 883199AQ4) (the )(such Offer is referred to as the   and collectively with the Textron Partial Tender Offer and the Maximum Tender Offers, the )
Offer,
 
Offers
 
4.5% Textron Securities
Any and All Offer
6.5% Textron Securities
Textron Partial Tender Offer
MTO Level 1 Securities
MTO Level 2  Securities
Maximum Tender Offers
6% TFC Securities
 
TFC
Partial Tender Offer
Limited Tender Offers
.
 
The Maximum Principal Amount to be Accepted, in the case of Textrons Offer for its 6.5% Textron Securities, will be $150,000,000.  The Maximum Principal Amount to be Accepted, in the case of TFCs Offer for its MTO Level 1 Securities, will be equal to the difference between $500,000,000 (the ) and the sum of the aggregate principal amount of (a) the 4.5% Textron Securities validly tendered and accepted for purchase in the Any and All Offer and (b) the 6.5% Textron Securities validly tendered and accepted for purchase in the Textron Partial Tender Offer.  The 6.5% Textron Securities and the 4.5% Textron Securities are referred to herein together as, the  The Any and All Offer and the Textron Partial Tender Offer are referred to herein as the .  The Maximum Principal Amount to be Accepted, in the case of TFC's offer for its MTO Level 2 Securities, will be equal to the difference between the MTO Tender Cap and the sum of (x) the aggregate principal amount of Textron Securities validly tendered and accepted for purchase by Textron in the Textron Offers and (y) the aggregate principal amount of MTO Level 1 Securities validly tendered and accepted for purchase by TFC.  The Maximum Principal Amount to be Accepted, in the case of TFCs Offer for its 6% TFC Securities, will be $150,000,000.
MTO Tender Cap
Textron Securities.
Textron Offers
 
If the principal amount of Securities validly tendered and not validly withdrawn in any Limited Tender Offer is greater than the applicable Maximum Principal Amount to be Accepted, then the Securities of that Series accepted for purchase will be subject to proration (rounded downward such that Holders are returned Securities in integral multiples of $1,000) and, in the case of proration of the MTO Level 1 Securities tendered and accepted in the Maximum Tender Offers, no MTO Level 2 Securities will be purchased.  The amount of Securities to be purchased pursuant to the Maximum Tender Offers will not be determined until the expiration of the Any and All Offer and the Limited Tender Offers, as they may be extended from time to time.
 
The Any and All Offer will expire at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on September 21, 2009, unless extended (such date and time, as the same may be extended, the ).  Holders of Securities subject to the Any and All Offer must validly tender and not validly withdraw their Securities at or before 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Any and All Offer Expiration Date to be eligible to receive the applicable Full Tender Offer Consideration specified in the table below.
Any and All Offer Expiration Date
 
The Limited Tender Offers will expire at 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on October 9, 2009, unless extended with respect to one or more Limited Tender Offers (such date and time, as the same may be extended, the  and together with the Any and All Offer Expiration Date, the  and each an )Holders of Securities subject to the Limited Tender Offers must validly tender and not validly withdraw their Securities at or before 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on September 25, 2009, unless extended with respect to one or more Limited Tender Offers (such date and time, as the same may be extended, the ) to be eligible to receive the applicable Full Tender Offer Consideration specified in the table below.  Holders of Securities subject to the Limited Tender Offers who validly tender their Securities after the Early Tender Date and at or before 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on the Limited Tender Offers Expiration Date will be eligible to receive only the applicable Full Tender Offer Consideration minus the applicable Early Tender Payment described in footnote 3 to the table below (the Full Tender Offer Consideration minus the applicable Early Tender Payment, the ).
Limited Tender Offers Expiration Date,
Expiration Dates
Expiration Date
.  
Early Tender Date
Late Tender Offer Consideration
 
In addition to the Full Tender Offer Consideration or Late Tender Offer Consideration, as applicable, payable pursuant to the Offers, Holders whose Securities are purchased in the Offers will also be paid accrued and unpaid interest on such Securities from the applicable last interest payment date to, but not including, the applicable settlement date for the purchase of the Securities.
 
Set forth below is a listing of the Offers by each of the Issuers for their respective Securities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except in certain limited circumstances where additional withdrawal rights are required by law (as determined by the applicable Issuer), tenders of Securities in the Any and All Offer may be validly withdrawn at any time at or before the Any and All Offer Expiration Date, but not thereafter, tenders of Securities in the Limited Tender Offers made at or before the Early Tender Date may be validly withdrawn at any time at or before the Early Tender Date, but not thereafter, and tenders of Securities in the Limited Tender Offers made after the Early Tender Date but at or before the Limited Tender Offers Expiration Date may not be validly withdrawn.
 
The settlement date for each Offer is expected to be one business day following the Expiration Date of each Offer.
 
The Offers are not subject to any minimum or financing conditions.  The Issuers may amend, extend or, subject to certain conditions, terminate the Offers.
 
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. have been retained to serve as dealer managers for the offers.  Global Bondholder Services Corporation will be acting as the Depositary and Information Agent.
 
For additional information regarding the terms of the Offers please contact: J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. at (866) 834-4666 (toll free) or (212) 834-3424 (collect) or Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. at (866) 627-0391 (toll free) or (212) 250-2955 (collect).  Requests for documents and questions regarding the tendering of Securities may be directed to Global Bondholder Services Corporation at (866) 952-2200 (toll free) or (212) 430-3774 (collect).
 
The obligation of the Issuers to accept any Securities tendered and to pay the applicable consideration for them is set forth solely in the Offer to Purchase and related Letter of Transmittal.  This press release is for informational purposes only and is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell the Securities. The offers to purchase the Securities are only being made pursuant to the Offer documents, including the Offer to Purchase that the Issuers are distributing to holders of Securities.  The Offers are not being made to holders of Securities in any jurisdiction in which the making or acceptance thereof would not be in compliance with the securities, blue sky or other laws of such jurisdiction.
 
The terms and conditions of the public offering of Textrons notes are set forth in a prospectus, which can be obtained by contacting Textrons Investor Contacts specified above or by written request to Textron Inc., 40 Westminster Street, Providence, Rhode Island 02903 Attn: Investor Relations.  This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any of such notes, nor will there be any sale of such notes in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
 
About Textron
 
Textron is a multi-industry company that leverages its global network of aircraft, defense, industrial and finance businesses to provide customers with innovative solutions and services.  Textron is known around the world for its powerful brands such as Bell Helicopter, Cessna Aircraft Company, Jacobsen, Kautex, Lycoming, E-Z-GO, Greenlee and Textron Systems.  More information is available at www.textron.com.
 
About Textron Financial Corporation
 
Textron Financial Corporation (TFC) is a diversified commercial finance company that provides financing programs for products manufactured by its parent company, Textron Inc. www.textron.com. Current specialties include Aviation Finance and Golf Equipment Finance. The company also manages a portfolio of receivables which it previously originated in various businesses, including Asset-Based Lending, Distribution Finance, Golf Mortgage  Finance, Resort Finance and Structured Capital.  More information is available at www.textronfinancial.com.
 
Forward-looking Information
 
This press release may include forward-looking statements of the Issuers.  These forward-looking statements are not statements of historical fact but rather reflect the Issuers current expectations, estimates and predictions about future results and events.  These statements may use words such as should, likely, target, anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend, predict, project and similar expressions as they relate to either of the Issuers or their management.  When either of the Issuers makes forward-looking statements, they are based on its managements beliefs and assumptions, using information currently available to such Issuer.  These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, including, but not limited to, the risks, uncertainties and assumptions discussed in the respective Issuer's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, any Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed thereafter and the documents incorporated by reference therein.  The Issuers undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, developments or otherwise.  If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize, or if either Issuers underlying assumptions prove to be incorrect, actual results may vary materially from what such Issuer projected.  Any forward-looking statements of either Issuer you read in this press release, reflect such Issuers current views with respect to future events and are subject to these and other risks, uncertainties and assumptions relating to such Issuers operations, results of operations, growth strategy and liquidity.  All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to each Issuer or individuals acting on such Issuers behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by this section.
 


