FILE:TXT/TXT-8K-20110126074803.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c)) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 26, 2011, Textron Inc. (Textron) issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal year and quarter ended January 1, 2011.  This press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Discussions of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Textrons financial condition and results of operations are included as attachments to the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
Exhibit
                                
Number
Description
99.1                                Press release dated January 26, 2011 related to earnings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
TEXTRON INC.
(Registrant)
By: 
/s/Richard L. Yates                                 
Richard L. Yates
Senior Vice President and Corporate Controller
Date:  January 26, 2011
 
 
 
.                                 
Exhibit No
Description
99.1                      Press release dated January 26, 2011 related to earnings.
 
 
 
 

 Textron Inc. (NYSE: TXT) today reported 2010 fourth quarter income of $0.19 per share, compared to a loss of $0.23 per share in the fourth quarter of 2009. Excluding special charges, the company reported income from continuing operations of $0.33 per share, up from $0.15 per share in the fourth quarter of 2009.  Revenues were $3.1 billion, up 11.2 percent.
Providence, Rhode Island  January 26, 2011
Manufacturing free cash flow from continuing operations for the year was $692 million. The company made a voluntary contribution of $350 million from this cash flow to its pension plans during the quarter.
Fourth quarter results benefited from increased demand in our commercial businesses and strong performance at Bell, said Textron Chairman and CEO Scott C. Donnelly.  Were particularly encouraged by the pick-up in business jet and commercial helicopter demand, driven in part by the impact of bonus depreciation in the United States, but also reflecting relative stability in global economies and improving general business confidence, Donnelly added.
Managed receivables at the companys finance business ended the year at $4.6 billion, down $2.4 billion from the end of last year, as the company continued to make good progress with its program of liquidating non-captive finance receivables.
Consolidated net debt ended the year at $5.0 billion, down $2.4 billion from the end of 2009.
 
Special Charges
The company completed its restructuring program during the fourth quarter, as it recorded charges of $0.13 per share ($54 million, pre-tax).
 
 
 
Outlook
Textron is forecasting 2011 revenues of approximately $11.7 billion, reflecting top line growth across all of its manufacturing segments.  Cash flow from continuing operations of the manufacturing group before pension contributions is expected to be between $800 and $850 million with planned pension contributions of about $250 million. Earnings per share from continuing operations are expected to be in the range of $1.00 to $1.15.
Donnelly continued, An improving commercial outlook, combined with accelerating investments in new product development, should support top line growth across our manufacturing businesses.
 
Fourth Quarter Segment Results
Cessna
 
Cessnas revenues increased $105 million in the fourth quarter from the same period in the prior year, reflecting higher overall volume, including the delivery of 79 business jets vs. 68 last year.
 
Segment profit decreased $5 million, as the profit from higher volumes was more than offset by the impact of manufacturing inefficiencies related to low production levels, lower deposit forfeiture income, and higher used aircraft write-downs.
 
Cessna backlog at the end of the fourth quarter was $2.9 billion, down $495 million from the end of the third quarter.
 
Bell
 
Bells revenues increased $173 million in the fourth quarter from the same period in the prior year. U.S. Government revenues increased $54 million due to higher V-22 and H-1 deliveries.  Commercial revenues increased $119 million, primarily due to higher aircraft deliveries and pricing.
 
 
Segment profit increased $54 million, primarily due to improved performance and pricing in excess of inflation.
 
Bell backlog at the end of the fourth quarter was $7.2 billion, up $661 million from the end of third quarter.
 
Textron Systems
Revenues at Textron Systems increased $25 million primarily due to higher volumes of unmanned aircraft systems and unattended ground systems.
Segment profit decreased $10 million, primarily due to lower armored security vehicle pricing, unmanned aircraft systems mix and inflation.
Textron Systems backlog at the end of the fourth quarter was $1.6 billion, flat with the end of the third quarter.
 
Industrial
Revenues increased $66 million in the fourth quarter due to higher volumes at Kautex, Greenlee and Jacobsen, which resulted in an increase in segment profit of $7 million.
 
Finance
Finance segment revenues decreased $55 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2009, primarily due to reduced earnings on lower finance receivables.
Finance segment loss was lower by $8 million, primarily due to lower loan loss provisions and portfolio losses, partially offset by lower interest margin on the reduced portfolio of finance receivables.
Since the end of last quarter, sixty-day plus delinquencies of finance receivables held for investment increased to $411 million from $357 million and nonaccrual finance receivables decreased from $876 million to $850 million.  Charge-offs in the fourth quarter were $24 million compared with $26 million in the third quarter of 2010.
Managed receivables ended the year at $4.6 billion, including $2.3 billion of non-captive managed receivables.
 
Non-GAAP Measures
Income from continuing operations, excluding special charges and manufacturing free cash flow are non-GAAP measures that are defined and reconciled to GAAP in attachments to this release.
 
Conference Call Information
Textron will host its conference call today, January 26, 2011 at 8:00 a.m., Eastern to discuss its results and outlook.  The call will be available via webcast at or by direct dial at (800) 230-1085 in the U.S. or (612) 288-0337 outside of the U.S. (request the Textron Earnings Call).
www.textron.com
In addition, the call will be recorded and available for playback beginning at 10:30 a.m. (Eastern) on Wednesday, January 26, 2011 by dialing (320) 365-3844; Access Code: 138126.
A package containing key data that will be covered on todays call can be found in the Investor Relations section of the companys website at .
www.textron.com
 
About Textron Inc.
Textron Inc. is a multi-industry company that leverages its global network of aircraft, defense, industrial and finance businesses to provide customers with innovative solutions and services. Textron is known around the world for its powerful brands such as Bell Helicopter, Cessna Aircraft Company, Jacobsen, Kautex, Lycoming, E-Z-GO, Greenlee, and Textron Systems. More information is available at .
www.textron.com
 
 
 
Forward-looking Information
 
Certain statements in this press release and other oral and written statements made by us from time to time are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These forward-looking statements, which may describe strategies, goals, outlook or other non-historical matters, or project revenues, income, returns or other financial measures, often include words such as believe, expect, anticipate, intend", plan, estimate, guidance, project, target, potential, will, should, could, likely  or may and similar expressions intended to identify forward-lookin g statements.  These statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. In addition to those factors described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from past and projected future results are the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturing Cash Flow GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations:
 
Free cash flow is a measure generally used by investors, analysts and management to gauge a companys ability to generate cash from operations in excess of that necessary to be reinvested to sustain and grow the business and fund its obligations.  Our definition of Manufacturing free cash flow adjusts net cash from operating activities of continuing operations for dividends received from TFC, capital contributions provided under the Support Agreement, capital expenditures, proceeds from the sale of property, plant and equipment and voluntary contributions to our pension plans.  Prior to 2010, voluntary contributions to pension plans have not been significant.
Beginning in 2011, we are changing our basis for projecting and measuring Manufacturing cash flow to adjust for all pension contributions, both mandatory and voluntary, so that the total impact of these contributions can be more clearly understood.   We believe that our calculation provides a relevant measure of liquidity and is a useful basis for assessing our ability to fund operations and obligations.  This measure is not a financial measure under GAAP and should be used in conjunction with GAAP cash measures provided in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
 
 
 
 
 
TEXTRON INC.
 
 
 
Textron Inc.
GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation
Income/(Loss) from Continuing Operations, Excluding Special Charges
A reconciliation of income/(loss) from continuing operations in accordance with GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) to income from continuing operations, excluding special charges on a non-GAAP basis is provided below.
Income from continuing operations, excluding special charges is a non-GAAP financial measure.  Special charges include items that are either isolated or temporary in
nature and are excluded from segment profit.  Results before special charges are also the basis for measuring operating performance for management compensation purposes. It is helpful to understand results without these charges, especially when comparing results to previous periods.  However, analysis of the companys results before special charges should be used only in conjunction with data presented in accordance with GAAP.
The non-GAAP per share information for both periods in 2009 is calculated using basic shares outstanding.  If fully diluted shares were used to calculate the non-GAAP per share information, the effect would be a reduction in income per share of $0.01 for both periods.


