FILE:TXT/TXT-8K-20110415150241.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
o
   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c)) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.
        
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On April 13, 2011, Textron Inc. ("Textron") amended (the "Amendment") its senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Facility Agreement") with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, Citibank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A., as syndication agents, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as documentation agents, and other lenders.  The Amendment replaces the original Commitment Schedule attached to the Facility Agreement with a revised Commitment Schedule which includes an additional lender.  The aggregate amount of committed credit under the Facility Agreement remained unchanged at $1.0 billion.
 
The foregoing description of the Amendment does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Amendment, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.
        
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
       (c)
               
Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
 
10.1
        
Amendment No. 1, dated as of April 13, 2011, to Credit Agreement, dated as of March 23, 2011, among Textron, the Lenders listed therein, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Citibank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A., as Syndication Agents, and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.,  as Documentation Agents
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
AMENDMENT NO. 1 (this "") dated as of April 13, 2011 to the Credit Agreement dated as of March 23, 2011 (the "") among TEXTRON INC., as the Borrower, the Lenders, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent, CITIBANK, N.A. and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Syndication Agents, and DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC. and THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ, LTD., as Documentation Agents.
Amendment
Credit Agreement
 
WHEREAS, the Borrower has requested that the Lenders modify certain provisions of the Credit Agreement and the Lenders are willing, on the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth, to modify the Credit Agreement as set forth below; and
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
SECTION 1Unless otherwise specifically defined herein, each term used herein that is defined in the Credit Agreement has the meaning assigned to such term in the Credit Agreement. Each reference to "hereof", "hereunder", "herein" and "hereby" and each other similar reference and each reference to "this Agreement" and each other similar reference contained in the Credit Agreement shall, after this Amendment becomes effective, refer to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.
.  Defined Terms; References. 
 
SECTION 2(a) The Commitment Schedule attached to the Credit Agreement is deleted and replaced by the Commitment Schedule attached to this Amendment (the "").  Upon the effectiveness of this Amendment, all references in the Credit Agreement to the "Commitment Schedule" shall be references to the New Commitment Schedule.
.  New Commitment Schedule; Fee Adjustment. 
New Commitment Schedule
 
(b)        In connection with the reallocation of Commitments effected by subsection (a) above, there shall also be a reallocation of the fees previously paid to the Lenders on the Effective Date.  To effect that reallocation, the Administrative Agent shall pay to Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation, on June 30, 2011, a fee in the aggregate amount set forth in the Fee Adjustment Schedule attached to this Amendment.  The amount of the facility fee payable for the account of each other Lender on June 30, 2011 shall be reduced by the applicable amount set forth opposite its name in the Fee Adjustment Schedule.
 
SECTION 3
.  New Lender.
  Upon the effectiveness of this Amendment, Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation shall be a Lender party to the Credit Agreement.
 
 
SECTION 4. 
Definition of Pro Rata Share.
  The definition of "Pro Rata Share or
pro rata
Share" in Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement is amended to read as follows:
 
" or " means, when used with reference to any Lender, the percentage equivalent of a fraction (i) the numerator of which is the amount of the Commitment of such Lender and (ii) the denominator of which is the aggregate amount of the Commitments.
Pro Rata Share
Share
pro rata
 
SECTION 5The Borrower represents and warrants that (i) the representations and warranties of the Borrower set forth in Article 4 of the Credit Agreement are true on and as of the date hereof and (ii) no Default has occurred and is continuing on the date hereof.
.  Representations of Borrower. 
 
SECTION 6This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
.  Governing Law. 
 
SECTION 7This Amendment may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.
.  Counterparts. 
 
SECTION 8This Amendment shall be effective as of the date hereof when the Administrative Agent shall have received from the Borrower and each of the Lenders a counterpart hereof signed by such party or facsimile or other written confirmation (in form satisfactory to the Administrative Agent) that such party has signed a counterpart hereof.
.  Effectiveness. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


