ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR 2002 In 2002, Williams faced many challenges including credit and liquidity constraints following the deterioration of our energy industry sector in the wake of the Enron collapse and the assumption of payment obligations and performance on guarantees associated with its former telecommunications subsidiary, Williams Communications Group, Inc. (WCG). With the deterioration of the energy industry, the credit rating agencies requirements for investment grade companies became more stringent. Williams credit rating was lowered below an investment grade rating in the middle of 2002. During 2002 and more recently, Williams has sold a significant amount of assets and or businesses and outlined plans to sell more assets to satisfy maturing debt obligations and strengthen its short term liquidity position. In regards to the short term, Williams, at December 31, 2002, has maturing notes payable and long term debt totaling approximately $3.8 billion (which includes certain contractual fees and deferred interest associated with an underlying debt) through the first quarter of 2004. The following discussion outlines in more detail the events of 2002 through the filing of this Form 10 K and the challenges facing the company. During December 2001 and first quarter 2002, Williams announced plans to strengthen its balance sheet and support retention of its investment grade ratings. The plans included reducing capital expenditures during the balance of 2002, future sales of assets to generate proceeds to be used to reduce outstanding debt and the lowering of expenses, in part through an enhanced benefit early retirement program which concluded during the second quarter. Towards these plans and in satisfaction of continued liquidity demands, Williams completed debt issuances and sold one of its regulated interstate pipelines. In addition, the company completed a consent agreement on behalf of the WCG obligations that precluded immediate performance by Williams in the event of a bankruptcy filing by WCG. In addition, the plan included the elimination of certain "ratings triggers" that would give rise to options to put or accelerate debt or cause redemption of preferred interests. Exposure to these ratings triggers was removed by the third quarter of 2002. Williams also had exposure to ratings triggers through certain contracts of Energy Marketing & Trading which are discussed under Credit Ratings within Financial Condition and Liquidity. During the second quarter of 2002, Williams experienced liquidity constraints, the effect of which limited Energy Marketing & Tradings ability to manage market risk and exercise hedging strategies as market liquidity deteriorated. During May 2002, major rating agencies lowered their credit ratings on Williams unsecured long term debt; however, the ratings remained investment grade for the balance of the second quarter. Williams announced it was expanding the scope of its plan to preserve its investment grade ratings, which included its intentions to offer for sale its two refineries and related assets, further reduce capital expenditures, scale back the operations of its Energy Marketing & Trading business and reduce its work force accordingly. Williams experienced a substantial net loss for the second quarter of 2002. The loss primarily resulted from a decline in Energy Marketing & Tradings results and reflected a significant decline in the forward mark to market value of its portfolio, the costs associated with terminated power projects, and the partial impairment of goodwill reflecting a decline in fair value from the deteriorating energy merchant market conditions. Williams also recognized asset impairments and cost write offs of certain of its assets, in large part a result of asset sale considerations and terminated projects reflecting a reduced capital expenditure program. In addition, the board of directors reduced the common stock dividend for the third quarter from the prior level of $.20 per share to $.01 per share. In July 2002, the major rating agencies downgraded Williams unsecured long term debt credit ratings to below investment grade, reflecting the uncertainty associated with the trading business, short term cash requirements facing Williams and the increased level of debt the company had incurred to meet the WCG payment obligations and guarantees. Concurrent with these events, Williams was unable to complete a renewal of its unsecured short term bank facility which expired on July 24, 2002. Subsequently, Williams and a subsidiary obtained two secured facilities totaling $1.3 billion, including a letter of credit facility for $400 million and a $900 million short term loan (RMT note payable), and amended its existing revolving credit facility, which expires July 2005, to make it secured. These facilities include pledges of certain assets and contain financial ratios and other covenants that must be maintained (see 50 Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Included in these covenants are provisions that limit the ability to incur future indebtedness, pledge assets and pay dividends on common stock. In addition, debt and related commitments from banks must be reduced based on proceeds of asset sales and minimum levels of required current and future liquidity were established. If such provisions of these facilities are not adhered to, then Williams lenders can declare all amounts outstanding to be immediately due and payable. Also following the credit rating downgrade and in response to a potential liquidity shortfall, Williams sold certain exploration and production properties and substantially all of its natural gas liquids pipeline systems, receiving net cash proceeds of approximately $1.5 billion and resulting in gains on sales of $443 million ($302 million of which is reflected in discontinued operations). These actions, combined with the RMT note payable noted previously, provided proceeds to meet notes payable maturities. Williams also sold certain liquified natural gas assets for approximately $229 million, its 27 percent ownership interest in a Lithuanian refinery, pipeline and terminal investment for $85 million and its $75 million note receivable from the Lithuanian investment for face value. These transactions closed in September. Additionally in 2002, Williams board of directors had approved for sale the Central natural gas pipeline unit, the soda ash mining operations, the Memphis refinery, bio energy operations and the travel centers. The sale of Central closed in November 2002. The sales of the travel centers for $190 million before debt repayments and the Memphis refinery for $455 million were completed in February and March 2003, respectively. The remaining assets are expected to be sold in the first half of 2003. Concurrent with Williams strategy of selling assets to reduce debt, reviews for impairment were performed on assets that were being considered for possible sale, including an assessment of the more likely than not probabilities of sale for each asset. The impairment reviews are updated to incorporate new information obtained through the maturation of the assets sales process or closing of a sale. Impairments and losses totaling $814 million on completed transactions and certain assets held for sale, are reported in discontinued operations for 2002 and an additional $378 million of impairments or guarantee loss accruals are reported in continuing operations for 2002. These impairments reflected managements estimate of the fair value of these assets based on information available at the time of the respective reviews. OUTLOOK FOR 2003 On February 20, 2003, Williams outlined its planned business strategy for the next several years and believes it to be a comprehensive response to the events which have impacted the energy sector and Williams during 2002. The plan focuses on retaining a strong, but smaller, portfolio of natural gas businesses and bolstering Williams liquidity through more asset sales, limited levels of financing at the subsidiary level and additional reductions in its operating costs. The plan is designed to provide Williams with a clear strategy to address near term and medium term liquidity issues and further de leverage the company with the objective of returning to investment grade status by 2005, while retaining businesses with favorable returns and opportunities for growth in the future. As part of this plan, Williams expects to generate proceeds, net of related debt, of nearly $4 billion from asset sales during 2003, including approximately $2.25 billion in newly announced offerings combined with those assets already under contract or in negotiations for sale. Newly announced offerings include the Texas Gas pipeline system, Williams investment in Williams Energy Partners, and certain properties and assets within Exploration & Production and Midstream Gas & Liquids. The specific assets and the timing of such sales are dependent on various factors, including negotiations with prospective buyers, regulatory approvals, industry conditions, lender consents to sales of collateral and the short and long term liquidity requirements of Williams. While management believes it has considered all relevant information in assessing for potential impairments, the ultimate sales price for assets that may be sold and the final decisions in the future may result in additional impairments or losses and or gains. FACTORS AFFECTING WILLIAMS BUSINESS During 2002, the operating results of Energy Marketing & Trading were adversely affected by several factors, including Williams overall liquidity and credit ratings which impacted Energy Marketing & Tradings ability to enter into price risk management and hedging activities. The credit rating downgrades in 2002 also triggered certain Energy Marketing & Trading contractual provisions that require Williams to provide counterparties with adequate assurance, margin, credit enhancement, or credit replacement. See the Liquidity 51 section for further discussion of what amounts Williams and Energy Marketing & Trading have provided. During the later half of 2002, several companies in the energy trading sector announced that they are either reducing commitments to, or exiting altogether, the energy trading business. These market conditions plus the unwillingness of existing counterparties and new entrants to the sector to enter into new business with Energy Marketing & Trading will continue to affect results in the future and could result in additional operating losses. Additionally, on October 25, 2002, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) concluded in Issue No. 02 3, "Issues Related to Accounting for Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities," to rescind Issue No. 98 10, "Accounting for Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities," under which non derivative energy trading contracts were previously marked to market. As a result, a substantial portion of the Energy Marketing & Trading activities previously required to be reported on a fair value basis must now be reflected under the accrual method of accounting beginning January 1, 2003 (see Note 1). Williams continues its efforts to reduce the risk and liquidity impact of Energy Marketing & Trading on Williams. Part of these efforts includes the announced sale of certain portions of its trading portfolio, liquidation of certain trading positions and negotiations with parties for a joint venture or sale of all or a large portion of the trading portfolio. It is possible that Williams, in order to generate levels of liquidity that are needed in the future, would be willing to accept amounts for all or a portion or its entire portfolio that are less than its carrying value at December 31, 2002. Although the results of these negotiations could reduce the presence of the trading business, Energy Marketing & Trading will continue to be operated to meet the commitments of its remaining short and long term contracts. At December 31, 2002, Williams has maturing notes payable and long term debt totaling approximately $3.8 billion (which includes certain contractual fees and deferred interest associated with an underlying debt) through the first quarter of 2004. The Companys available liquidity to meet these requirements and fund a reduced level of capital expenditures will be dependent on several factors, including the cash flows of retained businesses, the amount of proceeds raised from the sale of assets previously mentioned and the price of natural gas. Future cash flows from operations may also be affected by the timing and nature of the sale of assets. Because of recent asset sales, anticipated asset sales and available secured credit facilities, Williams currently believes that it has the financial resources and liquidity to meet future cash requirements through the first quarter of 2004. In the event that Williams financial condition does not improve or becomes worse, or if it fails to complete asset sales and reduce its commitment to its Energy Marketing & Trading business, Williams may have to consider other options including the possibility of seeking protection in a bankruptcy proceeding. GENERAL As a result of assets sales approved or closed during 2002 and in accordance with the provisions related to discontinued operations within Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets," the following components have been reported as discontinued operations (see Note 2): Kern River Gas Transmission (Kern River), previously one of Gas Pipelines segments Central natural gas pipeline, previously one of Gas Pipelines segments Colorado soda ash mining operations, part of the previously reported International segment Two natural gas liquids pipeline systems, Mid American Pipeline and Seminole Pipeline, previously part of the Midstream Gas & Liquids segment Refining and marketing operations in the Midsouth, including the Midsouth refinery, previously part of the Petroleum Services segment Retail travel centers concentrated in the Midsouth, previously part of the Petroleum Services segment Bio energy operations, previously part of the Petroleum Services segment 52 On March 30, 2001, the board of directors of Williams approved a tax free spinoff of Williams communications business, WCG, to Williams shareholders. On April 23, 2001, Williams distributed 398.5 million shares, or approximately 95 percent of the WCG common stock held by Williams, to holders of record of Williams common stock. As a result, the consolidated financial statements reflect WCG as discontinued operations. Unless otherwise indicated, the following discussion and analysis of results of operations, financial condition and liquidity relates to the continuing operations of Williams and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included within Item 8. All prior period information has been restated to reflect these changes. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES & ESTIMATES Our financial statements reflect the selection and application of accounting policies which require management to make significant estimates and assumptions. The selection of these has been discussed with the companys Audit Committee and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosures that follow. We believe that the following are some of the more critical judgment areas in the application of our accounting policies that currently affect our financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition Gas Pipeline Most of Gas Pipelines businesses are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). The FERC regulatory processes and procedures govern the tariff rates that the Gas Pipeline subsidiaries are permitted to charge customers for natural gas sales and services, including the interstate transportation and storage of natural gas. Accordingly, certain revenues are collected by Gas Pipeline which may be subject to refunds upon final orders in rate cases with the FERC. In recording estimates of refund obligations, Gas Pipeline takes into consideration Gas Pipelines and other third parties regulatory proceedings, advice of counsel and estimated total exposure, as discounted and risk weighted, as well as collection and other risks. At December 31, 2002, approximately $9 million was recorded as subject to refund, reflecting managements estimate of amounts invoiced to customers that may ultimately require refunding. This balance is associated entirely with one of Williams gas pipelines as there are no significant rate proceedings currently pending for the other pipelines. During 2002, rate refund liability accruals were reduced by $87 million as a result of settlements of regulatory proceedings including amounts refunded to customers. From time to time, certain of the Gas Pipeline subsidiaries are involved in rate case proceedings. Depending on the results of these proceedings, the actual amounts allowed to be collected from customers could differ from managements estimate. Revenue Recognition Energy risk management and trading operations Energy Marketing & Trading and the natural gas liquids trading operations (reported within the Midstream Gas & Liquids segment) have energy risk management and trading operations that enter into energy and energy related contracts to trade with and provide price risk management services to its customers. Energy and energy related contracts utilized in energy risk management and trading activities are recorded at fair value with the net change in fair value of those contracts representing unrealized gains and losses recognized in income currently (marked to market). The fair value of energy and energy related contracts is determined based on the nature of the transaction and the market in which transactions are executed. Certain contracts are executed in exchange traded or over the counter markets where quoted prices in active markets may exist. Transactions are also executed in exchange traded or over the counter markets for which market prices may exist, however, the market may be relatively inactive and price transparency is limited. Hence, the ability to determine the fair value of the contract would be more subjective than if an independent third party quote were available. Transactions are also executed for which quoted market prices are not available. Determining fair value for certain contracts involves complex assumptions and judgments when estimating prices at which market participants would transact if a market existed for the contract or transaction. 53 On October 25, 2002, the (EITF) concluded in Issue No. 02 3 to rescind Issue No. 98 10, under which non derivative energy trading contracts were previously marked to market. A substantial portion of the energy marketing and trading activities previously reported on a fair value basis will now be reflected under the accrual method of accounting beginning January 1, 2003. In addition, trading inventories will also no longer be marked to market but will be reported on a lower of cost or market basis. Upon adoption of this new standard on January 1, 2003, Energy Marketing & Trading and the natural gas liquids trading operations (reported within the Midstream Gas & Liquids segment) will record a charge as a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle. The impact of this change in accounting principle is expected to result in a decrease to net income of approximately $750 million to $800 million in total on an after tax basis for both business units. For further discussion on this issue, please refer to Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounting for Energy Marketing & Tradings energy related contracts, which include contracts such as transportation, storage, load serving, and tolling agreements, requires Williams to assess whether certain of these contracts are executory service agreements or leases pursuant to SFAS No. 13, "Accounting for Leases." On January 23, 2003, the EITF reached a tentative consensus on Issue No. 01 8, "Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease," and directed the Working Group it had formed to consider this issue to further address certain matters, including transition. The March 14, 2003 report of the Working Group indicates the Working Group supports a prospective transition of this Issue, where the consensus would be applied to arrangements consummated or substantively modified after the date of the final consensus. Williams preliminary review indicates that certain of its tolling agreements could be considered to be leases under the tentative consensus. Accordingly, if the EITF did not adopt a prospective transition and applied the consensus to existing arrangements there could be a significant impact to Williams financial position and results of operations. As a result of Williams current liquidity constraints, Energy Marketing & Trading initiated efforts in 2002 to sell all or portions of its portfolio and or pursue potential joint venture or business combination opportunities. No assurances can be made regarding the ultimate consummation of any sales or business combination activities currently being pursued. Energy Marketing & Trading is continuing to evaluate its potential alternatives. As discussed further in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, portions of Energy Marketing & Tradings portfolio have been recognized at their estimated fair value, which per generally accepted accounting principles is the amount at which they could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties other than in a forced liquidation or sale. Given the financial condition and liquidity constraints of Williams, however, amounts ultimately realized in any portfolio sales or business combination may be significantly different than fair value estimates presented in the financial statements. Additional discussion of the accounting for energy and energy related contracts at fair value is included in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Fair Value of Energy risk management and trading activities. Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets Williams is required to assess the ultimate realization of deferred tax assets generated from the basis difference in certain investments and businesses. This assessment takes into consideration tax planning strategies, including assumptions regarding the availability and character of future taxable income. At December 31, 2002, Williams maintains $43.2 million of valuation allowances for deferred tax assets from basis differences in investments and capital loss carry forward generated during the year for which the ultimate realization of the tax asset may be dependent on the availability of future capital gains. In arriving at this conclusion, management considered forecasts of future company performance, particularly the estimated impact of potential asset dispositions. The ultimate amount of deferred tax assets realized could be materially different from those recorded, as influenced by potential changes in federal income laws and the circumstances upon the actual realization of related tax assets. 54 Impairment of Long Lived Assets and Goodwill Williams evaluates the long lived assets of identifiable business activities for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate, in managements judgment, that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. In addition to those long lived assets for which impairment charges were recorded (see Notes 2 and 4), numerous others were reviewed for which no impairment was required under a "held for use" computation, pursuant to Williams announced strategy of selling assets as a source of funds to meet debt obligations and provide liquidity. These computations utilized judgments and assumptions inherent in managements estimate of undiscounted future cash flows and "hold for use" versus sale probabilities to determine recoverability of an asset. Pursuant to Williams announced strategy during 2002 of selling significant levels of assets, numerous assets were considered more likely than not to be sold substantially in advance of their established recovery periods. To facilitate the actual sales, a reserve price auction process was employed for many of the assets. This type of process is one in which initial bids are received by interested parties, followed by submission of revised bids, with the company eventually selecting a single party in which to finalize a sale transaction. Under terms of the process, Williams is not obligated to accept an offer that it does not deem satisfactory. As a result, both the estimated fair value of an asset and managements assessment of the probability of sale often change through the course of the process. At December 31, 2002, certain assets are in various stages of sale negotiations. With respect to the most significant of these, a ten percent decrease in estimated fair value would result in additional impairment charges of approximately $80 million, while a ten percent increase in fair value would result in a decrease of impairment charges of approximately $70 million. It is possible that a computation under a "held for sale" situation for certain of these long lived assets could result in a significantly different assessment because of market conditions, specific transaction terms and a buyers different viewpoint of future cash flows. Goodwill is evaluated annually for impairment. Approximately $1 billion of Williams goodwill is carried by Exploration & Production for which the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, including goodwill, by over 75 percent. Contingent Liabilities Williams records liabilities for estimated loss contingencies when it is managements assessment that a loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Revisions to contingent liabilities are reflected in income in the period in which new or different facts or information become known or circumstances change that affect the previous assumptions with respect to the likelihood or amount of loss. Liabilities for contingent losses are based upon managements assumptions and estimates, advice of legal counsel or other third parties regarding the probable outcomes of the matter. Should the outcome differ from the assumptions and estimates, revisions to the estimated liabilities for contingent losses would be required. See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 55 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CONSOLIDATED OVERVIEW The following table and discussion is a summary of Williams consolidated results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 2002. The results of operations by segment are discussed in further detail following this Consolidated Overview discussion. YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (MILLIONS) Revenues............................................. $ 5,608.4 $ 7,065.5 $6,559.3 Operating income..................................... $ 790.8 $ 2,317.7 $1,936.8 Interest accrued net.............................. (1,200.5) (682.2) (606.9) Investing income (loss).............................. (109.7) (168.6) 89.1 Interest rate swap loss.............................. (124.2) Minority interest in income and preferred returns of consolidated subsidiaries.......................... (79.3) (80.7) (56.8) Other income (expense) net........................ 26.4 26.1 (.3) Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes....................................... (696.5) 1,412.3 1,361.9 (Provision) benefit for income taxes................. 195.0 (609.6) (541.5) Income (loss) from continuing operations............. (501.5) 802.7 820.4 Loss from discontinued operations.................... (253.2) (1,280.4) (296.1) Net income (loss).................................... (754.7) (477.7) 524.3 Preferred stock dividends............................ 90.1 Income (loss) applicable to common stock............. $ (844.8) $ (477.7) $ 524.3 2002 vs. 2001 CONSOLIDATED OVERVIEW. Williams revenue decreased $1,457.1 million, or 21 percent, due primarily to lower revenues associated with energy risk management and trading activities at Energy Marketing & Trading and the absence of $184 million of revenue related to the 198 convenience stores sold in May 2001 within Petroleum Services. Partially offsetting these decreases was the impact of an increase in net production volumes within Exploration & Production partly due to the August 2001 acquisition of Barrett Resources Corporation (Barrett). Costs and operating expenses decreased $193.1 million, or 5 percent, due primarily to the absence of the 198 convenience stores sold in May 2001 and lower fuel and product shrink gas purchases related to processing activities at Midstream Gas & Liquids. Slightly offsetting these decreases are increased depletion, depreciation and amortization and lease operating expenses at Exploration & Production due primarily to the addition of the former Barrett operations. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $69.1 million due primarily to lower variable compensation levels at Energy Marketing & Trading. Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2002 also include approximately $22 million of early retirement costs, $10 million of employee related severance costs and approximately $6 million related to early payoff of employee stock ownership plan expenses. Other (income) expense net in 2002, that is part of operating income, includes $244.6 million of impairment charges and loss accruals within Energy Marketing & Trading comprised of $138.8 million of impairments and loss accruals for commitments for certain power assets associated with terminated power projects, $61.1 million goodwill impairments and a $44.7 million impairment charge related to the Worthington generation facility sold in January 2003. Also included in other (income) expense net in 2002 are 56 $115 million of impairment charges related to Midstream Gas & Liquids Canadian assets and $18.4 million of impairment charges within Petroleum Services related to the Alaska refinery and convenience store assets. Partially offsetting these impairment charges and accruals are $141.7 million of net gains on sales of natural gas production properties at Exploration & Production in 2002. Other (income) expense net in 2001 includes a $75.3 million gain on the May 2001 sale of the convenience stores and impairment charges of $13.8 million and $12.1 million within Midstream Gas & Liquids and Petroleum Services, respectively (see Note 4). General corporate expenses increased $18.5 million, or 15 percent, due primarily to approximately $15 million of costs related to consulting services and legal fees associated with the liquidity and business issues addressed beginning third quarter 2002, $6 million of expense related to the enhanced benefit early retirement program offered to certain employee groups and $6 million of expense related to employee severance costs. Partially offsetting these increases were lower charitable contributions and advertising costs. Operating income decreased $1,526.9 million, or 66 percent, due primarily to lower net revenues associated with energy risk management and trading activities at Energy Marketing & Trading and the impairment charges and loss accruals noted above. Partially offsetting these decreases are the gains from the sales of natural gas production properties and the impact of increased net production volumes at Exploration & Production, higher demand revenues and the effect of the reductions in rate refund liabilities associated with rate case settlements at Gas Pipeline, higher natural gas liquids margins at Midstream Gas & Liquids and higher equity earnings. Interest accrued net increased $518.3 million, or 76 percent, due primarily to $154 million related to interest expense, including amortization of fees, on the RMT note payable (see Note 11), the $58 million effect of higher average interest rates, the $247 million effect of higher average borrowing levels and $56 million of higher debt issuance cost amortization expense. In 2002, Williams entered into interest rate swaps with external counter parties primarily in support of the energy trading portfolio. The swaps resulted in losses of $124.2 million (see Note 19). The 2002 investing loss decreased $66.9 million as compared to the 2001 investing loss. Investing loss for 2002 and 2001 consisted of the following components: YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31 2002 2001 (MILLIONS) Equity earnings (loss)*..................................... $ 72.0 $ 22.7 Income (loss) from investments*............................. 42.1 4.2 Write down of WCG common stock investment................... (95.9) Loss provision for WCG receivables.......................... (268.7) (188.0) Interest income and other................................... 44.9 88.4 Investing loss.............................................. $(109.7) $(168.6) * These items are also included in the measure of segment profit (loss). The equity earnings increase includes a $27.4 million benefit reflecting a contractual construction completion fee received by an equity method investment of Williams (see Note 3) and $4 million of earnings in 2002 versus $20 million of losses in 2001 from the Discovery pipeline project, partially offset by an equity loss in 2002 of $13.8 million from Williams investment in Longhorn Partners Pipeline LP. Income (loss) from investments in 2002 includes a $58.5 million gain on the sale of Williams equity interest in a Lithuanian oil refinery, pipeline and terminal complex, which was included in the Other segment, a gain of $8.7 million related to the sale of Williams general partner interest in Northern Borders Partners, L.P., a $12.3 million write down of an investment in a pipeline project which was canceled and a $10.4 million net loss on the sale of Williams equity interest in a Canadian and U.S. gas pipeline. Income (loss) from investments in 2001 57 includes a $27.5 million gain on the sale of Williams limited partner equity interest in Northern Border Partners, L.P. offset by a $23.3 million loss from other investments, both which were determined to be other than temporary. See Note 2 for a discussion of the losses related to WCG. Interest income and other decreased due to a $22 million decrease in interest income related to margin deposits, a $4.9 million decrease in dividend income primarily as a result of the second quarter 2001 sale of Ferrell gas Partners L.P. senior common units and write downs of certain foreign investments. Other income (expense) net below operating income increased $.3 million due primarily to an $11 million gain in second quarter 2002 at Gas Pipeline associated with the disposition of securities received through a mutual insurance company reorganization, a $14 million decrease in losses from the sales of receivables to special purpose entities (see Note 15) and the absence in 2002 of a 2001 $10 million payment to settle a claim for coal royalty payments relating to a discontinued activity. Partially offsetting these increases was an $8 million loss related to early retirement of remarketable notes in first quarter 2002. The provision (benefit) for income taxes was favorable by $804.6 million due primarily to a pre tax loss in 2002 as compared to pre tax income in 2001. The effective income tax rate for 2002 is greater than the federal statutory rate due primarily to the effect of taxes on foreign operations, non deductible impairment of goodwill and income tax credits recapture that reduced the tax benefit of the pre tax loss, somewhat offset by the reduction in valuation allowances. The effective income tax rate for 2001 is greater than the federal statutory rate due primarily to valuation allowances associated with the tax benefits for investing losses, for which no tax benefits were provided and the effect of state income taxes. In addition to the operating results from activities included in discontinued operations (see Note 2), the 2002 loss from discontinued operations includes pre tax impairments and losses totaling $814.3. million. The $814.3 million consists of $240.8 million of impairments related to the Memphis refinery, $195.7 million of impairments related to bio energy, $146.6 million of impairments related to travel centers, $133.5 million of impairments related to the soda ash operations, $91.3 million loss on sale related to the Central natural gas pipeline system and a $6.4 million loss on sale related to the Kern River natural gas pipeline system. Partially offsetting these impairments and losses was a pre tax gain of $301.7 million related to the sale of the Mid America and Seminole pipelines. Loss from discontinued operations in 2001 includes a $1.84 billion pre tax charge for loss accruals related to guarantees and payment obligations for WCG and $184.7 million of other pre tax charges for impairments and loss accruals including a $170 million pre tax impairment charge related to the soda ash mining facility. Income (loss) applicable to common stock in 2002 reflects the impact of the $69.4 million associated with accounting for a preferred security that contains a conversion option that was beneficial to the purchaser at the time the security was issued. The weighted average number of shares in 2002 for the diluted calculation (which is the same as the basic calculation due to Williams reporting a loss from continuing operations see Note 6) increased approximately 16 million from December 31, 2001. The increase is due primarily to the 29.6 million shares issued in the Barrett acquisition in August 2001. The increased shares had a dilutive effect on earnings (loss) per share in 2002 of approximately $.05 per share. 2001 vs. 2000 Consolidated Overview. Williams revenues increased $506.2 million, or 8 percent, due primarily to higher gas and electric power trading and services margins, a full year of Canadian operations within Midstream Gas & Liquids acquired in fourth quarter 2000, higher natural gas sales prices and revenues from Barrett acquired in third quarter 2001. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease of $283 million in revenues related to the 198 convenience stores sold in May 2001, $116 million decrease in domestic natural gas liquids revenues and the effect in 2000 of a $69 million reduction of Gas Pipelines rate refund liabilities. Total segment costs and expenses increased $98.2 million, or 2 percent, due primarily to costs for a full year of Canadian operations acquired in fourth quarter 2000 and operating costs associated with Barrett acquired in third quarter 2001. These increases were partially offset by a $286 million decrease in costs as a result of the sale of 198 convenience stores in May 2001 and the $75.3 million gain on the sale of these convenience stores. 58 Operating income increased $380.9 million, or 20 percent, due primarily to higher gas and electric power service margins, the $75.3 million pre tax gain on the sale of the convenience stores in May 2001, increased realized natural gas sales prices, the impact of Barrett and the effect in 2000 of $63.8 million in guarantee loss accruals and impairment charges at Energy Marketing & Trading. Partially offsetting these increases were lower per unit natural gas liquids margins at Midstream Gas & Liquids, the $69 million effect in 2000 of reductions to rate refund liabilities and approximately $26 million of impairment charges and loss accruals within Midstream Gas & Liquids and Petroleum Services. Included in operating income are general corporate expenses which increased $27.1 million, or 28 percent, due primarily to an increase in advertising costs (which includes a branding campaign of $12 million) and higher charitable contributions. Interest accrued net increased $75.3 million, or 12 percent, due primarily to the $71 million effect of higher borrowing levels offset by the $42 million effect of lower average interest rates, $19 million in interest expense related to an unfavorable court decision involving Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line (Transco), a $14 million increase in interest expense related to deposits received from customers relating to energy risk management and trading and hedging activities and a $12 million increase in amortization of debt expense. The increase in long term debt includes the $1.1 billion of senior unsecured debt securities issued in January 2001 and $1.5 billion of long term debt securities issued in August 2001 related to the cash portion of the Barrett acquisition. Investing income decreased $257.7 million, due primarily to fourth quarter 2001 charges for a $103 million provision for doubtful accounts related to the minimum lease payments receivable from WCG, an $85 million provision for doubtful accounts related to a $106 million deferred payment for services provided to WCG and a $25 million write down of the remaining investment basis in WCG common stock (see Note 2). In addition, the decrease also reflects a $94.2 million charge in third quarter 2001, representing declines in the value of certain investments, including $70.9 million related to Williams investment in WCG and $23.3 million related to losses from other investments, which were deemed to be other than temporary (see Note 3). In addition, the decrease in investing income reflects a $13 million decrease in dividend income due to the sale of the Ferrellgas Partners L.P. (Ferrellgas) senior common units in second quarter 2001. The decreases to investing income (loss) were slightly offset by increased interest income related to margin deposits of $17 million. Minority interest in income and preferred returns of consolidated subsidiaries increased $23.9 million, or 42 percent, due primarily to preferred returns of Snow Goose LLC, formed in December 2000, and minority interest in income of Williams Energy Partners L.P., partially offset by a $10 million decrease of preferred returns related to the second quarter 2001 redemption of Williams obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of Trust. Other income (expense) net increased $26.4 million to $26.1 million of income in 2001 due primarily to an $11 million increase in capitalization of interest on internally generated funds related to various capital projects at certain FERC regulated entities and $6 million lower losses from the sales of receivables to special purpose entities (see Note 15). The provision for income taxes increased $68.1 million primarily due to higher pre tax income and increase in valuation allowance. The effective income tax rate for 2001 is greater than the federal statutory rate due primarily to valuation allowances associated with the investing losses, for which no tax benefits were provided plus the effects of state income taxes. The effective income tax rate for 2000 is greater than the federal statutory rate due primarily to the effects of state income taxes. In addition to the operating results from the activities included in discontinued operations (see Note 2), the loss from discontinued operations for 2001 includes a $1.84 billion pre tax charge for loss accruals for contingent obligations related to guarantees and payment obligations for WCG, $184.7 million of other pre tax charges for impairments and loss accruals including a $170 million pre tax impairment charge related to the soda ash mining facility. Loss from discontinued operations in 2000 primarily represents the operating results of the operations. 59 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SEGMENTS Williams is currently organized into the following segments: Energy Marketing & Trading, Gas Pipeline, Exploration & Production, Midstream Gas & Liquids, Williams Energy Partners and Petroleum Services. Certain activities previously reported within the International segment have been included in Other. Williams currently evaluates performance based upon segment profit (loss) from operations (see Note 19). In addition to the impact to the segments as a result of discontinued operations previously discussed, the following changes occurred in 2002: Effective July 1, 2002, management of certain operations previously conducted by Energy Marketing & Trading, International and Petroleum Services was transferred to Midstream Gas & Liquids. These operations included natural gas liquids trading, activities in Venezuela and a petrochemical plant, respectively. On April 11, 2002, Williams Energy Partners L.P., a partially owned and consolidated entity of Williams, acquired Williams Pipe Line, an operation previously included within the Petroleum Services segment. Accordingly, Williams Pipe Lines results of operations have been transferred from the Petroleum Services segment to the Williams Energy Partners segment. Management of an investment in an Argentine oil and gas exploration company was transferred from the previously reported International segment to the Exploration & Production segment to align exploration and production activities. Prior period amounts have been restated to reflect these changes. The following discussions relate to the results of operations of Williams segments. ENERGY MARKETING & TRADING YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (MILLIONS) Segment revenues....................................... $ (85.2) $1,705.6 $1,295.1 Segment profit (loss).................................. $(624.8) $1,270.0 $ 970.6 2002 vs. 2001 ENERGY MARKETING & TRADINGS revenues decreased $1,790.8 million, or 105 percent, due primarily to a $1,783.3 million decrease in risk management and trading revenues. During 2002, Energy Marketing & Tradings results were adversely affected by the impact of market movements against its portfolio as discussed below and a significant reduction in origination activities. Energy Marketing & Tradings ability to manage or hedge its portfolio against adverse market movements was limited by a lack of market liquidity as well as Williams limited ability to provide credit and liquidity support. The $1,783.3 million decrease in risk management and trading revenues is due primarily to a decrease of $1,901.4 million in the natural gas and power revenues partially offset by a $6.3 million increase in the petroleum products revenues, a $12 million increase in European trading revenues, and a $99.8 million increase in revenues from the net impact of interest rate movements including the impact of interest derivatives. The $1,783.3 million decrease in the risk management and trading revenues includes a $205 million decrease in revenues from new transactions originated and contract amendments as compared to 2001. Of the $1,901.4 million decline in natural gas and power revenues, $454.9 million is attributable to a decline in natural gas revenues, caused primarily by increasing prices on short natural gas positions during the third quarter of 2002. The remaining $1,446.5 million decline relates to lower revenues from the power portfolio caused primarily by smaller spark spreads on certain power tolling portfolios and lower volatility (the fair value of Energy Marketing & Tradings tolling agreements are adversely affected by declines in power and gas volatility) compared with 2001 as well as the net impact of portfolio valuation adjustments associated with the decline in market liquidity and portfolio liquidation activities. The $6.3 million increase in petroleum 60 products revenues is primarily due to origination activities during the first quarter of 2002. The $12 million increase in European trading revenues is principally due to the commencement of trading activities in the European office as compared to start up activities in 2001. The European operations have now been reduced and are in the process of being wound down. As a result of Williams current liquidity constraints, Energy Marketing & Trading initiated efforts in 2002 to sell all or portions of its portfolio and or pursue potential joint venture or business combination opportunities. No assurances can be made regarding the ultimate consummation of any sales or business combination activities currently being pursued. Energy Marketing & Trading is continuing to pursue its potential alternatives. As discussed further in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, portions of Energy Marketing & Tradings portfolio have been recognized at their estimated fair value, which under generally accepted accounting principles is the amount at which they could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties other than in a forced liquidation or sale. As a result of information obtained through the portfolio sales efforts in 2002, the estimated fair value of certain portions of the portfolio were adjusted to reflect viable market information received. For those portions of the portfolio for which no viable market information was received through sales efforts, fair value has been estimated using other market based information and consistent application of valuation techniques. Portfolio valuation adjustments recognized in 2002 as a result of new market information obtained through sales efforts resulted in a $74.8 million decrease in operating profit. Given the financial condition and liquidity constraints of Williams which may accelerate sales, amounts ultimately realized in any portfolio sales or business combination may be significantly different than fair value estimates presented in the financial statements, depending on the timing and terms of any such transactions. Revenues for 2002 also includes a favorable fourth quarter net effect of approximately $85 million resulting from a settlement with the state of California, the restructuring of associated energy contracts, and the related improved credit situation of the counterparties during the quarter. Energy Marketing & Tradings future results will be affected by the reduction in liquidity and credit support available from its parent, the willingness of counterparties to enter into transactions with Energy Marketing & Trading, the liquidity of markets in which Energy Marketing & Trading transacts, and the creditworthiness of other counterparties in the industry and their ability to perform under contractual obligations. Since Williams is not currently rated investment grade by credit rating agencies, Williams is required, in certain instances, to provide additional adequate assurances in the form of cash or credit support to enter into and maintain existing transactions. With the decision to continue to limit Williams financial commitment and exposure to the trading business, it is likely that Energy Marketing & Trading will have greater exposure to market movements, which could result in additional operating losses. In addition, other companies in the energy trading and marketing sector are experiencing financial difficulties which will affect Energy Marketing & Tradings credit and default assessment related to the future value of its forward positions and the ability of such counterparties to perform under contractual obligations. The ultimate outcome of these items could result in significant future operating losses for Energy Marketing & Trading or limit Energy Marketing & Tradings ability to achieve profitable operations. Selling, general, and administrative expenses decreased by $124.7 million, or 37 percent. This cost reduction is primarily due to lower variable compensation levels associated with reduced segment profit and the impact of staff reductions in this segment. Other (income) expense net in 2002 includes $138.8 million of impairments and loss accruals associated with commitments for certain power projects that have been terminated, partial impairment of goodwill totaling $61.1 million, reflecting a decline in fair value resulting from deteriorating market conditions during 2002 and a $44.7 million impairment charge related to the January 2003 sale of the Worthington generation facility. Other (income) expense net in 2001 included $13.3 million due to a terminated expansion project. Segment profit (loss) decreased $1,894.8 million, or 149 percent, due primarily to the $1,783.3 million reduction of risk management and trading revenues and the other (income) expense net items discussed previously, partially offset by the $124.7 million reduction in selling, general and administrative expenses, 61 discussed above, and the $23.3 million charge from the write downs in 2001 of marketable equity securities and a cost based investment (see Note 3). On October 25, 2002, the EITF concluded in Issue No. 02 3 to rescind Issue No. 98 10, under which non derivative energy trading contracts were marked to market. A substantial portion of the energy marketing and trading activities previously reported on a fair value basis will now be reflected under the accrual method of accounting beginning January 1, 2003. Certain of the trading activities utilizing derivative instruments will continue to be reported on a fair value basis to the extent that these instruments are not designated as hedges under SFAS No. 133. The related changes in fair value will be reported as unrealized gains or losses in the consolidated income statement. In addition, trading inventories will no longer be marked to market but will be reported on a lower of cost or market basis. Upon adoption of this new standard on January 1, 2003, Energy Marketing & Trading will record a charge as a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle. Energy Marketing & Tradings portion of the impact of this change in accounting principle is expected to be a decrease to net income of approximately $750 million to $800 million on an after tax basis. For further discussion on this issue, please refer to Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Contingent liabilities and commitments that could affect the results of Energy Marketing & Trading, including a recent settlement between the FERC and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line, Energy Marketing & Trading and Williams are discussed in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 2001 vs. 2000 Energy Marketing & Tradings revenues increased by $410.5 million, or 32 percent in 2001, due primarily to a $402.3 million increase in risk management and trading revenues. The $402.3 million increase in risk management and trading revenues results primarily from an increase in risk management activities surrounding Energy Marketing & Tradings power tolling portfolio. As further discussed in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, power tolling agreements provide Energy Marketing & Trading the right, but not the obligation, to call on the counterparty to convert natural gas to electricity at a predefined heat conversion rate. Energy Marketing & Trading benefited from higher natural gas and electric power services margins through the first quarter of 2001 from power tolling agreements previously recognized in 2000. Energy Marketing & Trading, through its origination of new contracts, executed several offsetting positions throughout the year to mitigate declines in these margins that occurred subsequent to the first quarter 2001. These new contracts consisted of full requirements, load serving and power supply agreements and typically have terms of up to 15 years. Execution of these contracts had the effect of reducing the risk of future changes in natural gas and power prices within the portfolio and also provided further insight into the prices for which third parties would be willing to exchange in illiquid periods. This additional insight provided better information for the valuation of other existing contracts which generally had the effect of increasing the value recognized on these existing contracts. Subsequent to the execution of these origination transactions, natural gas and power prices declined dramatically. As a result of Energy Marketing & Tradings management strategies, this reduction had minimal impact to the overall portfolio fair value. Also contributing to the increase in the risk management and trading revenues during 2001 was an increase in successful forward natural gas financial trading. Through a variety of energy commodity and derivative contracts, Energy Marketing & Trading had credit exposure to Enron and certain of its subsidiaries which have sought protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. During fourth quarter 2001, Energy Marketing & Trading recorded a reduction in trading revenues of approximately $130 million through the valuation of contracts with Enron. Approximately $91 million of this reduction in value was recorded pursuant to events immediately preceding and following Enrons announced bankruptcy. At December 31, 2001, Williams had reduced its exposure to accounts receivable from Enron, net of margin deposits, to expected recoverable amounts. In 2002, Energy Marketing & Trading sold rights to certain Enron receivables to a third party in exchange for $24.5 million cash. That amount was recorded as trading revenues in the first quarter of 2002. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased by $134.7 million, or 68 percent. This cost increase was primarily due to $42.5 million higher variable compensation levels associated with improved 62 operating performance, $19 million of costs related to the European trading and marketing office in London which began operation in 2001, $13 million of increased charitable contributions to state universities, as well as increased outside services costs and increased costs as a result of higher staffing levels. Other (income) expense net in 2001 includes a $13.3 million impairment charge due to a terminated expansion project. In 2000, other (income) expense net included $47.5 million in guarantee loss accruals and impairment charges and $16.3 million impairment of assets related to a distributed generation business. Segment profit increased $299.4 million, or 31 percent, due primarily to the $402.3 million higher trading revenues discussed above and the effect of the $63.8 million of guarantee loss accruals and impairment charges in 2000 noted above. Partially offsetting the increase to segment profit was the $134.7 million increase in selling, general and administrative costs, as discussed above, $23.3 million of write downs in 2001 of marketable equity securities and a cost based investment and the $13.3 million impairment in 2001 noted above. Potential Impact of California Power Regulation and Litigation At December 31, 2002, Energy Marketing & Trading had net accounts receivable recorded of approximately $230 million compared to $388 million at December 31, 2001, for power sales to the California Independent System Operator and the California Power Exchange Corporation (CPEC). In March and April of 2001, two California power related entities, the CPEC and Pacific Gas and Electric Company (PG&E), filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11. While the amount recorded reflects managements best estimate of collectibility, future events or circumstances could change those estimates. As discussed in Rate and regulatory matters and related litigation in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the FERC and the DOJ have issued orders or initiated actions that relate to the activities of Energy Marketing & Trading in California and the western states. In addition to these federal agency actions, a number of federal and state initiatives addressing the issues of the California electric power industry are also ongoing and may result in restructuring of various markets in California and elsewhere. Discussions in California and other states have ranged from threats of re regulation to suspension of plans to move forward with deregulation. Allegations have also been made that the wholesale price increases experienced in 2000 and 2001 resulted from the exercise of market power and collusion of the power generators and sellers, including Energy Marketing & Trading. These allegations have resulted in multiple state and federal investigations as well as the filing of class action lawsuits in which Energy Marketing & Trading is a named defendant. Energy Marketing & Tradings long term power contract with the State of California has also been challenged both at the FERC and in civil suits. Most of these initiatives, investigations and proceedings are in their preliminary stages and their likely outcome cannot be estimated. However, Energy Marketing & Trading and Williams executed a settlement agreement on November 11, 2002, that is intended to resolve many of these disputes with the State of California and that includes renegotiated long term energy contracts. The settlement is also intended to resolve complaints brought by the California Attorney General against Energy Marketing & Trading and the State of Californias refund claims. In addition, the settlement is intended to resolve ongoing investigations by the States of California, Oregon, and Washington. The settlement is subject to various court and agency approvals (see Other legal matters in Note 16). There can be no assurance that these initiatives, investigations and proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on Williams results of operations or financial condition. GAS PIPELINE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (MILLIONS) Segment revenues....................................... $1,503.8 $1,426.0 $1,567.0 Segment profit......................................... $ 661.3 $ 571.7 $ 597.3 During 2002, Williams sold both its Central and Kern River interstate natural gas pipeline businesses. The following discussions exclude any gains or losses on such sales and the results of operations related to 63 these businesses which are reported within discontinued operations. The following discussions relate to the current continuing businesses of the Gas Pipeline segment which include Transco, Texas Gas Transmission (Texas Gas), Northwest Pipeline and various joint venture projects. On February 20, 2003, Williams announced its intention to sell Texas Gas. Segment revenues of Texas Gas were $266.4 million, $249.9 million and $260.9 million in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Segment profit of Texas Gas was $116.2 million, $99.6 million and $103.2 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. 2002 vs. 2001 GAS PIPELINES revenues increased $77.8 million, or 5 percent, due primarily to $67 million higher demand revenues on the Transco system resulting from new expansion projects and new settlement rates effective September 1, 2001, the effect of $19 million in reductions in the rate refund liabilities associated with rate case settlements on the Transco and Texas Gas systems, $16 million higher transportation revenues on the Texas Gas and Northwest Pipeline systems, $9 million from environmental mitigation credit sales and services and $4 million higher revenues associated with tracked costs which are passed through to customers and offset in general and administrative expenses. Partially offsetting these increases were $23 million lower gas exchange imbalance settlements (offset in costs and operating expenses), $14 million lower storage revenues and $7 million lower revenues associated with the recovery of tracked costs which are passed through to customers (offset in costs and operating expenses). The decrease in storage revenues is due primarily to $9 million lower rates on Cove Points short term storage contracts (the Cove Point facility was sold in September 2002) and a $6 million decrease at Transco due primarily to lower storage demand revenues. Costs and operating expenses decreased $33 million, or 5 percent, due primarily to $23 million lower gas exchange imbalance settlements (offset in revenues), $22 million lower operations and maintenance expense due primarily to lower professional and other contractual services and telecommunications expenses, $7 million lower other tracked costs which are passed through to customers (offset in revenues) and a $5 million franchise tax refund for Transco. These decreases were partially offset by the $15 million effect in 2001 of a regulatory reserve reversal resulting from the FERCs approval for recovery of fuel costs incurred in prior periods by Transco, as well as $5 million higher depreciation expense. The $5 million higher depreciation expense reflects a $13 million increase due to increased property, plant and equipment placed into service (including depletion of property held for the environmental mitigation credit sales), partially offset by an $8 million adjustment related to the 2002 rate case settlements resulting in lower depreciation rates applied retrospectively. General and administrative costs increased $22 million, or 11 percent, due primarily to $14 million higher employee related benefits expense, including $8 million related to higher pension and retiree medical expense due to decreases in assumed return on plan assets and approximately $4 million related to expense recognized as a result of accelerated company contributions to an employee stock ownership plan, $11 million in costs associated with an early retirement program, a $5 million write off in 2002 of capitalized software development cost resulting from cancellation of a project and $4 million higher tracked costs (offset in revenues). These increases were partially offset by $13 million lower charitable contributions in 2002. Other (income) expense net in 2002 includes a $17 million charge associated with a FERC penalty (see Note 16) and a $3.7 million loss on the sale of the Cove Point facility. Other (income) expense net in 2001 includes an $18 million charge resulting from the unfavorable court decision and resulting settlement in one of Transcos royalty claims proceedings (an additional $19 million is included in interest expense). Segment profit, which includes equity earnings and income (loss) from investments (both included in investing income), increased $89.6 million, or 16 percent, due primarily to the higher demand revenues discussed above, the $27 million effect of rate refund liability reductions and other adjustments related to the finalization of rate cases during third quarter 2002, $42.1 million higher equity earnings, the lower costs and operating expenses discussed above, the effect of the $18 million charge in 2001 discussed previously in other (income) expense net and an $8.7 million gain in 2002 on the sale of the general partnership interest in Northern Border Partners, L.P. These increases were partially offset by a $10.4 million loss on the sale of Gas Pipelines 14.6 percent ownership interest in Alliance Pipeline, a $12.3 million write down in 2002 of Gas 64 Pipelines investment in a pipeline project that has been cancelled, the effect of a $27.5 million gain in 2001 from the sale of the limited partnership interest in Northern Border Partners, L.P., the $22 million increase in general and administrative costs discussed above, the $17 million FERC penalty and the $3.7 million loss on the sale of the Cove Point facility. The increase in equity earnings includes a $27.4 million benefit in 2002 related to the contractual construction completion fee received by an equity affiliate. This equity affiliate served as the general contractor on the Gulfstream pipeline project for Gulfstream Natural Gas System (Gulfstream), an interstate natural gas pipeline subject to FERC regulation and also an equity affiliate. The fee, paid by Gulfstream and associated with the completion during the second quarter of 2002 of the construction of Gulfstreams pipeline, was capitalized by Gulfstream as property, plant and equipment and is included in Gulfstreams rate base to be recovered in future revenues. Additionally, the equity earnings reflects an $18 million increase from Gulfstream, $12 million of which is related to interest capitalized on the Gulfstream pipeline project in accordance with FERC regulations. 2001 vs. 2000 Gas Pipelines revenues decreased $141 million, or 9 percent, due primarily to the effect of a $69 million reduction of rate refund liabilities in 2000 following the settlement of prior rate proceedings, $72 million lower gas exchange imbalance settlements (offset in costs and operating expenses), $10 million lower recovery of tracked costs which are passed through to customers (offset in general and administrative expenses), and $10 million lower transportation revenues at Texas Gas due primarily to turnback capacity remarketed at discounted rates and for shorter contracted terms. Partially offsetting these decreases were $13 million higher gas transportation demand revenues as a result of new expansion projects and new rates on the Transco system and $9 million higher revenues from a liquefied natural gas storage facility acquired in June 2000. Costs and operating expenses decreased $79 million, or 10 percent, due primarily to the $72 million lower gas exchange imbalance settlements (offset in revenues), $15 million resulting from the FERCs approval for recovery of fuel costs incurred in prior periods by Transco, and $6 million of accruals for gas exchange imbalances in 2000. Partially offsetting these decreases was $16 million in higher depreciation expense due to increased property, plant & equipment placed into service during 2001. General and administrative costs decreased $16 million resulting primarily from lower tracked costs which are passed through to customers (offset in revenues), partially offset by higher charitable contributions. Other (income) expense net in 2001 within segment costs and expenses includes an $18 million charge resulting from an unfavorable court decision in one of Transcos royalty claims proceedings (an additional $19 million is included in interest expense). Segment profit decreased $25.6 million due primarily to the lower revenues discussed previously and the item discussed previously in other (income) expense net. These decreases were partially offset by the lower costs and operating expenses discussed above, a $19 million increase in equity investment earnings from pipeline joint venture projects, a $27.5 million gain from the sale of Williams limited partnership interest in Northern Border Partners, L.P. and the lower general and administrative expenses. The increase in equity investment earnings reflects $13 million from new projects which are primarily comprised of interest capitalized on internally generated funds as allowed by the FERC and a $6 million increase from earnings on existing projects. 65 EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (MILLIONS) Segment revenues........................................... $899.9 $615.2 $331.0 Segment profit............................................. $520.5 $234.1 $ 87.6 On February 20, 2003, Williams announced additional assets to be sold including Exploration & Production properties. Depending on the nature and size of the sales, future operating results could be impacted significantly. 2002 vs. 2001 EXPLORATION & PRODUCTIONS revenues increased $284.7 million, or 46 percent, due primarily to $284 million higher domestic production revenues, $27 million in unrealized gains from the mark to market financial instruments related to basis differentials on natural gas production, partially offset by $28 million lower domestic gas management revenues. The $284 million increase in domestic production revenues includes $254 million associated with an increase in net domestic production volumes as well as $30 million from increased net realized average prices for production (including the effect of hedge positions). The increase in net production volumes mainly results from the acquisition in third quarter 2001 of the former Barrett operations. Approximately 83 percent of domestic production in 2002 was hedged. Exploration & Production has entered into contracts that hedge approximately 85 percent of projected 2003 domestic natural gas production before consideration of any potential property sales in 2003. These hedges are entered into with Energy Marketing & Trading which in turn, enters into offsetting derivative contracts with unrelated third parties. Energy Marketing & Trading bears the counterparty performance risks associated with unrelated third parties. During 2001, a portion of the external derivative contracts was with Enron, which filed for bankruptcy in December 2001. As a result, the contracts were effectively liquidated due to contractual terms concerning bankruptcy and Energy Marketing & Trading recorded estimated charges for the credit exposure. During the third quarter of 2002, Energy Marketing & Trading had additional contracts not related to Enron that were terminated. The other comprehensive income related to these terminated contracts remains in accumulated other comprehensive income and is recognized as the underlying volumes are produced. During 2002, approximately $35 million related to the terminated contracts was recognized as revenues while $45 million remains in accumulated other comprehensive income at December 31, 2002. Domestic gas management revenues consist primarily of marketing activities within the Exploration & Production segment that are not a direct part of the results of operations for producing activities. These non producing activities include acquisition and disposition of other working interest and royalty interest gas and the movement of gas from the wellhead to the tailgate of the respective plants for sale to Energy Marketing & Trading or third parties. Costs and operating expenses, including selling, general and administrative expenses, increased $131 million, due primarily to increased depreciation, depletion and amortization, lease operating expenses and selling, general and administrative expenses due primarily to the addition of the former Barrett operations. The increases were partially offset by decreased gas management purchase costs. Other (income) expense net in 2002 includes $120.3 million and $21.4 million in gains from the sales of substantially all of the interests in natural gas production properties in the Jonah field (Wyoming) and in the Anadarko Basin, respectively. The Jonah field properties represented approximately 11 percent of total reserves at December 31, 2001, the absence of which could impact future revenue levels. Segment profit increased $286.4 million due primarily to the gains from asset sales mentioned above, increased production volumes, and higher net realized average prices. Segment profit also includes $11.8 million and $15.4 million related to international activities for 2002 and 2001, respectively. 66 2001 vs. 2000 Exploration & Productions revenues increased $284.2 million, or 86 percent, due primarily to $263 million higher domestic production revenues including $119 million from increased net realized prices for production (including the effect of hedge positions) and $144 million associated with an increase in net volumes from domestic production. Approximately $115 million of the $144 million increase relates to volumes associated with Barrett, which became a consolidated entity on August 2, 2001. Approximately 75 percent of domestic production in 2001 was hedged. Revenues from domestic gas management activities increased $14 million. Segment costs and operating expenses increased $141 million, including a $24 million increase in selling, general and administrative expense. Segment costs and operating expenses increased due primarily to costs related to Barrett operations, comprised primarily of depreciation, depletion and amortization, lease operating expenses and gas management costs. In addition to the increase as a result of the Barrett acquisition, the higher segment costs and operating expenses reflect $10 million higher domestic lease operating expenses, $8 million higher domestic depreciation, depletion and amortization expenses and $6 million higher domestic production related taxes. Other income (expense) net in 2000 includes a $6 million impairment charge for certain gas producing properties. The charge represented the impairment of these held for sale assets to fair value based on expected net proceeds. These properties were sold in March 2001. Segment profit increased $146.5 million, or 167 percent, due primarily to the higher domestic production revenues in excess of costs. A major portion of this increase can be attributed to the Barrett acquisition. In addition, segment profit included $9 million in equity earnings from the 50 percent investment in Barrett held by Williams for the period from June 11, 2001 through August 2, 2001, partially offset by $6 million lower equity earnings from an Argentina oil and gas investment. MIDSTREAM GAS & LIQUIDS YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (MILLIONS) Segment revenues....................................... $1,909.1 $1,906.8 $1,574.3 Segment profit......................................... $ 189.3 $ 171.9 $ 278.0 In August 2002, Williams completed the sale of 98 percent of Mapletree LLC and 98 percent of E Oaktree, LLC to Enterprise Products Partners L.P. Mapletree owned all of Mid America Pipeline, a 7,226 mile natural gas liquids pipeline system. E Oaktree owned 80 percent of the Seminole Pipeline, a 1,281 mile natural gas liquids pipeline system. The gains on the sale of these businesses and the related results of operations have been reported as discontinued operations. Williams has also announced the intended sale of additional assets, including certain operations in Canada. Future asset sales would have the effect of lowering liquid product sales in periods following their sale but are expected to be offset by increasing deepwater or gathering and transportation revenue. The following discussion reflects the results of Midstream Gas & Liquids continuing operations. 2002 vs 2001 MIDSTREAM GAS & LIQUIDS revenues increased $2.3 million as a result of a $60.3 million increase in domestic gathering, processing, transportation and liquid product sales revenues, a $48.7 million increase in Venezuelan revenues and a $10.3 million increase in Canadian revenues, offset by a $117 million decline in domestic petrochemical and trading revenues. The $60.3 million increase in domestic gathering, processing, transportation and liquid product sales revenues was driven by a $34 million increase in liquid sales, a $39 million increase in liquid product sales from Gulf Liquids, (a new off gas processing and olefin extraction facility that became a consolidated subsidiary in September 2002) and a $10 million increase in transportation revenues. Partially offsetting these increases is a $17 million decrease in gathering revenues primarily due to the third quarter 2002 sale of the 67 Kansas Hugoton gathering system. The increase in liquid sales reflects a $67 million increase in gulf coast liquid sales resulting from higher production at existing processing facilities and the September 2001 completion of a new processing facility that processes natural gas gathered from deepwater projects off the coast of Texas. Offsetting the increase in gulf coast liquid sales was a $33 million decline in liquid sales in the west, primarily caused by a decline in average liquid sales prices. The $10 million increase in transportation revenues reflects the results of a new deepwater oil and gas transportation system which was completely operational by mid year. The $117 million decline in petrochemicals and trading revenues is due largely to a change in the reporting during September 2001 of certain petrochemical and liquid product trading transactions from a gross revenue basis to a net revenue basis combined with lower natural gas liquid trading margins. The $48.7 million increase in Venezuelan revenues reflects a full year of results from a new gas compression facility that began operations in August 2001. The increase in Canadian revenues results from a $56 million increase in natural gas liquids product sales from fractionation activities reflecting a 48 percent increase in volumes. The increase in volumes sold was partially offset by a 19 percent decline in average liquid product sales prices. The increase in volumes resulted from improvements made at a parafins facility and higher volumes of natural gas liquid supply from processing facilities within Northern Alberta and British Columbia. The increase in Canadian revenues is partially offset by a $24 million decrease in processing revenues reflecting lower processing rates under cost of service agreements as a result of lower natural gas shrink prices combined with a $24 million decrease in liquid sales from processing activities which reflects lower average liquid sales prices. Costs and operating expenses decreased $112 million, or 7 percent, primarily reflecting a decline in fuel and product shrink costs at the Wyoming and Canadian processing facilities of $21 million and $85 million ($41 million from costs under cost of service processing agreements), respectively. These decreases reflect lower average natural gas prices in Canada and Wyoming, offset by higher volumes and prices in the gulf coast. The lower average gas prices in Wyoming during 2002 reflect a favorable differential between gas prices in Wyoming and the gulf as a result of limited transportation capacity from Wyoming to other markets. This favorable basis differential had the effect of lower shrink costs and increasing liquid sales margins from Wyoming processing plants and is not expected to continue once take away transportation capacity within this region has been expanded. Costs and operating expenses also reflect a $92 million decline in petrochemical and trading costs resulting from the change in reporting certain product trading classifications in September 2001, as discussed above. Partially offsetting these decreases are $32 million of higher product shrink costs at Gulf Liquids operations, $30 million higher depreciation costs from the addition of Gulf Liquids and other new facilities combined with $14 million higher transportation, fractionation, and marketing costs. Operations and maintenance expenses were relatively unchanged on a segment basis, with a $32 million decline in costs in the west primarily resulting from lower maintenance spending, offset by a corresponding increase in the gulf, Canada and Venezuela largely driven by the higher maintenance costs resulting from the new Venezuelan gas compression facility, Canadian olefins facility, the Gulf Liquids facilities and new deepwater offshore operations. Selling, general and administrative costs increased $10 million primarily due to the consolidation of Gulf Liquids during 2002. Other (income) expense net within segment costs and expense for 2002 includes a $115 million impairment associated with the Canadian processing, extraction and olefin extraction assets (see Note 4) and a $6 million impairment associated with the sale of the Kansas Hugoton gathering system in the third quarter. Reflected in 2001 are $13.8 million of impairment charges related to certain south Texas non regulated gathering and processing assets. Segment profit of $189.3 million for 2002 was largely impacted by a $115 million impairment on Canadian natural gas processing, extraction and olefin extraction assets during the fourth quarter. Before this impairment charge, Midstream Gas & Liquids 2002 segment profit reflects a $132 million increase over 2001. 68 This increase reflects a $70 million increase in domestic operations, a $20 million increase in Venezuelan operations and a $42 million increase in Canadian operations. Domestic segment profit reflects a $45 million increase in liquid sales margins resulting from the low fuel and shrink costs in the west reflecting the wide basis differential for natural gas prices in Wyoming. Domestic segment profit also increased $32 million due to income from equity investments primarily related to significant improvements in the operations of Discovery pipeline following new supply connections that resulted in higher transportation and liquid volumes. Domestic segment profit was also impacted by a $16 million increase in profits from an increase in deepwater operations, offset by $25 million in losses resulting from operational issues associated with Gulf Liquids. The increase in segment profit from Canadian operations (excluding the $115 million impairment discussed above) resulted from a $23 million increase in liquid product margins from fractionation activities due to higher liquid sales volumes and prices combined with a $37 million increase in liquid sales margins from processing activities primarily resulting from lower shrink costs. Offsetting these increases are higher depreciation, and operations and maintenance expense primarily resulting from the new olefins fractionation facility. Segment profit from Venezuelan operations reflects an increase resulting from a full year of results following the completion of a new gas compression facility in August 2001. Midstream Gas & Liquids Venezuelan assets were constructed and are currently operated for the exclusive benefit of Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA), the state owned Petroleum Corporation of Venezuela. During December 2002 and January 2003, a countrywide strike took place within Venezuela that resulted in significant political instability and a volatile economic environment. Employees of PDVSA joined this strike, which had an impact on the operations of most of the Venezuelan facilities. All owned facilities are presently operating. However, an operating agreement for the PDVSA owned oil terminaling facility is the subject of a contract dispute with PDVSA. The ultimate impact the political and economic situation within Venezuela will have on Midstream Gas and Liquids revenues, segment profits and operating cash flows will depend upon the extent and duration of the political and economic instability and the enforceability of certain contractual arrangements provisions with PDVSA. 2001 vs. 2000 Midstream Gas & Liquids revenues increased $332.5 million, or 21 percent, due primarily to $564 million in revenues for the first three quarters of 2001 from Canadian operations that were acquired in October 2000. The $564 million of increased revenues from Canadian operations consists primarily of $270 million of natural gas liquids sales from processing activities, $205 million of natural gas liquids sales from fractionation activities, and $81 million of processing revenues. Canadian revenues decreased $57 million for the comparable periods of 2001 and 2000 due primarily to natural gas liquids product sales price decline. Revenues were $32 million higher due to a new Venezuelan gas compression facility which began operations in August 2001. Revenues from domestic natural gas liquids trading operations decreased $112 million due primarily to declining prices on ethane and lower ethelyne volumes and prices related to marketing of products of a petrochemical plant acquired by Williams in early 1999, as well as a change in the reporting during 2001 of certain petrochemical and liquid product trading transactions from a gross revenue basis to a net revenue basis. Domestic natural gas liquids revenues decreased $116 million including $78 million from 15 percent lower volumes sold and $38 million due to lower average natural gas liquids sales prices. The 15 percent decrease in volumes sold is due primarily to less favorable processing economics. Additionally, there were $15 million lower revenues related to the petrochemical plant due to a plant turnaround in first quarter 2001 and curtailed production. Domestic gathering revenues increased $11 million due primarily to higher volumes related to recent asset acquisitions in the Gulf Coast area. Costs and operating expenses increased $393 million to $1.6 billion, due primarily to $549 million of costs and operating expenses related to the Canadian operations for the first three quarters of 2001 and $18 million higher domestic general operating and maintenance costs and $13 million related to the new gas compression facility in Venezuela. Partially offsetting these increases were $95 million lower expenses related to decreased 69 ethane prices for the natural gas liquids trading operations, $58 million lower Canadian costs and operating expenses for the comparable periods of 2001 and 2000 due to lower shrink gas replacement costs, $38 million lower domestic shrink gas replacement costs and the effect in 2000 of $12 million of losses associated with certain propane storage transactions. General and administrative expenses increased $7 million, or 6 percent, due primarily to $11 million of general and administrative expenses related to the Canadian operations for the first three quarters of 2001 and higher general and administrative expenses for natural gas liquids trading operations, partially offset by $12 million of reorganization and early retirement costs incurred in 2000. Included in other (income) expense net within segment costs and expenses for 2001 is $13.8 million of impairment charges related to managements 2001 decisions and commitments to sell certain south Texas non regulated gathering and processing assets. The charges represent the impairment of the assets to fair value based on expected proceeds from the sales. These sales closed during first quarter 2002. Also included in other (income) expense net within segment costs and expenses for 2000 is a $12.4 million gain on the sale of certain natural gas liquids contracts. Segment profit decreased $106.1 million, or 38 percent, due primarily to $54 million from lower average per unit domestic natural gas liquids margins and $22 million from decreased domestic natural gas liquids volumes sold, $16 million lower margins from natural gas liquids trading activity, $18 million higher domestic operating and maintenance costs, $17 million lower operating profit from activities at the petrochemical plant as revenues decreased due to plant turnaround and curtailed production without a corresponding decrease in cost, $13.8 million and $12.4 million due to the 2001 impairment charge and the 2000 gain on sale of certain natural gas liquids contracts discussed above and $10 million higher losses from equity investments. Partially offsetting these decreases to segment profit were an $18 million increase from the new Venezuelan gas compression facility which began operations in third quarter 2001, $6 million lower domestic general and administrative expenses, $11 million higher domestic gathering revenues and $12 million of losses associated with certain propane storage transactions during 2000. WILLIAMS ENERGY PARTNERS YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (MILLIONS) Segment revenues........................................... $423.7 $402.5 $373.0 Segment profit............................................. $ 99.3 $101.2 $104.2 On February 20, 2003, Williams announced that it is pursuing a potential sale of its investment in Williams Energy Partners L.P., including its general partner interest. 2002 vs. 2001 WILLIAMS ENERGY PARTNERS revenue increased $21.2 million, or 5 percent, reflecting increased revenues from petroleum products transportation, terminal and other activities. Transportation revenues increased as a result of higher average transportation rates slightly offset by lower volumes. The increase in average transportation rates were due to supply shifts within the Williams Pipe Line system, caused by the temporary capacity reductions of certain refineries, which created longer hauls during the current year. These refinery capacity reductions are not anticipated to recur in 2003. The increase in terminals and other revenues principally reflect increased utilization and higher rates. In addition, 2002 results benefited from the full year impact of acquisitions made during 2001, which include two inland terminals and one marine terminal facility. Costs and operating expenses increased $17 million due primarily to $10 million of higher environmental expense accruals, a full year of operating expenses related to the marine facility and two inland terminals discussed above, and higher third party pipeline lease expenses. Most of the increase in environmental expenses resulted from the completion of state mandated environmental assessments at six terminal facilities 70 on the pipeline system during the current year. These increases were partially offset by lower transportation field expenses principally reflecting maintenance cost reduction measures implemented in the current year. Segment profit decreased $1.9 million, or 2 percent, due to the items discussed above, $5.9 million higher selling, general and administrative expenses and decreased other income of $0.2 million. General and administrative costs increased due to costs incurred during 2002 by Williams Energy Partners relating to the acquisition of Williams Pipe Line, increased allocations from Williams and increased equity based incentive compensation expense. 2001 vs. 2000 Williams Energy Partners revenue increased $29.5 million, or 8 percent, due primarily to higher revenues from the petroleum products transportation activities, the acquisition of a marine terminal facility in September 2000 and higher revenues and rates from the storage of petroleum products at the Gulf Coast marine facilities. Segment profit decreased $3 million, or 3 percent, due primarily to higher operating costs corresponding with the revenue increase discussed above and higher general and administrative expenses. PETROLEUM SERVICES YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (MILLIONS) Segment revenues........................................ $866.0 $1,109.7 $1,456.3 Segment profit.......................................... $ 32.8 $ 145.7 $ 38.9 Petroleum Services continuing operations include the North Pole, Alaska refining operations, retail operations from the 29 Williams Express convenience stores in Alaska, a 3.0845 percent undivided interest in the Trans Alaska Pipeline System (TAPS) acquired in June 2000 and transportation operations. Transportation operations primarily include Williams 32.1 percent interest in Longhorn Partners Pipeline LP (which is not yet operational), and gas liquids blending activities for Williams Pipe Line Company which is owned and part of the Williams Energy Partners segment. Williams has announced that it is pursuing the sale of its operations in Alaska. If a sale is approved and other conditions are met, these operations would be reported as discontinued operations in the future. In addition, 2001 and 2000 include the results of operations through May 2001 of 198 convenience stores in the Midsouth which were sold in May 2001. These operations did not qualify as discontinued operations under previous accounting guidance. 2002 vs. 2001 PETROLEUM SERVICES revenues decreased $243.7 million, or 22 percent, due primarily to $194 million lower convenience store sales and $47 million lower Alaska refining revenues. The $194 million decrease in convenience store sales reflects the absence of $184 million in revenues related to the sale of the 198 convenience stores in May 2001 and an $11 million decrease in revenues related to the retained Alaska convenience stores. The $11 million decrease in revenues of the retained Alaska convenience stores reflects $7 million from a 9 percent decrease in gasoline sales volumes and $4 million from a 6 percent decrease in average gasoline sales prices. The $47 million decrease in refining revenues primarily includes $69 million from 9 percent lower average refined product sales prices, partially offset by $21 million from a 3 percent increase in refined product volumes sold. Costs and operating expenses decreased $228 million, or 23 percent, due primarily to $196 million lower convenience store costs and $32 million lower Alaska refining costs. The $196 million decrease in convenience store costs is due primarily to the absence of $185 million in costs related to the sale of the 198 convenience stores in May 2001 and an $11 million decrease in costs for the retained Alaska convenience stores. The $11 million decrease in costs for the retained Alaska convenience stores reflects $5 million from a 10 percent decrease in average gasoline purchase prices and $6 million from 9 percent lower gasoline sales volumes. The $32 million lower Alaska refining costs is due primarily to $50 million from 8 percent lower average refined 71 product purchase prices, partially offset by $17 million from a 3 percent increase in refined product volumes sold. Other (income) expense net in 2002 includes a total of $18.4 million of impairment charges related to the Alaska refining operations and the Alaska convenience stores. As previously mentioned, Williams has announced its intention to pursue a sale of its operations in Alaska. These impairment charges reflect the excess of the carrying cost of these assets over managements estimate of fair value. Other (income) expense net in 2001 includes the $75.3 million pre tax gain from the sale of the 198 convenience stores and a $12.1 million impairment charge related to an end to end mobile computing systems business. Segment profit decreased $112.9 million, or 77 percent, due primarily to the $81.6 million net unfavorable effect related to the items noted above in other (income) expense net and $14 million lower operating profit from refining operations. In addition, the decrease reflects a 2002 equity loss of $13.8 million from its investment in Longhorn Partners Pipeline LP resulting almost entirely from fourth quarter 2002 adjustments recorded by Longhorn Partners Pipeline LP to expense certain amounts previously capitalized as property costs. 2001 vs. 2000 Petroleum Services revenue decreased $346.6 million, or 24 percent, due primarily to $279 million lower convenience store sales and $49 million lower refining revenues, partially offset by $28 million higher revenues from Williams 3.0845 percent undivided interest in TAPS acquired in late June 2000. The $279 million decrease in convenience store sales is due primarily to a $283 million decrease in revenues related to the sale of the 198 convenience stores in May 2001, slightly offset by higher merchandise sales by the Alaska convenience stores. The $49 million decrease in refining revenues is due to $145 million resulting from 16 percent lower average refined product sales prices, partially offset by $96 million from 12 percent higher refined product volumes sold. Costs and operating expenses decreased $362 million, or 27 percent, due primarily to $278 million lower convenience store costs and $57 million lower refining costs. The $278 million decrease in convenience store costs is due primarily to the $282 million decrease in costs related to the 198 convenience stores which were sold in May 2001, slightly offset by higher merchandise costs by the Alaska convenience stores. The $57 million decrease in refining costs is due primarily to $138 million resulting from 18 percent lower average refined product costs, partially offset by $80 million from a 12 percent increase in refined volumes sold. Included in other (income) expense net within segment costs and expenses for 2001, is a $75.3 million pre tax gain from the sale of the 198 convenience stores. Also included in other (income) expense net within segment costs and expenses in 2001 and 2000 are impairment charges of $12.1 million and $11.9 million, respectively, related to an end to end mobile computing systems business. The impairment charges result from managements decision in 2000 to sell certain of its end to end mobile computing systems and represent the impairment of the assets to fair value based on expected net sales proceeds, as revised. Other (income) expense net within segment costs and expenses in 2000 also included a $7 million write off of a retail software system. Segment profit increased $106.8 million due primarily to $82.1 million net favorable effect related to the items noted above in other (income) expense net, $20 million from Williams interest in TAPS acquired in late June 2000 and $8 million higher operating profit from refining operations. 72 OTHER YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (MILLIONS) Segment revenues............................................ $65.9 $ 80.3 $ 74.4 Segment profit (loss)....................................... $27.9 $(25.7) $(20.2) 2002 vs. 2001 OTHER segment profit in 2002 includes a $58.5 million gain from the September 2002 sale of Williams 27 percent ownership interest in the Lithuanian refinery, pipeline and terminal complex and a $9.5 million decrease in equity losses from the Lithuanian operations for the period. Williams received proceeds of approximately $85 million from the sale of this investment. In addition, Williams sold its $75 million note receivable from the Lithuanian operations at face value. 73 FAIR VALUE OF ENERGY RISK MANAGEMENT AND TRADING ACTIVITIES As more thoroughly described in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, energy and energy related contracts are carried at fair value and, with the exception of certain commodity inventories, are recorded in current and noncurrent energy risk management and trading assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Fair value of energy and energy related contracts is determined based on the nature of the transaction and market in which transactions are executed. Certain transactions are executed in exchange traded or over the counter markets for which quoted prices in active periods exist, while other transactions are executed where quoted market prices are not available or the contracts extend into periods for which quoted market prices are not available. Quoted market prices for varying periods in active markets are readily available for valuing forward contracts, futures contracts, swap agreements and purchase and sales transactions in the commodity markets in which Energy Marketing & Trading and the natural gas liquids trading operations transact. Market data in active periods is also available for interest rate transactions affecting the trading portfolio. For contracts or transactions that extend into periods for which actively quoted prices are not available, Energy Marketing & Trading estimates energy commodity prices in the illiquid periods by incorporating information obtained from commodity prices in actively quoted markets, prices reflected in current transactions and market fundamental analysis. For contracts where quoted market prices are not available, primarily transportation, storage, full requirements, load serving and power tolling contracts, Energy Marketing & Trading estimates fair value using proprietary models and other valuation techniques that reflect the best information available under the circumstances. In situations where Energy Marketing & Trading has received current information from negotiation activities with potential buyers of these contracts, the information is considered in the determination of the fair value of the contract. The valuation techniques used when estimating fair value for energy related contracts incorporate option pricing theory, statistical and simulation analysis, present value concepts incorporating risk from uncertainty of the timing and amount of estimated cash flows and specific contractual terms. The estimates of fair value also assume liquidating the positions in an orderly manner over a reasonable period of time in a transaction between a willing buyer and seller. These valuation techniques utilize factors such as quoted energy commodity market prices, estimates of energy commodity market prices in the absence of quoted market prices, volatility factors underlying the positions, estimated correlation of energy commodity prices, contractual volumes, estimated volumes under option and other arrangements, liquidity of the market in which the contract is transacted, and a risk free market discount rate. Fair value also reflects a risk premium that market participants would consider in their determination of fair value. Regardless of the method for which fair value is determined, the recognized fair value of all contracts also considers the risk of non performance and credit considerations of the counterparty. The estimates of fair value are adjusted as assumptions change or as transactions become closer to settlement and enhanced estimates become available. In some cases, Energy Marketing & Trading enters into price risk management contracts that have forward start dates commencing upon completion of construction and development of assets to be owned and operated by third parties. Until construction commences, revenue recognition and the fair value of these contracts is limited to the amount of any guaranty or similar form of acceptable credit support that encourages the counterparty to perform under the terms of the contract with appropriate consideration for any contractual provisions that provide for contract termination by the counterparty. Information used in determining the significant estimates and assumptions utilized in the determination of fair value of energy related contracts is derived from market fundamental analysis. Interpreting this data requires judgment and Energy Marketing & Trading recognizes that others in the market place might interpret this data differently. It is reasonably possible that different interpretations of this data could result in a different estimation of fair value in periods for which estimates and assumptions are significant components of estimating fair value. In estimating fair value, Energy Marketing & Trading considers how it believes others in the market place would interpret this information in order to further validate that the estimates and assumptions used in estimating fair value provides the best estimate of the amount that active market participants would exchange in an arms length transaction. Once offsetting contracts are entered into to mitigate commodity price risk, the reliance on managements assumptions and estimates utilized in the estimation of the fair value of each contract becomes less significant. However, the assumptions and estimates surrounding counterparty performance and credit are still an integral component in the estimation of fair value 74 for these contracts. Energy Marketing & Trading enhances its valuation techniques, models and significant estimates and assumptions as better information about the markets in which Energy Marketing & Trading transacts becomes available. On October 25, 2002, the EITF, concluded in Issue No. 02 3 to rescind Issue No. 98 10, under which non derivative energy trading contracts were previously marked to market. A substantial portion of the energy marketing and trading activities previously reported on a fair value basis will be reflected under the accrual method of accounting beginning January 1, 2003. In addition, trading inventories will no longer be marked to market but will be reported on a lower of cost or market basis. Upon adoption of this new standard on January 1, 2003 Energy Marketing & Trading and the natural gas liquids trading operations (reported in the Midstream Gas & Liquids segment) will record a charge as a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle. The impact of this change in accounting principle is expected to be a decrease to net income of $750 million to $800 million on an after tax basis. For further discussion on this issue, please refer to Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. METHODS OF ESTIMATING FAIR VALUE Quoted prices in active markets Quoted market prices for varying periods in active markets are readily available for valuing forward contracts, futures contracts, swap agreements and purchase and sales transactions in the commodity markets in which Energy Marketing & Trading and the natural gas liquids trading operations (reported in the Midstream Gas & Liquids segment) transact. These prices reflect the economic and regulatory conditions that currently exist in the market place and are subject to change in the near term due to changes in future market conditions. The availability of quoted market prices in active markets varies between periods and commodities based upon changes in market conditions. Quoted prices and other external factors in less active markets For contracts or transactions extending into periods for which actively quoted prices are not available, Energy Marketing & Trading and the natural gas liquids trading operations estimate energy commodity prices in these illiquid periods by incorporating information about commodity prices in actively quoted markets, quoted prices in less active markets, and other market fundamental analysis. While an active market may not exist for the entire period, quoted prices can generally be obtained for natural gas through 2012, power through 2006, crude and refined products through 2004 and natural gas liquids through 2003. The ability to obtain quoted market prices varies greatly from region to region, and the time periods mentioned above are an estimation of aggregate liquidity. Prices reflected in current transactions executed by Energy Marketing & Trading are used to further validate the estimates of these prices. The ability to validate prices has been limited due to the recent decline in overall market liquidity. Models and other valuation techniques Contracts for which quoted market prices are not available primarily include transportation, storage, full requirements, load serving, transmission, and power tolling contracts (energy related contracts). A description of these contracts is included in Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Energy Marketing & Trading estimates fair value using models and other valuation techniques that reflect the best available information under the circumstances. The valuation techniques incorporate option pricing theory, statistical and simulation analysis, present value concepts incorporating risk from uncertainty of the timing and amount of estimated cash flows and specific contractual terms. Factors utilized in the valuation techniques include quoted energy commodity market prices, estimates of energy commodity market prices in the absence of quoted market prices, the risk free market discount rate, volatility factors underlying the positions, estimated correlation of energy commodity prices, contractual volumes, estimated volumes, liquidity of the market in which the contract is transacted and a risk premium that market participants would consider in their determination of fair value. Although quoted market prices are not available for these energy related contracts 75 themselves, quoted market prices for the underlying energy commodities are a significant component in the valuation of these contracts. Each of the methods discussed above also include counterparty performance and credit consideration in the estimation of fair value. The chart below reflects the fair value of energy risk management and trading contracts for Energy Marketing & Trading and the natural gas liquids trading operations (reported in the Midstream Gas & Liquids segment) by valuation methodology and the period in which the recorded fair value is expected to be realized. Refer to Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements regarding the estimated impact of the Companys January 1, 2003 adoption of EITF Issue No. 02 3 on fair values as reported below. TO BE TO BE TO BE TO BE TO BE REALIZED IN REALIZED IN REALIZED IN REALIZED IN REALIZED IN 1 12 MONTHS 13 36 MONTHS 37 60 MONTHS 61 120 MONTHS 121+ MONTHS TOTAL FAIR (YEAR 1) (YEARS 2 3) (YEARS 4 5) (YEARS 6 10) (YEARS 11+) VALUE VALUATION TECHNIQUE (MILLIONS) Based upon quoted prices in active markets and 12/31/2001 $ 757 $316 $ 345 $ 363 $ 18 $1,799 quoted prices & other 12/31/2002 (37) 413 221 193 37 827 external factors in less liquid markets(1) 2002 Change $ (794) $ 97 $(124) $(170) $ 19 $ (972) Based upon Models & 12/31/2001 $ 231 $ 12 $ (19) $ 50 $188 $ 462 Other Valuation 12/31/2002 (46) 98 108 295 350 805 Techniques(2) 2002 Change $ (277) $ 86 $ 127 $ 245 $162 $ 343 12/31/2001 $ 988 $328 $ 326 $ 413 $206 $2,261 Total 12/31/2002 (83) 511 329 488 387 1,632 2002 Change $(1,071) $183 $ 3 $ 75 $181 $ (629) (1) A significant portion of the value expected to be realized relates to contracts within the California power market. The terms of these agreements provide for the sale of power at fixed prices ranging from $62.50 to $87.00 per megawatt hour at varying volumes through 2010 for up to 700 megawatts per hour, and a unit specific dispatchable fuel conversion service with fixed capacity prices ranging from $117 to $140 per kilowatt year at varying capacities of up to 1,175 megawatts through 2010. (2) Quoted market prices of the underlying commodities are significant factors in estimating the fair value. SIGNIFICANT ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS USED IN THE VALUATION ESTIMATION PROCESS The most significant estimates and assumptions used to estimate the value of energy and energy related contracts that extend beyond liquidly traded time periods include: Estimates of natural gas, power, and refined products market prices in illiquid periods; Estimates of volatility and correlation of natural gas, power and refined products prices; Estimates of risk inherent in estimating cash flows; and Estimates and assumptions regarding counterparty performance and credit considerations. Estimates of natural gas, power, and refined products market prices in illiquid periods Natural gas, power, and refined products prices are the most significant commodity prices impacting the fair value of Energy Marketing & Trading contracts at December 31, 2002. In estimating natural gas, power, and refined products prices during illiquid periods, Energy Marketing & Trading includes factors such as quoted market prices, prices of current market transactions and market fundamental analysis. Market fundamental analysis incorporates the most recent market data from industry publications, regulatory publications, existing and forecasted electricity generation capacity, natural gas reserve data, alternative fuel 76 source availability, weather patterns and other indicative information supporting supply and demand relationships. These estimated market prices are highly dependent upon actively quoted market prices for natural gas, power, and refined products, current economic and regulatory conditions, as well as, information supporting future conditions that would affect the supply and demand relationships. Alternative methods for determining prices in illiquid periods could materially impact managements estimate of fair value. As new information is obtained about market prices during illiquid periods, Energy Marketing & Trading incorporates this information in its estimates of market prices. Such new information includes additional executed transactions extending into these periods. These transactions give insight into the market prices for which market participants are willing to buy or sell in arms length transactions. Estimation of volatility and correlation of natural gas, power, and refined products prices Volatility of natural gas, power, and refined products prices represents a significant assumption in the determination of fair value of contracts that contain optionality and whose fair value is estimated using option pricing models. Correlation of natural gas, power, and refined products prices represents a significant assumption in the determination of fair value of contracts that contain optionality and involve multiple commodities and whose fair value is estimated using option pricing models. Volatility and correlation can be implied from option based market transactions during periods when quoted market prices exist for natural gas and power. Volatility and correlation are estimated in periods during which quoted market prices are not available through quantitative analysis of historical volatility patterns of the commodities, expected future changes in estimated natural gas, power, and refined products prices, and market fundamental analysis. Estimates of volatility and correlation significantly impact the estimation of fair value for all periods in which the contract is valued using option pricing models. Alternative methods for determining volatilities and correlations in illiquid periods could materially impact managements estimate of fair value. Estimates of risk inherent in estimating cash flows Risk inherent in estimating cash flows represents the uncertainty of events occurring in the future which could ultimately affect the realization of cash flows. Energy Marketing & Trading and the natural gas liquids trading operations (reported in the Midstream Gas & Liquids segment) estimate the risk active market participants would include in the price exchanged in an arms length transaction in the estimation of fair value for each contract. Energy Marketing & Trading and the natural gas liquids trading operation estimate risk utilizing the capital asset pricing theory in the estimation of fair value of energy related contracts. The capital asset pricing theory considers that investors require a higher return for contracts perceived to embody higher risk of uncertainty in the market. This risk is most significant in illiquid periods and markets. Factors affecting the estimate of risk include liquidity of the market in which the contract is executed, ability to transact in future periods, existence of similar transactions in the market, uncertainty of timing and amounts of cash flows, and market fundamental analysis. Estimates and assumptions regarding counterparty performance and credit considerations Energy Marketing & Trading and the natural gas liquids trading operations (reported in the Midstream Gas & Liquids segment) includes in its estimate of fair value for all contracts an assessment of the risk of counterparty non performance. Such assessment considers the credit rating of each counterparty as represented by public rating agencies such as Standard & Poors and Moodys Investors Service, the inherent default probabilities within these ratings, the regulatory environment that the contract is subject to, as well as the terms of each individual contract. 77 The gross forward credit exposure from energy trading and price risk management activities for Energy Marketing & Trading and the natural gas liquids trading operations (reported in the Midstream Gas & Liquids segment) as of December 31, 2002 is summarized below. INVESTMENT COUNTERPARTY TYPE GRADE(A) TOTAL (MILLIONS) Gas and electric utilities.................................. $2,326.4 $3,255.1 Energy marketers and traders................................ 2,371.7 3,661.1 Financial Institutions...................................... 1,006.8 1,007.0 Other....................................................... 1,176.4 1,182.4 $6,881.3 9,105.6 Credit reserves............................................. (250.4) Gross credit exposure from energy risk management & trading activities(b)............................................. $8,855.2 Energy Marketing & Trading and the natural gas liquids trading operations (reported in the Midstream Gas & Liquids segment) assess its credit exposure on a net basis when appropriate and contractually allowed. The net forward credit exposure from energy trading and price risk management activities as of December 31, 2002 is summarized as below. INVESTMENT COUNTERPARTY TYPE GRADE(A) TOTAL (MILLIONS) Gas and electric utilities.................................. $1,290.1 $2,648.5 Energy marketers and traders................................ 163.6 183.2 Financial Institutions...................................... 201.1 201.1 Other....................................................... 44.6 50.8 $1,699.4 $3,083.6 Credit reserves............................................. (250.4) Net credit exposure from energy risk management & trading activities(b)............................................. $2,833.2 (a) "Investment Grade" is primarily determined using publicly available credit ratings along with consideration of cash, standby letters of credit, parent company guarantees, and property interests, including oil and gas reserves. Included in "Investment Grade" are counterparties with a minimum Standard & Poors and Moodys Investors Service rating of BBB or Baa3, respectively. (b) One counterparty within the California power market represents greater than ten percent of assets from energy risk management and trading activities and is included in "investment grade." Standard & Poors and Moodys Investors Service do not currently rate this counterparty. However, recent bond issuances by this counterparty have been rated as investment grade by the various rating agencies. This counterparty has been included in the "investment grade" column based upon contractual credit requirements in the event of assignment or novation. Certain of Energy Marketing & Tradings counterparties have experienced significant declines in their financial stability and creditworthiness which may adversely impact their ability to perform under contracts with Energy Marketing & Trading. In 2002, Energy Marketing & Trading closed out trading positions with a number of counterparties and has disputes associated with certain portions of this liquidation. One counterparty has disputed a settlement amount related to the liquidation of a trading position with Energy Marketing & Trading. The amount of settlement is in excess of $100 million payable to Energy Marketing & Trading. The matter is being arbitrated. Credit constraints, declines in market liquidity, and financial instability of market participants are expected to continue and potentially grow in 2003. Continued liquidity 78 and credit constraints of Williams may also significantly impact Energy Marketing & Tradings ability to manage market risk and meet contractual obligations. In addition to credit risk, Energy Marketing & Trading is subject to performance risk of parties with which it has significant contracts such as tolling agreements. Currently, approximately 5,400 megawatts of Energy Marketing & Tradings tolling portfolio are subject to agreements with subsidiaries of the AES Corporation. The ability of Energy Marketing & Trading to realize future estimated fair values may be significantly affected by the ability of such tolling parties to perform as contractually required. Electricity and natural gas markets, in California and elsewhere, continue to be subject to numerous and wide ranging federal and state regulatory proceedings and investigations, as well as civil actions, regarding among other things, market structure, behavior of market participants, market prices, and reporting to trade publications. Energy Marketing & Trading may be liable for refunds and other damages and penalties as a part of these actions. Each of these matters as well as other regulatory and legal matters related to Energy Marketing & Trading are discussed in more detail in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The outcome of these matters could affect the creditworthiness and ability to perform contractual obligations of Energy Marketing & Trading as well as the creditworthiness and ability to perform contractual obligations of other market participants. CHANGES IN FAIR VALUE DURING 2002 The fair value of energy risk management and trading contracts for Energy Marketing & Trading and the natural gas liquids trading operations (reported in the Midstream Gas & Liquids segment) decreased $629 million, or 28 percent, during 2002. The following table reflects the changes in fair value between December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2002. (MILLIONS) FAIR VALUE OF CONTRACTS OUTSTANDING AT DECEMBER 31, 2001.... $2,261 Recognized losses included in the fair value of contracts outstanding at December 31, 2001 expected to be realized during the period(1).......................... 32 Initial recorded value of new or amended contracts entered into during the period................................. 155 Changes in fair value attributable to changes in valuation techniques............................................. (20) Other changes in fair value of contracts(2)............... (796) FAIR VALUE OF CONTRACTS OUTSTANDING AT DECEMBER 31, 2002.... $1,632 (1) This category includes certain balance sheet reclassifications made in 2002 that did not impact 2002 earnings. (2) This category includes changes in the fair market value of contracts outstanding as a result of various market movements (including changes in market prices, market volatility, and market liquidity) and changes in the net balance of option premiums paid and received. Option premiums paid and received are included in the fair value of contracts outstanding during any given period as they are a portion of the overall energy trading portfolio. Option premiums paid result in an initial increase in the fair value of contracts outstanding and a decrease in cash; premiums received result in an initial decrease in the fair value of contracts outstanding and an increase in cash. The underlying value of the options associated with the premium payments are also included in the fair value of contracts outstanding. Changes in fair value during 2002 include the realization of cash flows on contracts outstanding at December 31, 2001 that were expected to be realized during 2002. These amounts may have differed from the values that were actually realized during 2002 due to changes in market prices, the creditworthiness of counterparties, and other factors that occurred during 2002 prior to the realization of those cash flows. During 2002, Energy Marketing & Trading recognized revenues resulting from the execution of new long term contracts providing for energy price risk management services to customers. See Energy Marketing & Tradings 2002 Results of Operations for a discussion of the type of contracts executed during the year. The 79 fair value of new contracts at the time they are executed reflect the prices negotiated in long term contracts which includes the premium Energy Marketing & Trading receives for managing the energy price risk of its customers. Additionally, as further discussed in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Energy Marketing & Trading does not recognize revenue on contracts until all requirements for revenue recognition have been achieved. As a result, the fair value of these contracts at the time they were executed is likely to differ from the fair value of the contracts at the time they were initially recognized in the financial statements due to changes in market prices and other factors that may have occurred during the intervening period. Energy Marketing & Trading and the natural gas liquids trading operations (reported in the Midstream Gas & Liquids segment) continuously evaluate the valuation techniques and models used in estimating fair value and modify and implement new valuation techniques based upon emerging financial theory in order to provide a better estimate of fair value. Changes attributable to market movements reflect the change in fair value of contracts resulting from changes in quoted market prices of commodities, interest rates, volatility and correlation of commodity prices. This also includes improvements in the estimates and assumptions that Energy Marketing & Trading and the natural gas liquids trading operations (reported in the Midstream Gas & Liquids segment) use in estimating fair value based upon new information and data available in the marketplace. 80 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY LIQUIDITY Williams liquidity comes from both internal and external sources. Certain of those sources are available to Williams (the parent) and others are available to certain of its subsidiaries. Williams sources of liquidity consist of the following: Cash equivalent investments at the corporate level of $1.3 billion at December 31, 2002, as compared to $1.1 billion at December 31, 2001. Cash and cash equivalent investments of various international and domestic entities other than Williams Energy Partners of $354 million at December 31, 2002 as compared to $163 million at December 31, 2001. Cash generated from operations and the future sales of certain assets. $463 million available under Williams revolving credit facility at December 31, 2002, as compared to $700 million at December 31, 2001. This credit facility is available to the extent that it is not used to satisfy the financial ratios and other covenants under certain credit agreements. As discussed in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the borrowing capacity under this facility will reduce as assets are sold. $3 million remaining at December 31, 2002, under a new $400 million secured short term letter of credit facility obtained in third quarter 2002. In April 2002, Williams filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission to enable it to issue up to $3 billion of a variety of debt and equity securities. This registration statement was declared effective June 26, 2002. Because of Williams debt rating and loan covenant restrictions, it is unlikely that Williams would be able to issue securities under the shelf registration statement in the near term. In addition, there are outstanding registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for Williams wholly owned subsidiaries: Northwest Pipeline, Texas Gas Transmission and Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line. As of March 17, 2003, approximately $450 million of shelf availability remains under these outstanding registration statements and may be used to issue a variety of debt securities. Interest rates, market conditions, and industry conditions will affect amounts raised, if any, in the capital markets. On March 4, 2003, Northwest Pipeline Corporation, a subsidiary of Williams, completed an offering of $175 million of 8.125 percent senior notes due 2010 to certain institutional investors. The offering is exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933. The $450 million of shelf availability mentioned above is not affected by this offering. Williams expects to fund capital and investment expenditures, debt payments and working capital requirements through (1) cash on hand, (2) cash generated from operations, (3) the sale of assets, (4) issuance of debt by certain subsidiaries and or (5) amounts available under Williams revolving credit facility. As discussed in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Williams Production RMT Company (RMT), a wholly owned subsidiary, entered into a $900 million Credit Agreement (RMT note payable) dated as of July 31, 2002, with certain lenders including a subsidiary of Lehman Brothers, Inc., a related party to Williams. The RMT Note Payable is secured by substantially all of the assets of RMT and the capital stock of Williams Production Holdings LLC (parent of RMT), RMT and certain RMT subsidiaries. It is also guaranteed by Williams, Williams Production Holdings LLC (Holdings) and certain RMT subsidiaries. The assets of RMT are comprised primarily of the assets of the former Barrett Resources Corporation acquired in 2001, which were primarily natural gas properties in the Rocky Mountain region. Within 75 days of a parent liquidity event, Williams must sell RMT. Under the terms of the RMT Credit Agreements, Williams must provide liquidity projections on a weekly basis until the maturity date. Each projection covers a period extending 12 months from the report date. One of the parent liquidity provisions requires that Williams maintain actual and projected liquidity (a) at any time from the closing date (July 31, 2002) through the 81 180th day thereafter (January 27, 2003), of $600 million; (b) at any time thereafter through and including the maturity date, of $750 million; and (c) for liquidity projections provided during the term of the loan, projected liquidity after the maturity date, of $200 million. The loan matures on July 25, 2003. Outlook On February 20, 2003, Williams announced that it intended to sell an additional $2.25 billion over those previously announced in assets, properties and investments. To realize this level of proceeds, Williams announced that it was pursuing the sales of its general partnership interest and limited partner investments in Williams Energy Partners, its 6,000 mile Texas Gas pipeline system and targeted assets in the Exploration & Production and Midstream Gas & Liquids segments. Based on the Companys forecast of cash flows and liquidity, Williams believes that it has the financial resources and liquidity to meet future cash requirements and satisfy current lending covenants through the first quarter of 2004. Included in this forecast are expected proceeds, net of related debt, totaling nearly $4 billion from the sale of assets. Including periods through first quarter 2004, the Company has scheduled debt retirements (which includes certain contractual fees and deferred interest associated with an underlying debt) of approximately $3.8 billion. Realization of the proceeds from forecasted assets sales is a significant factor for the Company to satisfy its loan covenant which requires minimum levels of parent liquidity and to satisfy current scheduled debt maturities. Credit Ratings At December 31, 2001, Williams maintained certain preferred interest and debt obligations that contained provisions requiring accelerated payment of the related obligation or liquidation of the related assets in the event of specified declines in Williams senior unsecured long term credit ratings assigned by Moodys Investors Service and Standard & Poors (rating agencies). Obligations subject to these "ratings triggers" totaled $816 million at December 31, 2001. During the first quarter of 2002, Williams negotiated changes to certain of the agreements, which eliminated the exposure to the "ratings trigger" clauses incorporated in the agreements. Negotiations for one of the agreements resulted in Williams agreeing to redeem a $560 million preferred interest over the next year in equal quarterly installments (see Note 12). The obligations subject to "ratings triggers" were reduced to $182 million at March 31, 2002. As a result of the credit rating downgrades to below investment grade in July 2002, Williams redeemed $135 million of preferred interests on August 1, 2002 and repaid a $47 million loan in August 2002, thereby eliminating the remaining $182 million exposure. Williams energy risk management and trading business also relied upon the investment grade rating of Williams senior unsecured long term debt to satisfy credit support requirements of many counterparties. As a result of the credit rating downgrades to below investment grade, Energy Marketing & Tradings participation in energy risk management and trading activities requires alternate credit support under certain existing agreements. In addition, Williams is required to fund margin requirements pursuant to industry standard derivative agreements with cash, letters of credit or other negotiable instruments. As a result of Williams credit downgrade to non investment grade during 2002, Williams is effectively required to post margins of 100 percent or more on forward positions which result in a loss. Any future liquidity requirements related to these instruments will be driven by changes in the value of such instruments as a result of changes in price, volatility, etc. At December 31, 2002, Williams has been assigned the following credit ratings on its senior unsecured long term debt, which are considered to be below investment grade: Moodys Investors Service.................................. Caa1 (negative outlook) Standard & Poors.......................................... B (negative watch) 82 Off Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements and Guarantees of Debt or Other Commitments to Third Parties At December 31, 2001, Williams had operating lease agreements with special purpose entities (SPEs). The lease agreements relate to certain Williams travel center stores (included in discontinued operations), offshore oil and gas pipelines and an onshore gas processing plant. As a result of changes to the agreements in conjunction with the secured financing facilities completed in July 2002, the agreements no longer qualified for operating lease treatment. The operating leases were recorded as capital leases within long term debt beginning in July 2002, however the travel center lease is reported in liabilities of discontinued operations and was repaid in March 2003 pursuant to the travel centers sale. Williams had agreements to sell, on an ongoing basis, certain of its accounts receivable to qualified special purpose entities. On July 25, 2002, these agreements expired and were not renewed. Williams provides a guarantee of approximately $126.9 million towards project financing of energy assets owned and operated by Discovery Producer Services LLC in which Williams owns an interest of 50 percent. This obligation is not consolidated in Williams balance sheet as Williams does not maintain a controlling interest in the entity and therefore follows equity accounting for its interest. Performance under the guarantee generally would occur upon a failure of payment by the financed entity or certain events of default related to the guarantor. These events of default primarily relate to bankruptcy and or insolvency of the guarantor. At December 31, 2002, there were no events of default by the guarantors or delinquent payments by the financed entity with respect to the project financings. The guarantee expires at the end of 2003. Williams has provided guarantees in the event of nonpayment by WCG on certain lease performance obligations of WCG that extend through 2042 and have a maximum potential exposure of approximately $53 million. Williams exposure declines systematically throughout the remaining term of WCGs obligations. The carrying value of these guarantees was $48 million at December 31, 2002. In addition to these guarantees, Williams has issued guarantees and other similar arrangements with off balance sheet risk as discussed under Guarantees in Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. WCG At December 31, 2001, Williams had financial exposure from WCG of $375 million of receivables and $2.21 billion of guarantees and payment obligations. Receivables included a $106 million deferred payment for services provided to WCG prior to the spinoff and $269 million from the long term lease to WCG of the Technology Center building and three aircraft. The $2.21 billion of guarantees and payment obligations included the indirect credit support for $1.4 billion of WCGs Note Trust Notes and the guarantee of WCGs obligations under the asset defeasance program (ADP) transaction (see Note 2). During 2002, Williams acquired all of the WCG Note Trust Notes by exchanging $1.4 billion of Williams Senior Unsecured 9.25 percent Notes due March 2004. WCG was indirectly obligated to reimburse Williams for any payments Williams is required to make in connection with the WCG Note Trust Notes. On March 29, 2002, Williams funded the purchase price of $754 million related to WCGs March 8, 2002 exercise of its option to purchase the covered network assets under the ADP transaction. Williams then became entitled to an unsecured claim from WCG for the same amount. On April 22, 2002, WCG filed for bankruptcy protection under Chapter 11 of the US Bankruptcy Code. The Chapter 11 Plan of Reorganization (Plan) was confirmed by the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York on September 30, 2002. On October 15, 2002, WCG consummated its Plan. The Plan included the sale, by Williams to Leucadia National Corporation (Leucadia) for $180 million in cash of Williams claims against WCG for the WCG Note Trust Notes, the funding of the WCG Purchase option for the covered network assets under the ADP transaction and the deferred payment for services. It also included the sale by Williams to WCG of the Technology Center building for (a) a seven and one half year promissory note in the principal amount of $100 million with interest at 7 percent (Long Term Note) and (b) a four year promissory note (which may be prepaid without penalty) with face amount of $74.4 million 83 and an original principal amount of $44.8 million (Short Term Note) both of which are secured by a mortgage on the Technology Center and certain other collateral. At December 31, 2002, Williams had a $121.5 million receivable (original principal amount of $144.8 million) from WCG for the promissory notes relating to the sale of the Technology Center. The notes were initially recorded at fair value based on contractual cash flows and an estimated discount rate considering the creditworthiness of WCG, the amount and timing of the cash flows and Williams security in the Technology Center and certain other collateral. The fourth quarter 2002 sale of certain of Williams claims against WCG to Leucadia resulted in the elimination of $2.26 billion of receivables, and the associated $2.08 billion allowance, from Williams Consolidated Balance Sheet. Williams continues to guarantee approximately $53 million, previously discussed of WCG obligation under certain contractual commitments. For more information regarding Williams and WCG, see WCG in Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. OPERATING ACTIVITIES Cash provided (used) by continuing operating activities was: 2002 $(800) million; 2001 $1.7 billion; and 2000 $324 million. The 2002 $633.4 million increase in margin deposits is due to higher deposits required by counterparties relating to trading activities at Energy Marketing & Trading. The decrease in accounts payable for 2002 is primarily due to decreased levels of trading activity at Energy Marketing & Trading. The decrease in receivables which provides cash in 2002 relates to the decrease in trading activities at Energy Marketing & Trading offset by the expiration in 2002 of the various sale of receivables programs which served to delay the realization of cash related to receivables. The decrease in 2002 of accrued liabilities is due to lower employee costs and decreased deposits received from customers relating to energy risk management and trading and hedging activities (see Note 10). In March 2002, WCG exercised its option to purchase certain network assets under the ADP transaction for which Williams provided a guarantee of WCGs obligations. On March 29, 2002, Williams, as guarantor under the agreement, paid $754 million related to WCGs purchase of these network assets (see WCG section for further discussion). In 2002, Williams recorded in continuing operations additional pre tax charges of $268.7 million related to the settlement of these receivables and claims (see Note 2). In 2001, Williams had recorded a $188 million charge related to estimated recovery of amounts from WCG. During 2002, Williams recorded approximately $455 million in provisions for losses on property and other assets. Those provisions consisted primarily of impairments of Canadian assets within Midstream Gas & Liquids and impairments of goodwill and loss accruals related to power generating turbines at Energy Marketing & Trading. The net gain on disposition of assets in 2002 primarily relates to the sales of Exploration & Production properties (see Note 4) and Williams investment in AB Mazeikiu Nafta (see Note 3). The amortization of deferred set up fee and fixed rate interest on the RMT note payable relates to amounts recognized in the income statement as interest expense, but generally will not be paid until maturity. During 2002, Williams was required to provide $108 million of cash collateral in support of surety bonds underwritten by various insurance companies and provide cash collateral in support of letters of credit due to downgrades by credit rating agencies. During 2002, Williams also made $78 million in contributions to its qualified pension plans. FINANCING ACTIVITIES Net cash provided by financing activities of continuing operations was: 2002 $16.6 million; 2001 $2.0 billion; and 2000 $2.0 billion. Long term debt proceeds, net of principal payments, were $1.4 billion, $1.9 billion, and $283 million, during 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. Notes payable payments, net of notes payable proceeds, were $1.1 billion and $801 million, during 2002 and 2001, respectively. Notes payable proceeds, net of notes payable payments were $1.5 billion in 2000. The increase in net borrowings from 84 2001 per the Consolidated Balance Sheet also reflects the assumption of the $1.4 billion of WCG notes. The increase in net borrowings during 2001 and 2000 reflects borrowings to fund capital expenditures, investments and acquisitions of businesses. On January 14, 2002, Williams completed the sale of 44 million publicly traded units, more commonly known as FELINE PACS, that include a senior debt security and an equity purchase contract. The $1.1 billion of debt has a term of five years, and the equity purchase contract will require the company to deliver Williams common stock to holders after three years based on a previously agreed rate. Net proceeds from this issuance were approximately $1.1 billion. The FELINE PACS were issued as part of Williams plan to strengthen its balance sheet and maintain its investment grade rating. On March 19, 2002, Williams issued $850 million of 30 year notes with an interest rate of 8.75 percent and $650 million of 10 year notes with an interest rate of 8.125 percent. The proceeds were used to repay outstanding commercial paper, provide working capital and for general corporate purposes. In May 2002, Energy Marketing & Trading entered into an agreement which transferred the rights to certain receivables, along with risks associated with that collection, in exchange for cash. Due to the structure of the agreement, Energy Marketing & Trading accounted for this transaction as debt collateralized by the claims. The $79 million of debt is classified as current. As discussed in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and under the Liquidity heading of Managements Discussion and Analysis, RMT entered into a $900 million credit agreement dated as of July 31, 2002. For a discussion of other borrowings and repayments in 2002, see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The proceeds from issuance of Williams common stock in 2001 reflect $1.3 billion in net proceeds from approximately 38 million shares of common stock issued by Williams in January 2001 in a public offering at $36.125 per share. Additionally, the proceeds from issuance of Williams common stock in 2002, 2001 and 2000 reflect exercise of stock options under the plans providing for common stock based awards to employees and to non employee directors. The proceeds from issuance of preferred stock in 2002 reflect $271 million in net proceeds for the issuance of approximately 1.5 million shares of 9.875 percent cumulative convertible preferred stock for $275 million, which were issued concurrent with its sale of Kern River to MEHC. Dividends on the preferred stock are payable quarterly (see Note 13). Dividends paid on common stock decreased $110 million from 2001 levels as Williams board of directors reduced the quarterly dividend on common stock, beginning in July 2002, from $.20 per share to $.01 per share. Additionally, one of the new covenants within the credit agreements limits the common stock dividends paid by Williams in any quarter to not more than $6.25 million. Dividends on common stock in 2001 increased $75.2 million from 2000 reflecting an increase in the number of shares outstanding and an increase in the per share dividends. The number of shares increased due primarily to the 38 million shares issued in January 2001 and the 29.6 million shares issued in the Barrett acquisition. Third quarter 2001 and fourth quarter 2001 dividends increased to 18 cents per share and 20 cents per share, respectively, up from the quarterly dividend of 15 cents per share in 2000. In May 2002, Williams Energy Partners L.P., a partially owned and consolidated entity, issued approximately 8 million common units at $37.15 per unit resulting in approximately $279 million of net proceeds. Proceeds from sale of limited partners units of consolidated partnership in 2001 reflect an initial public offering of Williams Energy Partners L.P., then a wholly owned partnership, of approximately 4.6 million common units at $21.50 per unit for net proceeds of approximately $92 million. In December 2001, Williams received net proceeds of $95.3 million from sale of a non controlling preferred interest in Piceance Production Holdings LLC (Piceance) to an outside investor (see Note 12). During 2000, Williams received net proceeds totaling $546.8 million from the sale of a preferred return interest in Snow Goose Associates, L.L.C. (Snow Goose) to an outside investor (see Note 12). During 2002, 85 changes to these limited liability company member interests and interests in Castle Associates L.P. (Castle) required classification of these outside investor interests as debt. The changes to the Snow Goose structure also included the repayment of the investors preferred interest in installments. During 2002, approximately $558 million was repaid related to these interests and are included in the payments of long term debt. In third quarter 2002, the downgrade of Williams senior unsecured rating below BB by Standard & Poors, or Ba1 by Moodys Investors Service, resulted in the early retirement of an outside investors preferred ownership interest for $135 million (see Note 12). In April 2001, Williams redeemed the Williams obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of Trust holding only Williams indentures for $194 million. Proceeds from the sale of the Ferrellgas senior common units held by Williams were used for this redemption. Long term debt, including long term debt due within one year: at December 31, 2002 was $13.0 billion compared with $9.7 billion at December 31, 2001, and $7.7 billion at December 31, 2000. At December 31, 2001, $844 million of current debt obligations were classified as noncurrent obligations based on Williams intent and ability to refinance on a long term basis. The 2002 increase in long term debt is due primarily to the $1.1 billion related to the FELINE PACS issuance discussed above, the combined $1.5 billion issued on March 19, 2002 and the assumption of the $1.4 billion of WCG Note Trust notes. Williams long term debt to debt plus equity ratio (excluding debt of discontinued operations) was 70.2 percent at December 31, 2002, compared to 59.0 percent and 52.5 percent at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. If short term notes payable and long term debt due within one year are included in the calculations, these ratios would be 73.4 percent at December 31, 2002 compared to 64.8 percent and 62.2 percent at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Additionally, the long term debt to debt plus equity ratio as calculated for covenants under certain debt agreements was 65.2 percent at December 31, 2002 as compared to 61.5 percent at December 31, 2001. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of this and other covenants. Significant items reflected as discontinued operations within financing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows include the cash provided by financing activities in 2001, primarily reflecting the issuance of $1.4 billion of WCG Note Trust Notes for which Williams provided indirect credit support (see Note 2). WCG retained all of the proceeds from this issuance. In 2000, WCG issued $1 billion in long term debt obligations consisting of $575 million in 11.7 percent notes due 2008 and $425 million in 11.875 percent notes due 2010. During 2000, WCG received net proceeds of approximately $240.5 million from the issuance of five million shares of 6.75 percent redeemable cumulative preferred stock. INVESTING ACTIVITIES Net cash provided (used) by investing activities of continuing operations was: 2002 $1.3 billion; 2001 $(3.3) billion; and 2000 $(2.0) billion. Capital expenditures of Energy Marketing & Trading, primarily to purchase power generating turbines, were $136 million in 2002, $104 million in 2001 and $63 million in 2000. Capital expenditures of Gas Pipeline, primarily to expand deliverability into the east and west coast markets and upgrade current facilities, were $697 million in 2002, $632 million in $2001, and $448 million in 2000. Capital expenditures for Midstream Gas & Liquids, primarily to acquire, expand and modernize gathering and processing facilities and terminals, were $497 million in 2002, $560 million in 2001, and $326 million in 2000. Capital expenditures for Exploration & Production, primarily for continued development of the companys natural gas reserves base through the drilling of wells, were $380 million in 2002, $218 million in 2001, and $70 million in 2000. Capital expenditures for Williams Energy Partners, primarily to expand and upgrade existing facilities, increase storage and develop pipeline connections to new supply sources, were $40 million in 2002, $35 million in 2001, and $73 million in 2000. Capital expenditures for Petroleum Services, were $18 million in 2002, $13 million in 2001, and $42 million in 2000. Budgeted capital expenditures and investments for continuing operations for 2003 are estimated to be approximately $900 million to $1.05 billion. The acquisition of businesses in 2001 reflects the June 11, 2001, acquisition by Williams of 50 percent of Barretts outstanding common stock in a cash tender offer of $73 per share for a total of approximately $1.2 billion. On August 2, 2001, Williams completed the acquisition of Barrett by issuing 29.6 million shares 86 of Williams common stock in exchange for the remaining Barrett shares. In 2000, Williams acquired various energy related operations in Canada for approximately $540 million. Included in the purchase were interests in several NGL extraction and fractionation plants, NGL transportation pipeline and storage facilities, and a natural gas processing plant. The purchase of investments/advances to affiliates in 2002 includes approximately $234 million towards the development of the Gulfstream joint venture project, a Williams equity investment. In 2001, Williams contributed $437 million toward the development of Williams joint interest in the Gulfstream project. For 2002, net cash proceeds from asset dispositions, the sales of businesses and disposition of investments include the following: $1.15 billion related to the sale of Mid American and Seminole Pipeline. $464 million related to the sale of Kern River. $380 million related to the sale of Central. $326 million from the sale of properties in Jonah Field and the Anadarko Basin. $229 million related to the sale of the Cove Point LNG facility. $173 million related to the sale of Williams interest in Alliance Pipeline. $85 million related to the sale of Williams interest in the Lithuanian refinery. $77 million related to the sale of Kansas Hugoton. $12 million from the sale of the general partner interest in Northern Border Partners. The proceeds received from disposition of investments and other assets in 2001 reflects Williams sale of the Ferrellgas senior common units to an affiliate of Ferrellgas for proceeds of $199 million in April 2001 and the sale of certain convenience stores for approximately $150 million in May 2001. In 2001, the purchase of assets subsequently leased to seller reflects Williams purchase of the Williams Technology Center, other ancillary assets and three corporate aircraft for $276 million. As discussed previously, Williams received $180 million in proceeds from the sale of claims against WCG to Leucadia in fourth quarter 2002. Significant items reflected as discontinued operations within investing activities of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows include the following: Capital expenditures of WCG and network and purchase of investments by WCG, totaled 1.5 billion in 2001 and 4.9 billion in 2000. WCG also had proceeds from sales of investments of $2.9 billion in 2000. Capital expenditures of Kern River, primarily for expansion of its interstate natural gas pipeline system, were $134 million in 2001 and $5 million in 2000. 87 COMMITMENTS The table below summarizes some of the more significant contractual obligations and commitments by period. 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 THEREAFTER TOTAL (MILLIONS) Notes payable...................... $ 935(1) $ $ $ $ $ $ 935 Long term debt, including current portion.......................... 1,083 1,832 1,364(2) 1,057 855 6,788 12,979 Debt of discontinued operations.... 69(3) 8 77 Operating leases................... 34 22 18 11 9 28 122 Fuel conversion and other service contracts(4)..................... 420 443 446 449 452 5,517 7,727 Total.............................. $2,541 $2,297 $1,828 $1,517 $1,316 $12,341 $21,840 (1) An additional $228 million will be paid at maturity of the RMT note payable related to a deferred set up fee and deferred interest. (2) Includes $1.1 billion of 6.5 percent notes, payable 2007 subject to remarketing in 2004 (FELINE PACS). If the remarketing is unsuccessful in 2004 and a second remarketing in February 2005 is unsuccessful as defined in the offering document of the FELINE PACS, then Williams could exercise its right to foreclose on the notes in order to satisfy the obligation of the holders of the equity forward contracts requiring the holder to purchase Williams common stock. (3) $67 million was paid in 2003 related to the sale of the travel centers. (4) Energy Marketing & Trading has entered into certain contracts giving Williams the right to receive fuel conversion services as well as certain other services associated with electric generation facilities that are either currently in operation or are to be constructed at various locations throughout the continental United States. These contracts are included at fair value within energy risk management and trading assets and liabilities. Additionally, at December 31, 2002, commitments for construction and acquisition of property, plant and equipment are approximately $448 million. At December 31, 2002, commitments for additional investment in Gulfstream Natural Gas System, LLC, and certain international cost investments are $49 million. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recently issued accounting standards. EFFECTS OF INFLATION Williams cost increases in recent years have benefited from relatively low inflation rates during that time. Approximately 43 percent of Williams gross property, plant and equipment is at Gas Pipeline and approximately 57 percent is at other operating units. Gas Pipeline is subject to regulation, which limits recovery to historical cost. While amounts in excess of historical cost are not recoverable under current FERC practices, Williams believes it will be allowed to recover and earn a return based on increased actual cost incurred to replace existing assets. Cost based regulation along with competition and other market factors may limit the ability to recover such increased costs. For the other operating units, operating costs are influenced to a greater extent by specific price changes in oil and gas and related commodities than by changes in general inflation. Crude, refined product, natural gas, natural gas liquids and power prices are particularly sensitive to OPEC production levels and or the market perceptions concerning the supply and demand balance in the near future. 88 ENVIRONMENTAL Williams is a participant in certain environmental activities in various stages involving assessment studies, cleanup operations and or remedial processes. The sites, some of which are not currently owned by Williams (see Note 16 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), are being monitored by Williams, other potentially responsible parties, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or other governmental authorities in a coordinated effort. In addition, Williams maintains an active monitoring program for its continued remediation and cleanup of certain sites connected with its refined products pipeline activities. Williams is jointly and severally liable along with unrelated third parties in some of these activities and solely responsible in others. Current estimates of the most likely costs of such cleanup activities are approximately $87 million, all of which is accrued at December 31, 2002. Williams expects to seek recovery of approximately $31 million of the accrued costs through future natural gas transmission rates. Williams will fund these costs from operations and or available bank credit facilities. Estimates of the most likely costs of cleanup are generally based on completed assessment studies, preliminary results of studies or our experience with other similar cleanup operations. At December 31, 2002, certain assessment studies were still in process for which the ultimate outcome may yield significantly different estimates of most likely costs. Therefore, the actual costs incurred will depend on the final amount, type and extent of contamination discovered at these sites, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA or other governmental authorities, and other factors. Williams is subject to the federal Clean Air Act and to the federal Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 which require the EPA to issue new regulations. Williams is also subject to regulation at the state and local level. In September 1998, the EPA promulgated rules designed to mitigate the migration of ground level ozone in certain states. Williams estimates that capital expenditures necessary to install emission control devices over the next five years to comply with rules will be between $306 million and $344 million. The actual costs incurred will depend on the final implementation plans developed by each state to comply with these regulations. In December 1999, standards promulgated by the EPA for tailpipe emissions and the content of sulfur in gasoline were announced. Williams estimates that capital expenditures necessary to bring its refinery into compliance over the next five years will be approximately $51 million. The actual costs incurred will depend on the final implementation plans. In addition to the above mentioned capital expenditures pertaining to the Clean Air Act and amendments, estimated future capital expenditures as of December 31, 2002, for various compliance issues across the company are approximately $19 million. On July 2, 2001, the EPA issued an information request asking for information on oil releases and discharges in any amount from Williams pipelines, pipeline systems, and pipeline facilities used in the movement of oil or petroleum products, during the period July 1, 1998 through July 2, 2001. In November 2001, Williams furnished its response. 89 ITEM 7A. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK INTEREST RATE RISK Williams current interest rate risk exposure is related primarily to its debt portfolio and its energy risk management and trading portfolio. Williams interest rate risk exposure resulting from its debt portfolio is influenced by short term rates, primarily LIBOR based borrowings from commercial banks and long term U.S. Treasury rates. To mitigate the impact of fluctuations in interest rates, Williams targets to maintain a significant portion of its debt portfolio in fixed rate debt. Williams has also utilized interest rate swaps to change the ratio of its fixed and variable rate debt portfolio based on managements assessment of future interest rates, volatility of the yield curve and Williams ability to access the capital markets in a timely manner. Williams periodically enters into interest rate forward contracts to establish an effective borrowing rate for anticipated long term debt issuances. The maturity of Williams long term debt portfolio is partially influenced by the expected life of its operating assets. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, the amount of Williams fixed and variable rate debt was at targeted levels. Williams has historically maintained an investment grade credit rating as one aspect of managing its interest rate risk. However, in July 2002, Moodys Investors Service and Standard & Poors downgraded their credit ratings of Williams long term unsecured debt to below investment grade. Williams also has interest rate risk in long dated energy related contracts included in its energy risk management and trading portfolio. The value of these transactions can fluctuate daily based on movements in the underlying interest rate curves used to assign value to the transactions. Williams strives to mitigate the associated interest rate risk from the value of these transactions by fixing the underlying interest rate inherent in the energy risk management and trading portfolio. During 2001, Williams began actively managing this exposure as a component of its targeted levels of fixed to floating obligations. Williams uses both floating to fixed interest rate swaps and other derivative transactions to manage this variable rate exposure. Due to Williams credit situation at December 31, 2002, only $300 million notional of interest rate swaps were outstanding. The tables on the following page provide information as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, about Williams interest rate risk sensitive instruments. For notes payable and long term debt the table presents principal cash flows and weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. For interest rate swaps, the table presents notional amounts and weighted average interest rates by contractual maturity dates. Notional amounts are used to calculate the contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the interest rate swaps. 90 FAIR VALUE DECEMBER 31, 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 THEREAFTER TOTAL 2002 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Notes payable................ $ 935 $ $ $ $ $ $ 935 $1,002 Interest rate................ 5.8%(1) Long term debt, including current portion: Fixed rate................. $ 328 $1,741 $1,355 $969 $695 $6,648 $11,736 $8,214 Interest rate.............. 7.8% 7.7% 7.6% 7.8% 7.9% 8.2% Variable rate.............. $ 755 $ 91 $ 9 $ 88 $160 $ $ 1,103 $1,103 Interest rate(2) Capital leases............. $ $ $ 140 $ $ $ $ 140 $ 140 Lease rate................. 6.4% FAIR VALUE DECEMBER 31, 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 THEREAFTER TOTAL 2001 (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS) Notes payable................ $1,425 $ $ $ $ $ $ 1,425 $1,425 Interest rate................ 3.3% Long term debt, including current portion: Fixed rate................. $ 796 $ 292 $ 581 $240 $954 $5,282 $ 8,145 $8,300 Interest rate.............. 7.2% 7.3% 7.3% 7.3% 7.4% 7.6% Variable rate.............. $ 204 $ 402 $ 941 $ $ $ $ 1,547 $1,547 Interest rate(2) Interest rate swaps(3) (1) This is the variable rate portion related to these notes which is based on the Eurodollar rate plus 4 percent per annum. An additional 14 percent fixed rate, compounded quarterly, accrues to the RMT note payable (see Note 11). (2) 2002 Weighted average interest rate through 2006 is LIBOR plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.125 percent to 5.0 percent, except $178 million at Eurodollar plus 4.25 percent; weighted average interest rate in 2007 is Eurodollar plus 4.25 percent. 2001 Weighted average interest rates is LIBOR plus one percent for all years. (3) The interest rate swaps at December 31, 2001 are reflected at fair value within energy risk management and trading assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as these swaps are entered into to mitigate the interest rate risk inherent in the energy risk management and trading portfolio. Notional amounts total approximately $1 billion at December 31, 2001. COMMODITY PRICE RISK TRADING Energy Marketing & Trading and the natural gas liquids trading operations (reported in the Midstream Gas & Liquids segment) have trading operations that incur commodity price risk as a consequence of providing price risk management services to third party customers. The most significant exposure to commodity price risk is associated with the natural gas and electricity markets in the United States. This exposure is primarily within the portfolio of transportation, storage, full requirements, load serving, transmission, and power tolling contracts. Energy Marketing & Trading and the natural gas liquids trading operations (reported in the Midstream Gas & Liquids segment) also has commodity price risk exposure to crude oil, refined products, electricity and natural gas in the United States and Europe, natural gas liquids markets in the United States and the natural gas markets in Canada through other energy contracts such as forward, futures, 91 options, swaps, and purchase and sale contracts. These energy and energy related contracts are valued at fair value and unrealized gains and losses from changes in fair value are recognized in income (see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements regarding change in accounting principle due to adoption of EITF No. 02 3 effective January 1, 2003). These energy and energy related contracts are subject to risk from changes in energy commodity market prices, volatility and correlation of those commodity prices, the portfolio position of its contracts, the liquidity of the market in which the contract is transacted and changes in interest rates. Energy Marketing & Trading and the natural gas liquids trading operations actively seek to diversify its portfolio in managing the commodity price risk in the transactions that it executes in various markets and regions by executing offsetting contracts to manage this risk in accordance with parameters established in its trading policy. A Risk Control Group monitors compliance with the established trading policy and measures the risk associated with the trading portfolio. Energy Marketing & Trading and the natural gas liquids trading operations (reported in the Midstream Gas & Liquids segment) measures the market risk in its trading portfolio utilizing a value at risk methodology to estimate the potential one day loss from adverse changes in the fair value of its trading operations. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, the value at risk for the trading operations was $50.2 million and $92.7 million, respectively. This decline in value at risk is primarily a result of the 28 percent decline in overall portfolio value outlined in previous sections. Value at risk requires a number of key assumptions and is not necessarily representative of actual losses in fair value that could be incurred from the trading portfolio. The value at risk model includes all financial instruments and physical positions and commitments in its trading portfolio and assumes that as a result of changes in commodity prices, there is a 95 percent probability that the one day loss in fair value of the trading portfolio will not exceed the value at risk. The value at risk model uses historical simulations to estimate hypothetical movements in future market prices assuming normal market conditions based upon historical market prices. Value at risk does not consider that changing the energy risk management and trading portfolio in response to market conditions could affect market prices and could take longer to execute than the one day holding period assumed in the value at risk model. While a one day holding period is the industry standard, a longer holding period could more accurately represent the true market risk in an environment where market illiquidity and credit and liquidity constraints of the company may result in further inability to mitigate risk in a timely manner in response to changes in market conditions. NON TRADING Williams is also exposed to market risks from changes in energy commodity prices within Exploration & Production, Petroleum Services, the non trading operations of Midstream Gas & Liquids and the non trading operations of Energy Marketing & Trading. Exploration & Production has commodity price risk associated with the sales prices of the natural gas and crude oil it produces. Petroleum Services refinery is exposed to commodity price risk for crude oil purchases and refined product sales. Midstream Gas & Liquids is exposed to commodity price risk related to natural gas purchases, natural gas liquids purchases and sales, and electricity cost. Energy Marketing & Trading is exposed to changing prices of natural gas purchased for the production of electricity. Williams manages its exposure to certain of these commodity price risks through the use of derivative commodity instruments. Williams non trading derivative commodity instruments primarily consist of natural gas price and basis swaps in its Exploration & Production business. A value at risk methodology was used to measure the market risk of these derivative commodity instruments in the non trading portfolio. It estimates the potential one day loss from adverse changes in the fair value of these instruments. The value at risk model did not consider the underlying commodity positions to which these derivative commodity instruments relate; therefore, it is not representative of actual losses that could occur on a total non trading portfolio basis that includes the underlying commodity positions. At December 31, 2002, the value at risk for the non trading derivative commodity instruments was approximately $45 million. Value at risk requires a number of key assumptions and is not necessarily representative of actual losses in fair value that could be incurred from the non trading derivative commodity instruments. The value at risk model assumes that as a result of changes in commodity prices there is a 95 percent probability that the one day loss in fair value of the non trading derivative commodity instruments will not exceed the value at risk. The value at risk model uses historical simulations 92 to estimate hypothetical movements in future market prices assuming normal market conditions based upon historical market prices. Gains and losses on these derivative commodity instruments would be substantially offset by corresponding gains and losses on the hedged commodity positions. FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK Williams has international investments that could affect the financial results if the investments incur a permanent decline in value as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the economic conditions in foreign countries. International investments accounted for under the cost method totaled $130 million and $143 million at December 31, 2002, and 2001, respectively. The fair value of these investments is deemed to approximate their carrying amount as the investments are primarily in non publicly traded companies for which it is not practicable to estimate the fair value of these investments. Williams continues to believe that it can realize the carrying value of these investments considering the status of the operations of the companies underlying these investments. If a 20 percent change occurred in the value of the underlying currencies of these investments against the U.S. dollar, the fair value of these investments at December 31, 2002, could change by approximately $26 million assuming a direct correlation between the currency fluctuation and the value of the investments. The net assets of foreign operations whose functional currency is the local currency, which are consolidated are located primarily in Canada and approximate 15 percent of Williams net assets at December 31, 2002. These foreign operations do not have significant transactions or financial instruments denominated in other currencies. However, these investments do have the potential to impact Williams financial position, due to fluctuations in these local currencies arising from the process of re measuring the local functional currency into the U.S. dollar. As an example, a 20 percent change in the respective functional currencies against the U.S. dollar could have changed stockholders equity by approximately $148 million at December 31, 2002. Williams historically has not utilized derivatives or other financial instruments to hedge the risk associated with the movement in foreign currencies with the exception of a Canadian dollar denominated note receivable (see Note 15). However, Williams evaluates currency fluctuations and will consider the use of derivative financial instruments or employment of other investment alternatives if cash flows or investment returns so warrant. EQUITY PRICE RISK Equity price risk primarily arises from investments in publicly traded energy related companies. The investments in the energy related companies are carried at fair value and totaled approximately $14 million and $8 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. 93 
 
