Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview of 2004 In February 2003, we outlined our planned business strategy in response to the events that significantly impacted the energy sector and our company during late 2001 and 2002. The plan focused upon migrating to an integrated natural gas business comprised of a strong, but smaller, portfolio of natural gas businesses, reducing debt and increasing our liquidity through asset sales, strategic levels of financing and reductions in operating costs. The plan provided us with a clear strategy to address near term and medium term debt and liquidity issues, to de leverage the company with the objective of returning to investment grade status and to develop a balance sheet capable of supporting and ultimately growing our remaining businesses. A component of our plan was to reduce the risk and liquidity requirements of the Power segment while realizing the value of Powers portfolio. In 2004, we continued to execute certain components of the plan and substantially completed our plan as outlined in February 2003. Our results for 2004 include the following. Completion of planned asset sales, which resulted in proceeds of approximately $877.8 million. Replacement of our cash collateralized letter of credit and revolver facility with facilities that do not encumber cash. Reduction of approximately $4 billion of debt through scheduled maturities and early redemptions, including an exchange offer for our FELINE PACS units. Reduction of risk and liquidity requirements of the Power segment. Reduction of approximately $33 million in our combined selling, general and administrative (SG&A) and general corporate expenses. On June 1, 2004, we announced an agreement with International Business Machines Corporation (IBM) to aid us in transforming and managing certain areas of our accounting, finance and human resources processes. Under the agreement, IBM will also manage key aspects of our information technology, including enterprise wide infrastructure and application development. The 71/2 year agreement began July 1, 2004 and is expected to reduce costs in these areas while maintaining a high quality of service. Current liquidity As a result of the accomplishments noted above, we enter 2005 with improved financial condition and liquidity. To manage our operations and meet unforeseen or extraordinary calls on cash, we expect to maintain liquidity from cash and revolving credit facilities of at least $1 billion. Power business In September 2004, our Board of Directors approved the decision to retain Power and end our efforts to exit that business. Several factors affected our decision to retain the business, including: the cash flow expected to be generated by the business (Power has contracts in place expected to generate cash in amounts that substantially cover its obligations through 2010); the negative effect of depressed wholesale power markets on the marketability of the Power segment; and our progress over the last two years in reducing the risk and increasing the certainty of cash flows from long term power contracts. Our strategy is to continue managing this business to minimize financial risk, maximize cash flow and meet contractual commitments. In the fourth quarter of 2004, we elected to begin applying hedge accounting to qualifying derivative contracts, which is expected to reduce Powers mark to market earnings volatility. 39 Table of Contents Outlook for 2005 Having successfully completed the key components of our February 2003 plan to strengthen our finances, we are now in a position to shift from restructuring to disciplined growth. Our plan for 2005 includes the following objectives: increase focus and disciplined EVA based investments in natural gas businesses; continue to steadily improve credit ratios and ratings with the goal of achieving investment grade ratios; continue to reduce risk and liquidity requirements while maximizing cash flow in the Power segment; maintain liquidity from cash and revolving credit facilities of at least $1 billion; and generate sustainable growth in EVA and shareholder value. As a result of the strategy to grow our natural gas asset base, we estimate capital and investment expenditures will increase to approximately $1.0 to $1.2 billion in 2005 compared to $787.4 million in 2004. We expect to fund capital and investment expenditures, debt payments and working capital requirements through cash and cash equivalents on hand and cash generated from operations, which is currently estimated to be between $1.3 billion and $1.6 billion in 2005. Potential risks and or obstacles that could prevent us from achieving these objectives include: lower than expected levels of cash flow from operations; volatility of commodity prices; decreased drilling success at Exploration & Production; exposure associated with our efforts to resolve regulatory and litigation issues (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); and general economic and industry downturn. We continue to address these risks through utilization of commodity hedging strategies, focused efforts to resolve regulatory issues and litigation claims, disciplined investment strategies and maintaining our desired level of at least $1 billion in liquidity from cash and revolving credit facilities. Critical accounting policies & estimates Our financial statements reflect the selection and application of accounting policies that require management to make significant estimates and assumptions. The selection of these has been discussed with our Audit Committee. We believe that the following are the more critical judgment areas in the application of our accounting policies that currently affect our financial condition and results of operations. Revenue recognition derivatives We hold a substantial portfolio of derivative contracts for a variety of purposes. Many of these are designated as hedge positions meaning changes in their fair value are not reflected in earnings until the associated hedged item impacts earnings. Others have not been designated as hedges or do not qualify for hedge accounting. The net change in fair value of these non hedge contracts represents unrealized gains and losses and is recognized in income currently (marked to market). The fair value for each of these derivative contracts is determined based on the nature of the transaction and the market in which transactions are executed. We also incorporate assumptions and judgments about counterparty performance and credit considerations in our determination of fair value. Certain contracts are executed in exchange traded or over the counter markets where quoted prices in active markets may exist. Transactions are also executed in exchange traded or over the counter markets for which market prices may exist, but which may be relatively inactive with limited price transparency. As a result, the ability to determine the fair value of the contract is 40 Table of Contents more subjective than if an independent third party quote were available. A limited number of transactions are also executed for which quoted market prices are not available. Determining fair value for these contracts involves assumptions and judgments when estimating prices at which market participants would transact if a market existed for the contract or transaction. We estimate the fair value of these various derivative contracts by incorporating information about commodity prices in actively quoted markets, quoted prices in less active markets, and other market fundamental analysis. The estimated fair value of all these derivative contracts is continually subject to change as the underlying energy commodity market changes and as managements assumptions and judgments change. Additional discussion of the accounting for energy contracts at fair value is included in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Energy Trading Activities, and Item 7A Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Oil and gas producing activities We use the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas producing activities. Estimated natural gas and oil reserves and or forward market prices for oil and gas are a significant part of our financial calculations. Following are examples of how these estimates affect financial results. An increase (decrease) in estimated proved oil and gas reserves can reduce (increase) our unit of production depreciation, depletion and amortization rates. Changes in oil and gas reserves and forward market prices both impact projected future cash flows from our oil and gas properties. These projected future cash flows are used: o to estimate the fair value of oil and gas properties for purposes of assessing them for impairment; and o to estimate the fair value of the Exploration & Production reporting unit for purposes of assessing its goodwill for impairment. Certain estimated reserves are used as collateral to secure financing. The process of estimating natural gas and oil reserves is very complex, requiring significant judgment in the evaluation of all available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data. After being estimated internally, 99 percent of our reserve estimates are either audited or prepared by independent experts. The data may change substantially over time as a result of numerous factors, including additional development activity, evolving production history and a continual reassessment of the viability of production under changing economic conditions. As a result, material revisions to existing reserve estimates could occur from time to time. A reasonably likely revision of our reserve estimates is not expected to result in an impairment of our oil and gas properties or goodwill. However, reserve estimate revisions would impact our depreciation and depletion expense prospectively. For example, a change of approximately 10 percent in oil and gas reserves for each basin would change our annual depreciation, depletion and amortization expense between approximately $16 million and $22 million. The actual impact would depend on the specific basins impacted and whether the change resulted from proved developed, proved undeveloped or a combination of these reserve categories. Forward market prices include estimates of prices for periods that extend beyond those with quoted market prices. This forward market price information is consistent with that generally used in evaluating drilling decisions and acquisition plans. These market prices for future periods impact the production economics underlying oil and gas reserve estimates. The prices of natural gas and oil are volatile and change from period to period thus impacting our estimates. A reasonably likely unfavorable change in the forward price curve is not expected to result in an impairment of our oil and gas properties or goodwill. Contingent liabilities We record liabilities for estimated loss contingencies, including environmental matters, when we assess that a loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Revisions to contingent liabilities are reflected in income in the period in which new or different facts or information become known or 41 Table of Contents circumstances change that affect the previous assumptions with respect to the likelihood or amount of loss. Liabilities for contingent losses are based upon our assumptions and estimates, and advice of legal counsel, engineers, or other third parties regarding the probable outcomes of the matter. As new developments occur or more information becomes available, it is possible that our assumptions and estimates in these matters will change. Changes in our assumptions and estimates or outcomes different from our current assumptions and estimates could materially affect future results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period. See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Valuation of deferred tax assets and tax contingencies We have deferred tax assets resulting from certain investments and businesses that have a tax basis in excess of the book basis and from tax carry forwards generated in the current and prior years. We evaluate whether we will ultimately realize these tax benefits and establish a valuation allowance for those that may not be realizable. This evaluation considers tax planning strategies, including assumptions about the availability and character of future taxable income. At December 31, 2004, we have $780 million of deferred tax assets for which a $62 million valuation allowance has been established. When assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we considered forecasts of future company performance, the estimated impact of potential asset dispositions, and our ability and intent to execute tax planning strategies to utilize tax carryovers. Based on our projections, we believe that it is probable that we can utilize our year end 2004 federal tax net operating loss carryovers and capital loss carryovers prior to their expiration. We do not expect to be able to utilize $21 million, or approximately $8 million of tax benefit, of the charitable contribution carryovers expiring in 2005. The remaining $43 million of charitable contribution carryovers are expected to be utilized prior to their expiration. We also do not expect to be able to utilize $54 million of foreign deferred tax assets related to carryovers. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the tax carryovers. The ultimate amount of deferred tax assets realized could be materially different from those recorded, as influenced by potential changes in jurisdictional income tax laws and the circumstances surrounding the actual realization of related tax assets. We frequently face challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the liability associated with our various filing positions, we record a liability for probable tax contingencies. The ultimate disposition of these contingencies could have a material impact on net cash flows. To the extent we were to prevail in matters for which accruals have been established or were required to pay amounts in excess of our accrued liability, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted. Impairment of long lived assets and investments We evaluate our long lived assets and investments for impairment when we believe events or changes in circumstances indicate that we may not be able to recover the carrying value of certain long lived assets or the decline in carrying value of an investment is other than temporary. In addition to those long lived assets and investments for which impairment charges were recorded (see Notes 2, 3 and 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), certain others were reviewed for which no impairment was required. Our computations utilized judgments and assumptions in the following areas: the probability that we would sell an asset or continue to hold and use it; undiscounted future cash flows if a long lived asset is held for use; estimated fair value of the asset; estimated sales proceeds if an asset is sold; form and timing of the asset disposition; counterparty performance considerations under contracted sales transactions; and for investments that are impaired, whether the impairment is other than temporary. 42 Table of Contents An indicator of impairment relating to our Canadian olefins assets was identified during 2004. It is possible that our investment in these assets may not be recoverable without modifications to or a renegotiation of key terms in an off gas processing agreement. Therefore, we performed recoverability tests that considered a possible sale of the assets versus successful renegotiation of the processing agreements. Our computations utilized judgments and assumptions in the following areas: varying terms of renegotiated contracts; commodity pricing; probability weighting of different scenarios; and estimated sales proceeds if the assets were sold. After applying probability weightings to the various scenarios, we determined that the assets did not require impairment at December 31, 2004. A critical assumption in our impairment analysis was the valuation of future contract terms in the related processing agreement. Under the most likely scenario, a decrease of approximately 25 percent or more in our estimate of the contract valuation would likely result in an impairment. Our Gulf Liquids New River Project LLC (Gulf Liquids) operations are classified as held for sale at December 31, 2004. These assets were written down to the then estimated fair value less costs to sell at December 31, 2003. Additional analysis during 2004 resulted in an impairment of $2.5 million. We estimated fair value based on a probability weighted analysis that considered sales price negotiations, salvage value estimates, and discounted future cash flows. This estimate involved significant judgment, including: commodity pricing; probability weighting of the different scenarios; and range of estimated sales proceeds, salvage value and future cash flows. The estimated cash flows from the various scenarios ranged from approximately $4 million above to $8 million below our estimated fair value at December 31, 2004. 43 Table of Contents Pension and postretirement obligations We have employee benefit plans that include pension and other postretirement benefits. Pension and other postretirement benefit plan expense and obligations are determined by a third party actuary and are impacted by various estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include the expected long term rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, expected rate of compensation increase, health care cost trend rates, and employee demographics including retirement age and mortality. We review these assumptions annually and make adjustments as needed. The assumptions utilized to compute expense and the benefit obligations are shown in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The table below presents the estimated increase (decrease) in pension and other postretirement benefit expense and obligations resulting from a one percentage point change in these assumptions. Benefit Expense Benefit Obligation One Percentage One Percentage One Percentage One Percentage Point Increase Point Decrease Point Increase Point Decrease (Millions) Pension benefits: Discount rate $ (14 ) $ 15 $ (125 ) $ 146 Expected long term rate of return on plan assets (8 ) 8 Rate of compensation increase 3 (2 ) 11 (11 ) Other postretirement benefits: Discount rate (1 ) 5 (48 ) 58 Expected long term rate of return on plan assets (2 ) 2 Assumed health care cost trend rate 8 (3 ) 52 (41 ) The expected long term rates of return on plan assets are determined by combining a review of historical returns realized within the portfolio, the investment strategy included in the plans Investment Policy Statement, and the capital market projections provided by our independent investment consultant for the asset classifications in which the portfolio is invested as well as the target weightings of each asset classification. These rates are impacted by changes in general market conditions, but because they are long term in nature, short term market swings do not significantly impact the rates. Changes to our target asset allocation would also impact these rates. The discount rates are used to discount future benefit obligations to todays dollars. Decreases in this rate cause the obligation and related expense to increase. The discount rates for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans were determined separately based on an approach specific to our plans and their respective expected benefit cash flows as described in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our discount rate assumptions are impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions which affect interest rates on long term high quality corporate bonds. The expected rate of compensation increase represents average long term salary increases. An increase in this rate causes pension obligation and expense to increase. The assumed health care cost trend rates used by the actuaries are based on our actual historical cost rates and then adjusted for expected changes in the health care industry. TAPS Quality Bank One of our subsidiaries, Williams Alaska Petroleum, Inc. (WAPI) is actively engaged in administrative litigation being conducted jointly by the FERC and the Regulatory Commission of Alaska (RCA) concerning the Trans Alaska Pipeline System (TAPS) Quality Bank. Primary issues being litigated include the appropriate valuation of the naphtha, heavy distillate, vacuum gas oil and residual product cuts within the 44 Table of Contents TAPS Quality Bank as well as the appropriate retroactive effects of the determinations. Due to the sale of WAPIs interests on March 31, 2004, we are no longer responsible for paying into the Quality Bank. We are responsible for any liability that existed as of that date including potential liability for any retroactive payments that might be awarded in these proceedings for the period prior to March 31, 2004. The FERC and RCA presiding administrative law judges rendered their joint and individual initial decisions during the third quarter of 2004. The initial decisions set forth methodologies for determining the valuations of the product cuts under review and also approved the retroactive application of the approved methodologies for the heavy distillate and residual product cuts (see Note 15 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Based on our computation and assessment of the 2004 initial decisions by both the FERC and RCA, we recorded an increase to our accrual of approximately $134 million in the third quarter of 2004. Because the application of certain aspects of the initial decisions is subject to interpretation, the exercise of significant judgment is required to calculate the impact of the order. We have calculated the reasonably possible impact of the decisions, if fully adopted by the FERC and RCA, to result in additional exposure to us of approximately $32 million more than we have accrued at December 31, 2004. Therefore, the final outcome could potentially be materially different than we have estimated and accrued. Recent accounting standards In December 2004, the FASB issued revised SFAS No. 123, Share Based Payment. The Statement requires that compensation cost for all share based awards to employees be recognized in the financial statements at fair value. The Statement is effective as of the beginning of the first interim or annual reporting period that begins after June 15, 2005. We intend to adopt the revised Statement as of the interim reporting period beginning July 1, 2005. The Statement requires an option pricing model to estimate the fair value of employee stock awards. We are evaluating the appropriateness of several option pricing models, including a Black Scholes model and a lattice model (such as a binomial model). Application of these two models could result in different estimates of fair value with resulting differences in compensation costs. Pro forma expense associated with options can be found in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We have not determined the impact of the Statement on net income beyond the presentation of the pro forma disclosures. General In accordance with the provisions related to discontinued operations within Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, the consolidated financial statements and notes in Part II Item 8 reflect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows through the date of sale, as applicable, of certain components as discontinued operations (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Unless indicated otherwise, the following discussion and analysis of results of operations, financial condition and liquidity relates to our current continuing operations and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Part II Item 8 of this document. 45 Table of Contents Results of operations Consolidated overview The following table and discussion is a summary of our consolidated results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 2004. The results of operations by segment are discussed in further detail following this Consolidated Overview discussion. Years Ended December 31, % Change % Change from from 2004 2003(1) 2003 2002(1) 2002 (Millions) (Millions) (Millions) Revenues $ 12,461.3 25 % $ 16,651.0 NM $ 3,434.5 Costs and expenses: Costs and operating expenses 10,751.7 +28 % 15,004.3 NM 1,987.7 Selling, general and administrative expenses 355.5 +16 % 421.3 +27 % 575.6 Other (income) expense net (51.6 ) +142 % (21.3 ) NM 240.4 General corporate expenses 119.8 38 % 87.0 +39 % 142.8 Total costs and expenses 11,175.4 +28 % 15,491.3 NM 2,946.5 Operating income 1,285.9 +11 % 1,159.7 +138 % 488.0 Interest accrued net (827.7 ) +34 % (1,248.0 ) 9 % (1,141.9 ) Interest rate swap loss (5.0 ) 127 % (2.2 ) +98 % (124.2 ) Investing income (loss) 48.0 34 % 73.2 NM (113.1 ) Early debt retirement costs (282.1 ) NM (66.8 ) NM Minority interest in income and preferred returns of consolidated subsidiaries (21.4 ) 10 % (19.4 ) +54 % (41.8 ) Other income net 26.8 34 % 40.7 +67 % 24.3 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and cumulative effect of change in accounting principles 224.5 NM (62.8 ) +93 % (908.7 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 131.3 NM (5.3 ) 98 % (290.3 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations 93.2 NM (57.5 ) +91 % (618.4 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations 70.5 78 % 326.6 NM (136.3 ) Income (loss) before cumulative effect of change in accounting principles 163.7 39 % 269.1 NM (754.7 ) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles +100 % (761.3 ) NM Net income (loss) 163.7 NM (492.2 ) +35 % (754.7 ) Preferred stock dividends +100 % 29.5 +67 % 90.1 Income (loss) applicable to common stock $ 163.7 NM $ (521.7 ) +38 % $ (844.8 ) (1) + Favorable Change; Unfavorable Change; NM A percentage calculation is not meaningful due to change in signs, a zero value denominator or a percentage change greater than 200. 46 Table of Contents 2004 vs. 2003 The $4.2 billion decrease in revenues is due primarily to an approximately $3.9 billion decrease in revenues at Power resulting from lower realized revenues from power and crude and refined products. Partially offsetting the decrease was an increase in Midstreams revenues of $97.8 million reflecting higher volumes and improved natural gas liquids (NGL) margins. The $4.3 billion decrease in costs and operating expenses is due primarily to lower costs and operating expenses at Power. This decrease is due primarily to lower purchase volumes of power and crude and refined products. The $65.8 million decrease in selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses is due primarily to a $36 million decrease in compensation expense at Power due to reduced staffing levels, combined with the absence of $13.6 million of expense related to the accelerated recognition of deferred compensation during 2003. In addition, Midstreams SG&A expense declined $18 million largely due to asset sales and lower legal expense. Other (income) expense net, within operating income, in 2004 includes: $93.6 million income from an insurance arbitration award for Gulf Liquids, included in the Midstream segment; $16.2 million of gains from the sale of Exploration & Productions securities, invested in a coal seam royalty trust, that were purchased for resale; a $9.5 million gain on the sale of Louisiana olefins assets in the Midstream segment; a $15.4 million loss provision related to an ownership dispute on prior period production included in the Exploration & Production segment; an $11.8 million environmental expense accrual related to the Augusta refinery facility, included in the Other segment; and a $9 million write off of previously capitalized costs on an idled segment of Northwest Pipelines system included in the Gas Pipeline segment. Other (income) expense net, within operating income, in 2003 includes: a $188 million gain from the sale of a Power contract; $96.7 million in net gains from the sale of Exploration & Productions interests in certain natural gas properties in the San Juan basin; a $16.2 million gain from Midstreams sale of the wholesale propane business; a $12.2 million gain on foreign currency exchange at Power; a $9.2 million gain on sale of blending assets at the Other segment; $7.2 million of income at Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation (Transco) due to a partial reduction of accrued liabilities for claims associated with certain producers as a result of settlements and court rulings included in the Gas Pipeline segment; a $108.7 million impairment on Gulf Liquids, included in the Midstream segment; a $45 million goodwill impairment at Power; a $44.1 million impairment of the Hazelton generation plant at Power; a $25.6 million charge at Northwest Pipeline to write off capitalized software development costs for a service delivery system included in the Gas Pipeline segment; a $20 million charge related to a settlement by Power with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); 47 Table of Contents a $19.5 million expense accrual at Power related to an adjustment of California rate refund and other related accruals; and a $7.2 million impairment of the Aspen project at the Other segment. The $32.8 million increase in general corporate expenses is due primarily to efforts to evaluate and implement certain cost reduction strategies, and initial costs associated with outsourcing of certain services, increased legal costs due primarily to shareholder litigation and Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) matters, and increased third party costs associated with certain mandated compliance activities. The $420.3 million decrease in interest accrued net includes: $206 million lower interest expense and fees at Exploration & Production, due primarily to the May 2003 prepayment of a secured note payable of Williams Production RMT Company (the RMT note); a $164 million decrease reflecting lower average borrowing levels; $46 million lower amortization expense related to deferred debt issuance costs, primarily due to the reduction of debt; a $24 million decrease reflecting lower average interest rates on long term debt; the absence in 2004 of $14 million of interest expense at Power related to a FERC ruling in 2003; the absence in 2004 of $10 million of interest expense related to a petroleum pricing dispute in 2003; and a $35 million decrease in capitalized interest due primarily to completion of certain Midstream projects in the Gulf Coast region. The $25.2 million decrease in investing income includes $57.1 million lower interest income due primarily to higher net interest income at Power as a result of certain 2003 FERC proceedings. The decrease was partially offset by $29.6 million higher equity earnings. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Early debt retirement costs include payments in excess of the carrying value of the debt, dealer fees and the write off of deferred debt issuance costs and discount/premium on the debt. The provision (benefit) for income taxes increased by $136.6 million due primarily to pre tax income in 2004 compared to a pre tax loss in 2003. The effective income tax rate for 2004 is higher than the federal statutory rate due primarily to state income taxes, a charge associated with charitable contribution carryovers and the effect of taxes on foreign operations. A 2004 accrual for tax contingencies was offset by favorable settlements of certain Federal and state income tax matters. The effective income tax rate for 2003 is lower than the federal statutory rate due primarily to non deductible impairment of goodwill, non deductible expenses, an accrual for tax contingencies and the effect of state income taxes, somewhat offset by the tax benefit of capital losses. Income from discontinued operations decreased $256.1 million (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The decrease in the operating results from discontinued operations activities of $318.8 million is reflective of the following pre tax items: the $153 million of charges to increase our accrued liability associated with certain Quality Bank litigation matters (see Note 15); the absence in 2004 of approximately $108 million of income (net of losses) from discontinued operations in 2003 of Canadian liquids, Williams Energy Partners, Bio energy facilities, Raton Basin and Hugoton Embayment natural gas exploration and production properties, Texas Gas, Midsouth refinery and related assets and Williams travel centers; and 48 Table of Contents a decrease of approximately $50 million in income from the Canadian straddle plants and Alaska refining, retail and pipeline operations, which were sold in 2004. The 2004 net gain on sales of discontinued operations of $200.5 million includes a $189.8 million gain on the sale of three straddle plants in western Canada. The 2003 net gain on sales of discontinued operations of $277.7 million includes the following pre tax items: $463.4 million of gains on sales of assets; $176.1 million of impairments of assets; and $9.6 million of loss on sale of assets. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for detail of the gains and losses on sales and asset impairments. The cumulative effect of change in accounting principles reduced net income for 2003 by $761.3 million due to a $762.5 million charge related to the adoption of EITF 02 3 (see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), slightly offset by $1.2 million related to the adoption of SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). In June 2003, we redeemed all of our outstanding 9.875 percent cumulative convertible preferred shares. Thus, no preferred dividends were paid in 2004. 2003 vs. 2002 The $13.2 billion increase in revenues is due primarily to increased revenues at Power and Midstream as a result of the January 1, 2003 adoption of EITF 02 3, which requires that revenues and costs of sales from non derivative contracts and certain physically settled derivative contracts be reported on a gross basis (see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Prior to the adoption of EITF 02 3, revenues and costs of sales related to non derivative contracts and certain physically settled derivative contracts were reported in revenues on a net basis. As permitted by EITF 02 3, 2002 amounts have not been restated. Powers revenues increased $13.3 billion and Midstreams revenues increased $1.6 billion due primarily to the effect of EITF 02 3. The increase in revenues also includes $210 million due primarily to higher natural gas liquids (NGL) revenues at Midstreams gas processing plants as a result of moderate market price increases, partially offset by lower NGL production volumes. Results for 2003 include approximately $117 million of revenue related to the correction of the accounting treatment previously applied to certain third party derivative contracts during 2002 and 2001. This matter was initially disclosed in our Form 10 Q for the second quarter of 2003. Loss from continuing operations before income taxes and cumulative effect of change in accounting principles in 2003 was $62.8 million. Absent the corrections, we would have reported a larger pre tax loss from continuing operations in 2003. Approximately $83 million of this revenue relates to a correction of net energy trading assets for certain derivative contract terminations occurring in 2001. The remaining $34 million relates to net gains on certain other derivative contracts entered into in 2002 and 2001 that we now believe should not have been deferred as a component of other comprehensive income due to the incorrect designation of these contracts as cash flow hedges. Our management, after consultation with our independent auditor, concluded that the effect of the previous accounting treatment was not material to 2003 and prior periods and the trend of earnings. The $13 billion increase in costs and operating expenses is due primarily to the effect of reporting certain costs on a gross basis at Power and Midstream, as discussed above. Costs increased $12.9 billion at Power and $1.9 billion at Midstream due primarily to the effect of EITF 02 3. Contributing to the increase at our Midstream segment is $113 million attributable to rising market prices for natural gas used to replace the heating value of NGLs extracted at their gas processing facilities. The cost increases at these operating units were partially offset by $1.5 billion higher intercompany eliminations resulting primarily from intercompany costs that were previously netted in revenues prior to the adoption of EITF 02 3. 49 Table of Contents The $154.3 million decrease in SG&A expenses is due primarily to reduced staffing levels at Power reflective of our strategy to exit this business. Also contributing to the decrease was the absence of $22 million of costs related to an enhanced benefit early retirement option offered to certain employee groups in 2002. Other (income) expense net, within operating income, in 2003 is included above in the 2004 vs. 2003 discussion. Other (income) expense net, within operating income, in 2002 includes: $244.6 million of impairment charges, loss accruals, and write offs within Power, including a partial impairment of goodwill; $78.2 million of impairment charges related to Midstreams Canadian olefin assets; and $141.7 million in net gains from the sale of Exploration & Productions interests in natural gas properties. The $55.8 million decrease in general corporate expenses is due primarily to the absence in 2003 of $24 million of various restructuring costs associated with the liquidity and business issues addressed beginning third quarter 2002. We also incurred $19 million higher advertising and branding costs in 2002 (due primarily to golf events and other advertising campaigns that were not continued in 2003). The $106.1 million increase in interest accrued net is primarily due to: $48.1 million higher interest expense and fees primarily related to the RMT note payable, which was prepaid in May 2003; an $18.2 million increase in capitalized interest, which offsets interest accrued, due primarily to Midstreams projects in the Gulf Coast Region; $21 million higher amortization expense related to deferred debt issuance costs including a $14.5 million write off of accelerated amortization of costs from the termination of a revolving credit agreement in June 2003; a $43 million increase reflecting higher average interest rates on long term debt; a $15 million decrease reflecting lower average borrowing levels; and $14 million of interest expense at Power as a result of certain 2003 FERC proceedings. In 2002, we began entering into interest rate swaps with external counterparties primarily in support of the energy trading portfolio. The change in market value of these swaps was $122 million more favorable in 2003 than 2002, due largely to a reduction in overall swap positions during the second half of 2002. The total notional amount of these swaps is approximately $300 million at December 31, 2003. The $186.3 million increase in investing income in 2003 includes: the absence in 2003 of a $268.7 million loss provision relating to the estimated recoverability of receivables from WilTel; $56.1 million higher interest income due primarily to higher net interest income at Power as a result of certain 2003 FERC proceedings; $22.9 million higher impairments of cost based investments; $25.3 million loss from investments in 2003 compared to $42.1 million income from investments in 2002; and $52.7 million lower equity earnings. Minority interest in income and preferred returns of consolidated subsidiaries in 2003 is lower than 2002 due primarily to the absence of preferred returns totaling $23 million on the preferred interests in Castle Associates L.P., Piceance Production Holdings L.L.C., and Williams Risk Holdings L.L.C., which were modified and reclassified as debt in third quarter 2002, and Arctic Fox, L.L.C., which was modified and reclassified as debt in April 2002. 50 Table of Contents Other income net, below operating income, in 2003 includes $84.7 million of foreign currency transaction gains on a Canadian dollar denominated note receivable. Partially offsetting these gains were $79.8 million of derivative losses on a forward contract to fix the U.S. dollar principal cash flows from this note. The provision (benefit) for income taxes was unfavorable by $285 million due primarily to reduced pre tax loss in 2003 compared to 2002. The effective income tax rate for 2003 is lower than the federal statutory rate due primarily to non deductible impairment of goodwill, non deductible expenses, an accrual for tax contingencies and the effect of state income taxes, somewhat offset by the tax benefit of capital losses. The effective income tax rate for 2002 is less than the federal statutory rate due primarily to the effect of taxes on foreign operations, non deductible impairment of goodwill, an accrual for tax contingencies and income tax credits recapture that reduced the tax benefit of the pre tax loss somewhat offset by the tax benefit of capital losses and the effect of state income taxes. The 2003 net gain on sales of discontinued operations of $277.7 million is included above in the 2004 vs. 2003 discussion. The 2002 net loss on sales of discontinued operations of $567.8 million includes: $771.8 million impairment of assets; $97.7 million loss on sale of assets; and $301.7 million gain on sale of assets. The cumulative effect of change in accounting principles reduces net income for 2003 by $761.3 million due to a $762.5 million charge related to the adoption of EITF 02 3 (see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), slightly offset by $1.2 million related to the adoption of SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). In June 2003, we redeemed all of our outstanding 9.875 percent cumulative convertible preferred shares for approximately $289 million, plus $5.3 million for accrued dividends (see Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Preferred stock dividends in 2002 reflects the first quarter 2002 impact of recording a $69.4 million non cash dividend associated with the accounting for a preferred security that contained a conversion option that was beneficial to the purchaser at the time the security was issued. Results of operations segments We are currently organized into the following segments: Power, Gas Pipeline, Exploration & Production, Midstream and Other. Other primarily consists of corporate operations and certain continuing operations formerly included in the previously reported International and Petroleum Services segments. Our management currently evaluates performance based on segment profit (loss) from operations (see Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Prior period amounts have been restated to reflect all segment changes. The following discussions relate to the results of operations of our segments. Power Overview of 2004 Powers 2004 operating results were significantly influenced by past efforts to exit from the Power business and the effect of price changes on derivative contracts. Prior to September 2004, Power continued to focus on 1) terminating or selling all or portions of its portfolio, 2) maximizing cash flow, 3) reducing risk, and 4) managing existing contractual commitments. These efforts were consistent with our 2002 decision to sell all or portions of Powers portfolio. The decrease in revenues, costs and SG&A expenses in 2004 reflects our lower levels of business activity pursuant to our past efforts to exit the Power business. 51 Table of Contents In September 2004, we announced our decision to continue operating the Power business and cease efforts to exit that business. As a result, subsequent to September 2004, Power continued to focus on its objectives of minimizing financial risk, maximizing cash flow, meeting contractual commitments and providing functions that support our natural gas businesses. In addition, Power began executing new contracts to hedge its portfolio. As a result of our past intent to exit the Power business, Powers derivative contracts did not previously qualify for hedge accounting. Therefore, we reported changes in the forward fair value of our derivative contracts in earnings as unrealized gains or losses. However, with the decision to retain the business, Powers derivative contracts became eligible for hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, (SFAS 133) and Power elected hedge accounting on a prospective basis beginning October 1, 2004 for certain qualifying derivative contracts. Under cash flow hedge accounting, to the extent that the hedges are effective, prospective changes in the forward fair value of the hedges are reported as changes in Accumulated other comprehensive income in the Stockholders equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheet, and then reclassified to earnings when the underlying hedged transactions (i.e. power sales and gas purchases) affect earnings. Key factors that influence Powers financial condition and operating performance include the following: prices of power and natural gas, including changes in the margin between power and natural gas prices; changes in market liquidity, including changes in the ability to effectively hedge the portfolio; changes in power and natural gas price volatility; changes in interest rates; changes in the regulatory environment; changes in power and natural gas supply and demand; and the inability of counterparties to perform under contractual obligations due to their own credit constraints. Outlook for 2005 In 2005, Power intends to service its customers needs while increasing the certainty of cash flows from its long term contracts. As Power continues to apply hedge accounting in 2005, its future earnings may be less volatile. However, not all of Powers derivative contracts qualify for hedge accounting. Power will continue to report changes in the fair value of those remaining non hedge contracts in earnings as unrealized gains or losses. In addition, the ineffective portion of the change in the forward fair value of qualifying hedges will also continue to be reported in earnings. Because the derivative contracts qualifying for hedge accounting have significant fair value that has been recognized as unrealized gains or losses prior to October 1, 2004, the amounts recognized in future earnings under hedge accounting will not necessarily align with the expected cash flows to be realized from the settlement of those derivatives. Therefore, it is expected that future earnings will reflect losses from underlying transactions that have been hedged by the derivatives, but will not reflect the corresponding offsetting positive value from the hedges since such positive value has already been recognized in prior periods. However, cash flows from Powers portfolio continue to reflect the net amount from both the hedged transactions and the hedges. Even with the adoption of hedge accounting, some variability in Powers earnings will remain as a result of: market movements of commodity based derivatives held for trading purposes or which did not qualify for hedge accounting; and 52 Table of Contents ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges primarily caused by locational differences between the hedging derivative and the hedged item, changes in the creditworthiness of counterparties and the hedging derivative contract having a fair value upon designation. The fair value of Powers tolling, full requirements, transportation, storage and transmission contracts are not reflected in the balance sheet since these contracts are not derivatives. Some of these contracts have a significant negative estimated fair value and, therefore, could also result in future operating gains or losses as a result of the volatile nature of energy commodity markets. The inability of counterparties to perform under contractual obligations due to their own credit constraints could also affect future operations. Year over year operating results Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (Millions) Realized revenues $ 8,954.7 $ 12,930.5 $ (278.7 )* Forward unrealized mark to market gains 304.0 262.1 193.5 Segment revenues 9,258.7 13,192.6 (85.2 ) Cost of sales 9,073.3 12,954.6 28.9 Gross margin 185.4 238.0 (114.1 ) Operating expenses 23.7 35.3 40.0 Selling, general and administrative expenses 83.2 124.0 209.0 Other income (expense) net (1.8 ) 56.4 (263.1 ) Segment profit (loss) $ 76.7 $ 135.1 $ (626.2 ) * In 2002, Power reported its trading operations physical sales transactions net of the related purchase costs. See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 2004 vs. 2003 The $3.9 billion decrease in revenues includes an approximately $4 billion decrease in realized revenues partially offset by a $41.9 million increase in forward unrealized mark to market gains. Realized revenues represent 1) revenue from the sale of commodities or completion of energy related services, and 2) gains and losses from the net financial settlement of derivative contracts. The approximately $4 billion decrease in realized revenues is primarily due to an approximately $3.1 billion decrease in power and natural gas realized revenues and an $862 million decrease in crude and refined products realized revenues. Power and natural gas realized revenues decreased primarily due to a 47 percent decrease in power sales volumes, partially offset by a five percent increase in power sales prices. Sales volumes decreased because Power did not replace certain long term physical contracts that expired or were terminated in 2003, primarily due to a lack of market liquidity and past efforts to reduce our commitment to the Power business. In addition, results for 2003 include a realized gain of $126.8 million based on the terms of an agreement to terminate a derivative contract. In addition, during 2003, revenues include the correction of the accounting treatment previously applied to certain third party derivative contracts during 2002 and 2001, resulting in the recognition of approximately $117 million in revenues attributable to prior periods. Refer to Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Additionally, power and natural gas revenues in 2003 include a $37 million reduction for increased power rate refunds owed to the state of California as the result of FERC rulings. Crude and refined products revenues decreased primarily due to the sale of the crude gathering business in 2003, the sale of the refined products business in 2004 and the past efforts to exit this line of business. Net forward unrealized mark to market gains and losses represent changes in the fair values of derivative contracts with a future settlement or delivery date. In 2004, Power had net forward unrealized mark to market 53 Table of Contents gains of $304 million, an increase of $41.9 million from 2003. The increase in unrealized gains is due to a $75 million increase associated with power and gas contracts, partially offset by an $11 million decrease in crude and refined products and a $22 million decrease in the interest rate portfolio. The increase in power and gas primarily results from a greater increase associated with near term natural gas forward prices in 2004 than in 2003. Also contributing to the increase was the absence in 2004 of unrealized losses of approximately $70 million recognized in first quarter 2003 on contracts for which we elected the normal purchases and sales exception in second quarter 2003. Another factor contributing to the increase was the impact of cash flow hedge accounting, which was prospectively applied to certain of Powers forecasted transactions beginning October 1, 2004. A net loss of $15 million related to the effective portion of the hedges was reported in Accumulated other comprehensive income in 2004. The decrease in crude and refined products primarily results from the sale of the crude gathering business in 2003, the sale of the refined products business in 2004 and the past efforts to exit this line of business. These activities led to a significantly smaller derivative position in 2004 than in 2003 which resulted in lower unrealized mark to market gains. The decrease in the interest rate portfolio is due primarily to a decrease in forward interest rates in first quarter 2004 compared to a slight increase in first quarter 2003. The $3.9 billion decrease in Powers costs is primarily due to a decrease in power and natural gas costs of approximately $3 billion and a decrease in crude and refined products costs of $904.5 million. Power and natural gas costs decreased primarily due to a 48 percent decrease in power purchase volumes, partially offset by a two percent increase in power prices. A $10.4 million reduction to certain contingent loss accruals in 2004 and a $13.8 million loss for other contingencies in 2003, both associated with power marketing activities in California during 2000 and 2001, contributed to the decrease in costs discussed above. Costs in 2004 also reflect a $13 million payment made to terminate a non derivative power sales contract, which partially offsets the decrease in power and natural gas costs. Crude and refined products costs decreased primarily due to the sale of the crude gathering business in 2003, the sale of the refined products business in 2004, and other past efforts to exit this line of business. The $40.8 million decrease in SG&A expenses is largely due to a $36 million decline in compensation expense, primarily as a result of staff reductions in prior years combined with the accelerated recognition of $13.6 million in 2003 of certain deferred compensation arrangements. In addition, a $6.3 million reduction of allowance for bad debts resulting from the 2004 settlement with certain California utilities and the absence of a $6.5 million bad debt charge associated with a termination settlement in 2003 also contributed to the decrease. Other (income) expense net in 2004 includes $6.1 million in fees related to the sale of certain receivables to a third party. Other (income) expense net in 2003 includes a $188 million gain from the sale of an energy trading contract and a $13.8 million gain from the sale of certain investments. These income items are partially offset by the effect of the following 2003 items: a $20 million charge for a settlement with the CFTC; accruals of $19.5 million for power marketing activities in California in prior periods (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); a $45 million impairment of goodwill; a $44.1 million impairment on a power generating facility (see Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); and a $14.1 million impairment associated with the Aux Sable partnership investment (see Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The $58.4 million decrease in segment profit is primarily due to lower sales volumes and the absence in 2004 of income from certain terminated contracts and prior period adjustments and the effect of the other income changes noted above, partially offset by lower SG&A. 54 Table of Contents 2003 vs. 2002 The $13.3 billion increase in revenues includes an approximately $13.2 billion increase in realized revenues and a $68.6 million increase in forward unrealized mark to market gains. Realized revenues increased primarily as a result of the implementation of EITF 02 3 on January 1, 2003. EITF 02 3 impacts how Power present revenues and costs from certain transactions in the statement of operations. The table below summarizes items included in revenues and costs before and after January 1, 2003: Before After Revenues: Revenues: Realized revenues: Realized revenues: Revenue from sales of commodities or completion of energy related services Revenue from sales of commodities or completion of energy related services Gains and losses from net financial settlement of derivative contracts Gains and losses from net financial settlement of derivative contracts Costs from purchases of commodities or fees from energy related services that were not associated with property, plant and equipment we owned Forward unrealized mark to market gains: Forward unrealized mark to market gains: Gains and losses from changes in fair value of all energy trading contracts with a future settlement or delivery date Gains and losses from changes in fair value of only derivative contracts with a future settlement or delivery date Costs: Costs: Costs from purchases of commodities or fees from energy related services for use in property, plant and equipment that we owned Costs from purchases of all commodities or fees for energy related services As illustrated in the table above, Power now reports certain purchases in costs instead of reporting them as reduction of revenues. Revenues for 2003 include a realized gain of $126.8 million based on the terms of an agreement to terminate a derivative contract. Additionally, during 2003, Power corrected the accounting treatment previously applied to certain third party derivative contracts during 2002 and 2001, resulting in the recognition in 2003 of approximately $117 million in revenues attributable to prior periods. This matter was initially disclosed in our Form 10 Q for the second quarter of 2003. Refer to Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Realized revenues in 2003 also include a $37 million loss for increased power rate refunds owed to the state of California as the result of FERC rulings, which partially offsets the general increase discussed above. Increased power supply in the mid continent and eastern regions contributed to lower prices received on power sales in 2003, which further offsets the general increase in realized revenues. EITF 02 3 also affects forward unrealized mark to market gains. Before the adoption of EITF 02 3, Power reported the fair value of all its energy contracts, energy related contracts and inventory on the balance 55 Table of Contents sheet. Power reported changes in the fair value of the items, or forward unrealized mark to market gains, from period to period in revenues. Examples of derivative and non derivative contracts are as follows: Derivative Contracts Non Derivative Contracts Forward purchase and sale contracts Spot purchase and sale contracts Futures contracts Transportation contracts Option contracts Storage contracts Swap agreements Tolling agreements (power conversion contracts) Full requirement or load serving contracts (power sales contracts in which we supply all of the customers requirements for power) In 2003, Power continued to reflect the changes in fair value of derivative contracts in revenues and segment profit. However, for non derivative contracts, Power does not recognize revenue until commodities are delivered or services are completed. The $68.6 million increase in forward unrealized mark to market gains includes a $44 million increase in the power and natural gas portfolios and a $71 million increase in the interest rate portfolio, partially offset by a $46 million decrease in the crude and refined products portfolio. Power and natural gas forward unrealized mark to market gains in 2003 reflect the impact of decreased forward power prices on net power sales contracts (derivative contracts) and increased forward gas prices on net gas purchase contracts (derivative contracts). Increased power supply in the mid continent and eastern U.S. significantly contributed to the decrease in forward power prices. Unrealized mark to market gains in 2002 were lower primarily due to the impact of decreased margins between forward power prices and the estimated cost to produce the power on tolling contracts (non derivative contracts). The decline in volatility of the power and natural gas markets in 2002 also contributed to a decrease in fair value of tolling contracts within certain of our tolling portfolios as it does other option contracts. Tolling contracts possess characteristics of options since we have the right but not the obligation to request the plant owner to convert natural gas to power. Results in 2002 also reflect an unfavorable $74.8 million valuation adjustment on certain non derivative power sale contracts. Quotes received during sales efforts in 2002 resulted in the valuation adjustment. The effect of decreased interest rates on power and natural gas derivative and non derivative contracts in 2002 partially offsets the general increase discussed above. As interest rates decreased in 2002, the overall fair value of these commodity contracts increased. Further offsetting the general increase is a lack of origination in 2003. In 2002, we recognized $85.1 million of power and natural gas revenues by originating new contracts, a portion of which realized during 2002. The favorable net effect of approximately $85 million resulting from a settlement with the state of California in 2002 also partially offsets the increase in power and natural gas forward unrealized mark to market gains. The $85 million reflects the increase in fair value on power sales contracts with the California Department of Water Resources, which resulted from a restructuring of the contracts and the improved credit standing of the counterparty. The increase in the interest rate portfolio reflects a lesser decrease in forward interest rates in 2003 than in 2002. The decrease in crude and refined products portfolios reflects a lack of origination in 2003. In 2002, Power recognized $118.8 million of forward unrealized mark to market gains within the petroleum products portfolio by originating new contracts, a portion of which realized in 2002. The $12.9 billion increase in costs is primarily due to the implementation of EITF 02 3 as discussed above. As a result of EITF 02 3, Power now reports certain purchases in costs instead of reporting them as reduction of revenues. The increase in costs caused by EITF 02 3 does not affect gross margin or segment profit. Also included in 2003 costs is a $13.8 million loss for other contingencies related to our power marketing activities in the state of California. The reduced focus on the Power business resulted in further employee reductions in 2003. We employed approximately 250 employees at the end of 2003 compared to approximately 410 at the end of 2002. This decrease in employees was a primary factor in the $85 million, or 41 percent, decrease in SG&A expenses. The $319.5 million variance in other income (expense) net is primarily due to Power terminating or selling certain contracts and other assets, resulting in losses in 2002 and gains in 2003. In 2002, Power 56 Table of Contents terminated certain power related capital projects, which resulted in $138.8 million of impairments. Power also recorded a $44.7 million impairment in 2002 from the January 2003 sale of the Worthington generation facility. In 2003, Power sold a non derivative energy trading contract resulting in a $188 million gain on sale. Power also sold an interest in certain investments accounted for under the equity method in 2003 for a gain of $13.8 million. A $45 million goodwill impairment in 2003 compared to a $61.1 million goodwill impairment in 2002 also contributed to the increase in Other (income) expense net. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Other factors offset the increase in Other income (expense) net. In 2003, Power recognized a $44.1 million impairment on a power generating facility (see Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Power also reached a settlement with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as discussed in Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, resulting in a charge of $20 million. In addition, Power recognized $14.1 million of impairment charges associated with the Aux Sable partnership investment. Finally, Power recorded accruals of $19.5 million for power marketing activities in California during 2000 and 2001 (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The $761.3 million increase in segment profit is primarily due to an increase in realized revenues and forward unrealized mark to market gains that were greater than the increase in costs. Further impacting this increase are the changes in other (income) expense net and a decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as discussed above. Gas Pipeline Overview of 2004 Gas Pipelines interstate transmission and storage activities are subject to regulation by the FERC and as such, our rates and charges for the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, and the extension, enlargement or abandonment of jurisdictional facilities and accounting, among other things, are subject to regulation. The rates are established through the FERCs ratemaking process. Changes in commodity prices and volumes transported have little impact on revenues because the majority of cost of service is recovered through firm capacity reservation charges in transportation rates. Effective June 1, 2004, and due in part to FERC Order 2004, management and decision making control of certain regulated gas gathering assets was transferred from our Midstream segment to our Gas Pipeline segment. Consequently, the results of operations were similarly reclassified. All prior periods reflect these classifications. Northwest Pipeline in western Washington In December 2003, we received an Amended Corrective Action Order (ACAO) from the U.S. Department of Transportations Office of Pipeline Safety (OPS) regarding a segment of one of our natural gas pipelines in western Washington. The pipeline experienced two breaks in 2003 and we subsequently idled the pipeline segment until its integrity could be assured. By June 2004, we had successfully completed our hydrostatic testing program and returned to service 111 miles of the 268 miles of pipe affected by the ACAO. That effort has restored 131 thousand dekatherms per day (Mdt/d) of the 360 Mdt/d of idled capacity and is anticipated to be adequate to meet most market conditions. The decision to idle the pipeline has not had a significant impact on our ability to meet market demand to date. The restored facilities will be monitored and tested as necessary until they are ultimately replaced. As of December 31, 2004, approximately $40 million has been spent on testing and remediation, including approximately $9 million related to one segment of pipe that we determined not to return to service and therefore was written off in the second quarter of 2004. We estimate additional testing and remediation costs of up to $5 million. On October 4, 2004 we received a notice of probable violation (NOPV) from OPS. Under the provisions of the NOPV, OPS has issued a preliminary civil penalty of $100,000 for exceeding the pressure restriction on one of the segments covered under the original CAO. This penalty was accrued in the third 57 Table of Contents quarter of 2004. The incident occurred on July 15, 2003 and did not occur as part of normal operations, but in preparation for running an internal inspection tool to test the integrity of the line. The operating pressure dictated by the original CAO was exceeded for approximately three hours due to the mechanical failure of an overpressure device and we immediately reported the incident to the OPS. There was no impact on pipeline facilities, and no additional sections of the pipeline were affected. Following the incident, new protocols were adopted to ensure that a similar situation would not occur in the future. We requested a hearing on the proposed OPS civil penalty, which was held on December 15, 2004. We expect OPS to issue its decision in the near future. As required by OPS, we plan to replace the pipelines entire capacity by November 2006 to meet long term demands. We conducted a reverse open season to determine whether any existing customers were willing to relinquish or reduce their capacity commitments to allow us to reduce the scope of pipeline replacement facilities, which resulted in 13 Mdt/d of capacity being relinquished and incorporated into the replacement project. On November 29, 2004, we filed with the FERC a certificate of application for the Capacity Replacement Project, including construction of approximately 79.5 miles of 36 inch pipeline and 10,760 net horsepower of additional compression at two existing compressor stations and abandonment of approximately 268 miles of the existing 26 inch pipeline. The estimated net cost of the Capacity Replacement Project included in the filing is approximately $333 million. The majority of these costs will be spent in 2005 and 2006. We anticipate filing a rate case to recover the capitalized costs relating to restoration and replacement facilities following the in service date of the replacement facilities. Momentum Phase II In February 2004, Transco placed an expansion into service increasing capacity on its natural gas system by 54 Mdt/d. The expansion provides additional firm transportation capacity to serve Transcos southeastern market area. Georgia Strait Project In December 2004, we mutually agreed with British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority (BC Hydro) to end plans to construct a $209 million natural gas pipeline across the Strait of Georgia to serve electric generation facilities on Vancouver Island, B.C. Under the terms of the agreement, BC Hydro assumes full responsibility for all project costs. Outlook for 2005 Gulfstream Natural Gas System, L.L.C. In February 2005, Gulfstream placed into service its 110 mile Phase II natural gas pipeline extension, expanding its reach across Florida and facilitating the increase of long term firm service by 350 million cubic feet per day. Gulfstream now has the capacity of approximately 1.1 billion cubic feet per day. The cost for Phase II of the project is estimated at $200 million. Central New Jersey Expansion Project In February 2005, Transco received authorization from the FERC to construct and operate the Central New Jersey Expansion Project on its natural gas pipeline system. The expansion will provide an additional 105 Mdt/d of firm natural gas transportation service in Transcos northeastern market area. The estimated cost of the project is $13 million. The construction is scheduled to begin in the summer of 2005 and is expected to be placed into service in November 2005. Significant risk factors Significant risk factors that could affect the profitability of our Gas Pipeline segment include: legal and regulatory events such as FERC rate authorization and or rate case settlements (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), 58 Table of Contents market demand for expansion projects to increase revenue and segment profit, catastrophic events affecting our infrastructure, such as pipeline ruptures, and regulatory accounting changes regarding pipeline assessment costs. Year over year operating results The following discussions relate to the current continuing businesses of our Gas Pipeline segment which includes Transco, Northwest Pipeline and various joint venture projects. Certain assets sold during 2002 are included in the 2002 results. In addition, any gains or losses on the sale and results of operations related to Texas Gas, Central and Kern River are excluded and are reported within discontinued operations. Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 1,362.3 $ 1,368.3 $ 1,301.2 Segment profit $ 585.8 $ 555.5 $ 535.8 2004 vs. 2003 The $6 million decrease in Gas Pipeline revenues is due primarily to $25 million lower revenues associated with reimbursable costs, which are passed through to customers (offset in costs and operating expenses and general and administrative expenses) and $12 million lower revenues from the sale of environmental mitigation credits. These decreases were partially offset by $29 million higher transportation revenues and $7 million higher revenue from exchange imbalance settlements (offset in costs and operating expenses). The $29 million increase in transportation revenues is due primarily to $46 million higher revenue from expansion projects, partially offset by $17 million lower revenue from all other operations. The $17 million decrease is due primarily to $5 million lower commodity revenues at Transco and $9 million lower short term firm revenues at Northwest Pipeline. Costs and operating expenses decreased $2 million due primarily to $18 million lower recovery of reimbursable costs which are passed through to customers (offset in revenues); an $8.5 million reduction of expense related to adjustments to depreciation recognized in a prior period; an $8 million reduction of depreciation, depletion and amortization expense related to capitalized environmental mitigation credits; and the absence of a $4 million write off of certain receivables at Transco in 2003. These decreases were partially offset by $11 million higher maintenance expenses, $10 million higher fuel expense at Transco reflecting a reduction in pricing differentials on the volumes of gas used in operations as compared to 2003, $7 million higher gas exchange imbalance settlements (offset in revenues), and a $5 million increase in regulatory charges. General and administrative costs decreased $11 million, or nine percent, due primarily to $6 million lower reimbursable costs (offset in revenues) and $4 million lower rent resulting from the terms of a new office lease at Transco. Other (income) expense net in 2004 includes an approximate $9 million charge for the write off of previously capitalized costs incurred on an idled segment of Northwest Pipelines system that we determined will not be returned to service. Other (income) expense net in 2003 includes a $25.6 million charge at Northwest Pipeline to write off capitalized software development costs for a service delivery system following a decision not to implement and $7.2 million of income at Transco resulting from a reduction of accrued liabilities for claims associated with certain producers as a result of settlements and court rulings (see Royalty indemnifications in Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). 59 Table of Contents Summarized changes in Gas Pipelines segment profit The $30.3 million, or five percent, increase in segment profit, which includes equity earnings and income (loss) from investments is due to the following: the absence of the 2003 $25.6 million charge discussed above, $13.4 million higher equity earnings primarily from our investment in the Gulfstream Pipeline, $12 million higher revenues, excluding reimbursable costs that do not impact segment profit, and $5 million lower general and administrative expense, excluding reimbursable costs that do not impact segment profit. These increases to segment profit were partially offset by the following: a $9 million charge for the write off of previously capitalized costs discussed above, $9 million higher costs and operating expenses, excluding reimbursable costs that do not impact segment profit; and the absence of the 2003 $7.2 million of income resulting from a reduction of accrued liabilities discussed above. 2003 vs. 2002 The $67.1 million, or five percent, increase in revenues is due primarily to $61 million higher demand revenues on the Transco system resulting from new expansion projects (MarketLink, Momentum and Sundance) and higher rates approved under Transcos rate proceedings that became effective in late 2002 and $27 million on the Northwest Pipeline system resulting from new projects (Grays Harbor, Centralia, and Chehalis). Revenue also increased due to $14 million higher commodity revenue on Transco. Partially offsetting these increases was the absence in 2003 of $28 million of revenue from reductions in the rate refund liabilities and other adjustments associated with a rate case settlement on Transco in 2002 and $13 million lower storage demand revenues in 2003 due to lower storage rates in connection with Transcos rate proceedings that became effective in late 2002. Cost and operating expenses increased $21 million, or three percent, due primarily to $25 million higher depreciation expense due to additional property, plant and equipment placed into service and $12 million higher state sales and use, ad valorem and franchise taxes. These increases were partially offset by $15 million lower fuel expense on Transco, resulting primarily from pricing differentials on the volumes of gas used in operation. General and administrative costs decreased $32 million, or 20 percent, due primarily to the absence in 2003 of $23 million of early retirement pension costs recorded in 2002 and other employee related benefits costs associated with reduced employee levels as well as the absence of a $5 million write off in 2002 of capitalized software development costs resulting from cancellation of a project. Other (income) expense net in 2003 includes a $25.6 million charge at Northwest Pipeline to write off capitalized software development costs for a service delivery system. Subsequent to the implementation of the same system at Transco in the second quarter of 2003 and a determination of the unique and additional programming requirements that would be needed to complete the system at Northwest Pipeline, management determined that the system would not be implemented at Northwest Pipeline. Other (income) expense net in 2003 also includes $7.2 million of income at Transco due to a partial reduction of accrued liabilities for claims associated with certain producers as a result of settlements and court rulings. Other income (expense) net in 2002 includes a $17 million charge associated with a FERC penalty (see Investigations related to natural gas storage inventory in Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) and a $3.7 million loss on the sale of the Cove Point facility. 60 Table of Contents Summarized changes in Gas Pipelines segment profit The $19.7 million, or four percent, increase in segment profit, which includes equity earnings and income (loss) from investments, is due to the following favorable 2003 items: the $67.1 million increase in revenues, the $32 million decrease in general and administrative costs, the absence of a 2002 $17 million FERC charge discussed above; and the absence of the 2002 $12.3 million write off of Gas Pipelines investment in a cancelled pipeline project and a 2002 $10.4 million loss on the sale of Gas Pipelines 14.6 percent ownership interest in Alliance Pipeline. Both items were included in income (loss) from investment, which is included in Investing income (loss). These increases to segment profit were partially offset by the following: $73 million lower equity earnings, the $25.6 million charge at Northwest Pipeline to write off capitalized software costs discussed previously, the $21 million higher operating costs, and the absence of a 2002 $8.7 million gain on the sale of our general partnership interest in Northern Border Partners, L.P. The $73 million decrease to equity earnings reflects $24 million lower equity earnings from our investment in the Gulfstream Pipeline, the absence of a $27.4 million benefit in 2002 related to the contractual construction completion fee received by an equity affiliate and the absence of $19 million of equity earnings following the October 2002 sale of Gas Pipelines 14.6 percent ownership in Alliance Pipeline. The lower earnings from our investment in the Gulfstream Pipeline were primarily due to the absence in 2003 of interest capitalized on internally generated funds as allowed by the FERC during construction. The Gulfstream pipeline was placed into service during second quarter 2002. Exploration & Production Overview of 2004 In 2004, our strategy focused on expanding our development drilling program in order to surpass results experienced in prior years. We achieved this goal consistently throughout 2004 with our major accomplishments including the following: We increased daily production volumes by 27 percent from the beginning of the year. The domestic average daily production for the quarter ending December 31, 2004 was approximately 566 million cubic feet of gas equivalent (MMcfe) compared to 447 MMcfe for the same period in 2003. We increased our development drilling program throughout 2004, surpassing annual drilling capital expenditures prior to 2004 and more than doubling the expenditures occurring in 2003. Capital expenditures for domestic drilling activity in 2004 were approximately $436 million compared to approximately $200 million in 2003. We improved the timing and efficiency of our drilling cycle, particularly in the Piceance basin, by reducing the number of days to drill from eighteen to sixteen, thereby increasing the number of wells drilled during a given time period. The benefit of the higher production volumes was partially offset by increased operating costs and lower net average realized prices which were the result of increased derivative hedge losses in 2004. The increase in operating costs was the result of escalated overall production and maintenance activities among oil and gas producers, which caused service companies to increase their fees. 61 Table of Contents Outlook for 2005 Our expectations for 2005 include: a continuing development drilling program in our key basins with an increase in activity in the Piceance, San Juan, and Arkoma basins with associated planned capital expenditures of $500 million to $575 million in 2005; and increasing our fourth quarter 2004 average daily domestic production level of 566 MMcfe per day by at least ten percent by the end of 2005. Approximately 286 MMcfe of our forecasted 2005 daily domestic production of 600 to 700 MMcfe per day is hedged at prices that average $4.00 per MMcfe at a basin level. In addition, we have approximately 50 MMcfe of our daily estimated January 2005 through March 2005 production hedged in NYMEX collar agreements that have an average floor price of $7.50 per MMcfe and an average ceiling price of $10.49 per MMcfe at a basin level. Risks that we may not be able to accomplish our objectives include drilling rig availability as well as obtaining permits as planned for drilling. Year over year operating results The following discussions of the year over year results primarily relate to our continuing operations. However, the results do include those operations that were sold during 2003 or 2002 that did not qualify for discontinued operations reporting. The operations classified as discontinued operations are the properties in the Hugoton and Raton basins. Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 777.6 $ 779.7 $ 860.4 Segment profit $ 235.8 $ 401.4 $ 508.6 2004 vs. 2003 The $2.1 million, or less than one percent, decrease in revenues is primarily due to the absence of $24 million in income realized during 2003 from derivative instruments that did not qualify for hedge accounting, partially offset by an increase in domestic production revenues of $22 million during 2004. The increase in domestic production revenues primarily results from $49 million higher revenues associated with a nine percent increase in production volumes partially offset by $27 million lower revenues associated with a four percent decrease in net realized average prices for production sold. Net realized average prices include the effect of hedge positions which were at prices below market levels. The increase in production volumes primarily reflects an increase in the number of producing wells resulting from our successful 2004 drilling program. We expect production volumes to continue to increase in 2005 as our development drilling program continues. To manage the risk and volatility associated with the ownership of producing gas properties, we enter into derivative forward sales contracts that economically lock in a price relating to a portion of our future production. Approximately 77 percent of domestic production in 2004 was hedged at a weighted average price of $3.65 per MMcfe at a basin level. These hedges are executed with our Power segment which, in turn, executes offsetting derivative contracts with unrelated third parties. Generally, Power bears the counterparty performance risks associated with unrelated third parties. Hedging decisions are made considering our overall commodity risk exposure and are not executed independently by Exploration & Production. 62 Table of Contents Total costs and expenses increased $167 million, which includes the absence of $95 million in net gains on sales of assets occurring in 2003. The remaining increase in costs and expenses primarily reflects: $18 million higher depreciation, depletion and amortization expense primarily as a result of increased production volumes as well as increased capitalized drilling costs reflective of greater levels of drilling and increased prices for tubular goods occurring in response to supply conditions in the worldwide steel market; $20 million higher lease operating expense associated with the higher number of producing wells and an increase in well maintenance activities, higher labor and fuel costs, and an increase in overhead payments to another operator; $17 million higher operating taxes due primarily to increased production volumes sold; a $16 million gain attributable to the sales of securities, associated with a coal seam royalty trust, that were purchased for resale; and a $15.4 million loss provision regarding an ownership dispute on prior period production. The $165.6 million decrease in segment profit is due primarily to the absence of $95 million in net gains on sales of assets occurring in 2003, the increase in operating expenses, and the loss provision of $15.4 million relating to an ownership dispute on prior period production partially offset by the $16 million gain attributable to the sales of securities associated with our coal seam royalty trust that were purchased for resale. Segment profit also includes $25 million and $18 million related to international activities for 2004 and 2003, respectively. This increase is primarily driven by the improved operating results of Apco Argentina. 2003 vs. 2002 The $80.7 million, or nine percent decrease in revenues is due primarily to $66 million lower production revenues due to lower production volumes as the result of property sales and reduced drilling activities and $21 million lower other revenues primarily due to the absence in 2003 of deferred income relating to transactions in prior years that transferred certain economic benefits to a third party. The decrease in domestic production revenues reflects $68 million associated with an eleven percent decrease in net domestic production volumes, partially offset by $2 million higher revenues from increased net realized average prices for production. Net realized average prices include the effect of hedge positions. The decrease in production volumes primarily results from the sales of properties in 2002 and 2003 and the impact of reduced drilling activity. Drilling activity was lower in the January through August period of 2003 due to our capital constraints. During the third quarter, drilling activities on our retained properties began to increase and by the fourth quarter of 2003 returned to levels more consistent with 2002 levels. Approximately 86 percent of domestic production in 2003 was hedged using the same methodology discussed above. Total costs and expenses increased $32 million primarily due to $46 million lower net gains on sales of assets in 2003 as compared to 2002. The remaining variance in costs and expenses primarily reflects: $17 million lower exploration expenses reflecting our focus of the company on developing proved properties while reducing exploratory activities; $10 million lower depreciation, depletion and amortization expense primarily as a result of lower production volumes; $7 million lower selling, general and administrative expense; and $19 million higher operating taxes due primarily to higher market prices. The $107.2 million decrease in segment profit is due primarily to $46 million lower net gains on sales of assets in 2003 as compared to 2002, as discussed above. Additionally, lower production revenues due primarily to lower production volumes also contributed to the decrease. Segment profit also includes $18.2 million and $11.8 million related to international activities for 2003 and 2002, respectively. This increase is primarily driven by the improved operating results of Apco Argentina. 63 Table of Contents Midstream Gas & Liquids Overview of 2004 In 2004, we continued to expand our Midstream operations where we have large scale assets that are positioned in growth basins and to divest less strategic assets. Consistent with this plan, we placed into service additional infrastructure in the deepwater offshore area of the Gulf of Mexico and expanded the Opal gas processing facility in Wyoming. In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the Devils Tower production handling facility, the Canyon Chief gas pipeline, and the Mountaineer oil pipeline began flowing product in May 2004, while the Gunnison oil pipeline volumes increased throughout the year. Our ongoing focus is to develop and operate large scale Midstream infrastructure where our assets can be fully utilized and provide the highest level of reliability to our customers. The following factors impacted our business during 2004. Substantial Completion of Our Asset Sales Goals In 2004, we completed our asset sales program. The July sale of the western Canadian straddle plants represented our most significant divestiture of 2004 yielding approximately $544 million in U.S. funds. The estimated pre tax gain on sale of approximately $190 million was recognized in discontinued operations in the third quarter. Favorable Commodity Price Margins Our natural gas liquids (NGL) margins benefited from a significant increase in crude oil prices and an increased demand for petrochemical feedstocks such as ethane and propane. As indicated in the graph below, our quarterly margins exceeded the historical five year annual average throughout the second half of 2004. Our gas processing facilities produced strong financial results as a result of near record high NGL margins and operated at full capacity throughout most of the year. Our olefins businesses also benefited from favorable commodity prices associated with additional demand for ethylene and propylene. Impact of Hurricane Ivan In September 2004, portions of our Gulf Coast operations were interrupted by Hurricane Ivan. The Mobile Bay gas processing plant, Canyon Station and Devils Tower platforms were located in the path of the hurricane and incurred varying levels of damage. Hurricane Ivan caused temporary shut downs of both our facilities and producers facilities, which reduced product flows resulting in lower segment profit of approximately $11 million in 2004. The majority of the repairs related to Hurricane Ivan are expected to be covered by our insurance. Repairs to the Devils Tower facility were completed in October 2004 while our other impacted assets were returned to service by the end of September 2004. However, product flows to our deepwater 64 Table of Contents facilities were reduced significantly during the fourth quarter as incidental damage to our customers facilities was being repaired. Gulf Liquids Reclassification to Continuing Operations During fourth quarter 2004, we reclassified the operations of Gulf Liquids to continuing operations within our Midstream segment in accordance with EITF Issue No. 03 13, Applying the Conditions in Paragraph 42 of FASB Statement No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, in Determining Whether to Report Discontinued Operations, (EITF 03 13). Under the provisions of EITF 03 13, Gulf Liquids no longer qualifies for reporting as discontinued operations based on managements expectation that we will continue to have significant commercial activity with the disposed entity. All periods presented reflect this restatement. Gulf Liquids Insurance Arbitration Award During fourth quarter 2004, an arbitration panel awarded Gulf Liquids $93.6 million, plus interest of $9.6 million. Prior to this judgment, the insurer had disputed coverage of certain financial assurances provided to Gulf Liquids on multiple construction contracts. Compliance with FERC Order 2004 Effective June 1, 2004, and due in part to our response to FERC Order 2004, management and decision making control of certain regulated gas gathering assets was transferred from our Midstream segment to our Gas Pipeline segment. We also requested a waiver from the FERC regarding compliance with FERC Order 2004 for the operation of Discovery Gas Transmission and Black Marlin assets. In July 2004, the FERC granted a partial waiver allowing our Midstream segment to continue to manage these assets without subjecting Midstream to energy affiliate status under FERC Order 2004. In order to comply with the remaining provisions of the FERC order, we determined it was necessary to transfer management of our equity investment in the Aux Sable processing plant to our Power segment. This transfer was effective September 21, 2004. All periods presented reflect these classifications. Outlook for 2005 The following factors could impact our business in 2005 and beyond. As evidenced in recent years, natural gas and crude oil markets are highly volatile. Although NGL margins earned at our gas processing plants in 2004 were very favorable, we expect unit margins in 2005 to trend downward towards historical averages. NGL production volumes at our facilities are expected to be at or above levels of previous years due to continued strong drilling activities in our core basins. We are planning to expand our investment in the Wamsutter gathering system in 2005 and 2006. Our olefins unit margins were also favorable in 2004. While we believe this trend should continue in the near term, olefins margins are highly volatile and levels in 2004 are not necessarily indicative of levels expected for 2005. However, a fire at a Canadian oil sands facility that supplies us with off gas feedstock reduced our throughput in January 2005. We expect this throughput reduction to continue through late 2005, partially offsetting the expected favorable margins. Continued growth in the deepwater areas of the Gulf of Mexico is expected to contribute to, and become a larger component of, our future segment revenues and segment profit. We expect these additional fee based revenues to lower our proportionate exposure to commodity price risks. We continue efforts to sell our Gulf Liquids refinery off gas and propylene splitting business in Louisiana and anticipate closing by the end of the second quarter of 2005. 65 Table of Contents Period over period results Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 2,882.6 $ 2,784.8 $ 1,183.7 Segment profit (loss) Domestic Gathering & Processing 342.7 272.9 203.5 Venezuela 83.4 74.9 75.4 Other 123.6 (150.5 ) (106.7 ) Total $ 549.7 $ 197.3 $ 172.2 2004 vs. 2003 The $97.8 million increase in Midstreams revenues is primarily the result of favorable commodity prices on our gas processing and olefins businesses, largely offset by lower trading revenues resulting from the fourth quarter 2003 sale of our wholesale propane business. Revenues associated with production of NGLs increased $417 million, of which $214 million is due to higher volumes and $203 million is due to higher NGL prices. Olefins revenues increased $223 million as a result of both higher market prices and higher volumes. In addition, our deepwater service revenues increased $9 million due to the addition of new infrastructure. Other factors affecting total revenues include approximately $1 billion in lower trading revenues resulting from the fourth quarter 2003 sale of our wholesale propane business, partially offset by a $263 million increase as the result of marketing NGLs on behalf of our customers. Before 2004, our purchases of customers NGLs were netted within revenues. In 2004, these purchases of customers NGLs are included in costs and operating expenses which substantially offset the change in revenues. Of this $263 million increase, approximately $146 million results from the difference in financial reporting presentation; the remaining increase is due to higher NGL volumes and prices. Also partially offsetting the lower trading revenues is $141 million in higher crude sales associated with the 2004 startup of one of our deepwater pipelines, which is offset in costs and operating expenses below. Costs and operating expenses decreased $56 million primarily as a result of approximately $1 billion in lower trading costs due to the sale of our wholesale propane business in 2003. This decline was partially offset by $312 million in higher costs related to the production of NGLs and $157 million in higher costs related to the production of olefins products. These costs increased as a result of both the higher production volumes noted above and the higher prices for natural gas and olefins feedstock. Maintenance and depreciation expenses increased $33 million in large part due to newly constructed deepwater assets. Similar to the impact to revenues, total costs and operating expenses increased $263 million due to the marketing of NGLs on behalf of customers and $141 million in higher crude purchases related to the same deepwater pipeline mentioned above. The $352.4 million increase in Midstream segment profit includes the $93.6 million gain from the Gulf Liquids insurance arbitration award in 2004 and the absence of a $108.7 million impairment charge in 2003 related to these same assets both of which are included in Other (income) expense net, within operating income. The remaining increase in segment profit is primarily due to higher NGL and olefins production volume and unit margins, higher service revenues, and reduced general and administrative expenses. These increases are partially offset by higher operating expenses and asset impairment charges. A more detailed analysis of segment profit of Midstreams various operations is presented below. Domestic Gathering & Processing: The $69.8 million increase in domestic gathering and processing segment profit includes a $59.6 million increase in the West region and an $10.2 million increase in the Gulf Coast region. 66 Table of Contents The $59.6 million increase in our West regions segment profit reflects higher NGL volume and unit margins offset by lower fee revenues and higher operating expenses. The significant components of this increase are explained below. Our West regions net NGL margins for 2004 increased $69 million compared to the same period in 2003. Net NGL margins are defined as NGL revenues less BTU replacement cost, plant fuel, transportation and fractionation expense. Average per unit NGL margins increased 49 percent and comprised $51 million of the increase in NGL margins. As a result of the higher spread between the prices of NGLs and natural gas, our West plants operated at near capacity and produced 21 percent higher volumes comprising the remaining $18 million increase in NGL net margins. The $10.2 million increase in our Gulf Coast regions segment profit is due to higher NGL margins partially offset by lower fee revenues and higher depreciation expense. The significant components of the net increase include the following. Net NGL margins at our Gulf Coast gas processing plants increased $35 million due to a 101 percent increase in NGL production volumes which represented $28 million of the increase in margins. The significantly higher NGL volumes were driven by the favorable spread between NGL and natural gas prices coupled with the recently completed production handling infrastructure flowing additional deepwater gas production to our plants. Per unit margins in the Gulf Coast region increased 13 percent and comprised the remaining $7 million increase in net NGL margins. Segment profit from our deepwater assets declined $21 million primarily due to $29 million in higher costs associated with assets placed into service in the first two quarters of 2004 partially offset by $9 million in higher services revenues. The increase in revenues includes $22 million in incremental revenues from newly constructed assets partially offset by a $13 million decline in handling and gathering revenues due to lower production volumes on other deepwater assets substantially resulting from the effects of Hurricane Ivan. While revenues from the Devils Tower deepwater facility are recognized as volumes are delivered over the life of the reserves, cash payments from our customer are based on a contractual fixed fee received over a defined term. As a result, $36 million of cash received, which is included in cash flow from operations, was deferred at December 31, 2004 and will be recognized as revenue in future periods. Venezuela: The $8.5 million increase in segment profit for our Venezuelan assets is primarily due to the absence of a fire at the El Furrial facility that reduced revenues by $10 million in the first quarter of 2003. Other: The $274.1 million increase in segment profit in our other businesses includes the $93.6 million Gulf Liquids insurance arbitration award and the absence of $108.7 million in Gulf Liquids impairment charges in 2003. The remaining increase is comprised of the following. Combined margins from our olefins businesses improved $66 million reflecting the overall improvement in olefins pricing and higher production volumes. Market prices for ethylene and propylene products increased due to higher demand and lower inventories. Production volumes increased as a result of increased spot sales and the new higher fixed margin contract at our Giesmar facility while our Canadian and Gulf Liquids volumes benefited from improved plant operations. Selling, general and administrative expenses declined $23 million largely due to asset sales and lower legal expenses. The favorable variances above are partially offset by a 2004 $16.9 million impairment charge related to our equity investment in the Discovery partnership, reflecting managements assessment that there has been an other than temporary decline in the value of this investment. 2003 vs. 2002 Revenues increased $1.6 billion primarily as a result of adopting EITF 02 3, which changed how we report natural gas liquids trading activities. The costs of such activities are no longer reported as reductions in revenues. EITF 02 3 does not require restatement of prior year amounts. In addition to this effect, our 67 Table of Contents revenues increased $210 million primarily due to higher NGL revenues at our gas processing plants as a result of moderate market price increases, partially offset by lower NGL production volumes. Additional fee revenues associated with newly constructed deepwater assets and higher olefins sales also contributed to the revenue increase. Costs and operating expenses also increased $1.9 billion primarily due to the adoption of EITF 02 3 as discussed in the previous paragraph. In addition to this effect, costs and expenses increased $360 million, of which $113 million is attributable to rising market prices for natural gas used to replace the heating value of NGLs extracted at our gas processing facilities. Feedstock purchases for the olefins facilities increased $214 million due to higher NGL and gas prices as well as higher purchase volumes. Segment profit increased $25.1 million and includes impairment charges of $108.7 million in 2003 related to the Gulf Liquids facilities and $78.2 million in 2002 relating to the Redwater/ Fort McMurray olefins assets. The remaining $55.6 million increase is largely attributable to higher deepwater and other Gulf Coast fee revenues partially offset by unfavorable results in our Canadian and Gulf olefins operations. Segment profit benefited from increased processing margins in both 2003 and 2002 due to rising NGL prices coupled with depressed natural gas prices in the Wyoming area. In contrast, Canadian and Gulf olefins production margins suffered as market prices for ethane and propane feedstocks increased more than those for the olefins produced at these facilities, which lowered operating results. In addition, gains on asset and investment sales, reduced selling, general and administrative expenses, and gathering system net gains are offset by lower partnership earnings and higher depreciation expense. A more detailed analysis of segment profit of our various operations is presented below: Domestic Gathering & Processing: The $69.4 million increase in domestic gathering and processing segment profit includes a $76.1 million increase in the Gulf Coast region, partially offset by a $6.7 million decline in the West region. The Gulf Coast regions $76 million improvement is largely attributable to $42 million of incremental segment profit associated with new infrastructure in the deepwater area of the Gulf of Mexico. The Canyon Station production platform, Seahawk gas gathering pipeline, and Banjo oil transportation system were placed into service during the latter half of 2002 and each contributed to Midstreams segment profit. The remaining Gulf Coast gathering and processing assets provided approximately $34 million in additional net revenues, primarily from $12 million in higher processing margins and $23 million in higher fee based revenues. A portion of this increase relates to the temporary processing agreements which allow producers gas to be processed to achieve pipeline quality standards. The West regions $6.7 million segment profit decline reflects the absence of $7 million in operating profit associated with the Kansas Hugoton gathering system sold in August 2002. Although 2003 segment profit is comparable to 2002, the West regions segment results were impacted by several offsetting factors discussed below. Gas processing margins declined $10 million compared to margins experienced in 2002. Throughout 2002 and the first quarter of 2003, rising NGL prices and depressed Wyoming natural gas prices yielded very favorable processing margins. Wyoming natural gas prices rebounded at the end of the first quarter 2003 as the completion of the Kern River Pipeline system added transportation capacity relieving downward price pressure. Margins recovered somewhat in the fourth quarter as Wyoming gas prices lagged behind the increases in other energy commodities. Gathering and processing fee revenues declined $11 million primarily due to fewer customers electing the fee based billing option of processing contracts. Non reimbursed fuel expenses declined $8 million, largely attributed to favorable adjustments in the annual fuel reimbursement rates. We realized $17 million in non recurring net product gains related to our gas gathering system. These gains represent less than one third of one percent of total gas gathered and are within industry 68 Table of Contents standards. Historically our gathering system realizes net gains and losses, and therefore, we do not consider these gains to be recurring in nature. Depreciation expense was $10 million higher in large part due to additional investments in the West region. Venezuela: Segment profit for our Venezuelan assets remained virtually unchanged. Higher compression rates in 2003 and the 2002 currency exchange loss resulted in $11 million higher profits at the PIGAP gas compression facility. These higher profits were partially offset by an $10 million decrease in the El Furrial revenues attributed to plant downtime caused by a fire that occurred in the first quarter of 2003. Also offsetting the increase in PIGAP operating profit is a $4 million decline resulting from the termination of the Jose Terminal operations contract in December 2002. Our Venezuelan assets were constructed and are currently operated for the exclusive benefit of Petroleos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA), the state owned Petroleum Corporation of Venezuela. The Venezuelan economic and political environment can be volatile, but has not significantly impacted the operations and cash flows of our facilities. Effective February 7, 2004, the Venezuelan government revalued the fixed exchange rate for their local currency from 1,600 Bolivars to the dollar to 1,920 Bolivars to the dollar. This effect of this currency devaluation was recorded in the first quarter of 2004 and did not have a significant impact on our first quarter segment profit. Other: The $43.8 million decline in segment profit for Midstreams other operations includes impairment charges of $108.7 million in 2003 related to the Gulf Liquids facilities and the absence of $78.2 million of profit in 2002 relating to the Redwater/ Fort McMurray olefins assets. The remaining decrease is attributed to lower domestic olefins margins and unfavorable partnership earnings, partially offset by the gain on sale of our wholesale propane operations as discussed below. Excluding impairment charges, segment profit for our olefins businesses declined $26 million primarily as a result of reduced olefins margins as the price of ethane, propane, and natural gas feedstocks increased more than the price of olefins products. Higher maintenance expenses also contributed to the decline in segment profit. Olefins production margins continue to be impacted by weak consumer demand for products produced by petrochemical facilities. Segment profit from partially owned domestic assets accounted for using the equity method remained largely unchanged and includes $21 million lower earnings from partially owned investments primarily resulting from $13 million in prior period accounting adjustments recorded on the Discovery partnership and the 2003 sale of other investments that generated $5 million in higher 2002 earnings. These unfavorable results were partially offset by net gains totaling approximately $20 million from the sale of our interests in the West Texas, Rio Grande, Wilprise, and Tri States liquids pipeline partnerships. Segment profit for our trading, fractionation, and storage group increased $14 million primarily due to a $16 million gain on the fourth quarter 2003 sale of our wholesale propane business consisting of certain supply contracts and seven propane distribution terminals. Our NGL trading operations activities were substantially curtailed in 2003, resulting in $11 million lower selling, general, and administrative costs partially offset by $8 million in lower net trading revenues. In addition, NGL service fees declined $5 million due to the sale of several NGL terminals in 2002. Other Overview of 2004 During February 2004, we were a party to a recapitalization plan completed by Longhorn. As a result of this plan, we sold a portion of our equity investment in Longhorn for $11.4 million, received $58 million in repayment of a portion of our advances to Longhorn and converted the remaining advances, including accrued interest, into preferred equity interests in Longhorn. These preferred equity interests are subordinate to the preferred interests held by the new investors. No gain or loss was recognized on this transaction. 69 Table of Contents Outlook for 2005 In 2005, we expect to see improved results from our investment in Longhorn. The first product shipments on the Longhorn pipeline occurred in December 2004 and volumes should increase throughout 2005. New shippers have been approved and more approvals are currently in process. In addition, during the first quarter of 2005, we finalized a sales agreement on our Longhorn operating agreement. The sale is expected to close during the first quarter or early in the second quarter of 2005. We expect to receive proceeds on the sale over the remaining term of the operating agreement, which expires on June 30, 2012. We do not expect to recognize a gain or loss on the sale. Year over year operating results Years Ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 32.8 $ 72.0 $ 124.1 Segment profit (loss) $ (41.6 ) $ (50.5 ) $ 14.1 2004 vs. 2003 Other segment revenues for 2003 includes approximately $22 million of revenues related to certain butane blending assets, which were sold during third quarter 2003. Other segment loss for 2004 includes $11.8 million of accrued environmental remediation expense associated with the Augusta refinery, and a $10.8 million impairment, $9.8 million of equity losses, and $6.5 million of net unreimbursed advisory fees, all related to our investment in Longhorn. The environmental accrual results from new information obtained in the fourth quarter of 2004. The impairment charge reflects managements belief that there was an other than temporary decline in the fair value of this investment following a determination that additional funding would be required to commission the pipeline into service. The project incurred cost overruns in preparation for commissioning, including higher priced line fill costs. The net unreimbursed advisory fees relate to the recapitalization of Longhorn as discussed above. If the project achieves certain future performance measures, the unreimbursed fees may be recovered. Other segment loss for 2003 includes a $43.1 million impairment related to our investment in equity and debt securities of Longhorn. The impairment resulted from our assessment that there had been an other than temporary decline in the fair value of this investment. 2003 vs. 2002 Other segment loss for 2003 includes the $43.1 million impairment of Longhorn noted above. Longhorn equity earnings increased $15.7 million during 2003 from a loss of $13.8 million in 2002. The 2002 segment profit includes a $58.5 million gain on the sale of our 27 percent ownership interest in the Lithuanian operations partially offset by a $12.6 million equity loss for those operations. 70 Table of Contents Energy trading activities As of December 31, 2002, we held all of these energy and energy related contracts for trading purposes and carried them on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value. With the adoption of EITF 02 3 on January 1, 2003, we reversed approximately $1.2 billion of non derivative fair value through a cumulative adjustment from a change in accounting principle. These contracts are now accounted for under the accrual method. Effective January 1, 2003, only energy contracts meeting the definition of a derivative are reflected at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Fair value of trading and non trading derivatives The chart below reflects the fair value of derivatives held for trading purposes as of December 31, 2004. We have presented the fair value of assets and liabilities by the period in which we expect them to be realized. Net Assets (Liabilities) (Millions) To be To be To be To be Realized in Realized in Realized in Realized in 1 12 Months 13 36 Months 36 60 Months 61 120 Months Net Fair (Year 1) (Years 2 3) (Years 4 5) (Years 6 10) Value $ 15 $ 16 $ (3 ) $ (2 ) $ 26 As the table above illustrates, we are not materially engaged in trading activities. However, we hold a substantial portfolio of non trading derivative contracts. Non trading derivative contracts are those that hedge or could possibly hedge on an economic basis forecasted transactions associated with Powers long term structured contract position and owned generation, Exploration & Productions forecasted sales of natural gas production, as well as the activities of our other segments. As a result of our decision to retain the Power business, in the fourth quarter of 2004 we designated a portion of the existing derivatives as SFAS 133 cash flow hedges. Many of these non trading derivatives had an existing fair value prior to their designation as cash flow hedges. Certain other of Powers derivatives have not been designated as or do not qualify as SFAS 133 hedges. We also hold certain derivative contracts, which also qualify as SFAS 133 cash flow hedges, that primarily hedge Exploration & Productions forecasted natural gas sales. The chart below reflects the fair value of derivatives held for non trading purposes as of December 31, 2004. Of the total fair value of non trading derivatives, SFAS 133 cash flow hedges had a net liability value of $328.8 million as of December 31, 2004, which includes the fair value of the derivatives upon their designation as SFAS 133 cash flow hedges. Net Assets (Liabilities) (Millions) To be To be To be To be To be Realized in Realized in Realized in Realized in Realized in 1 12 Months 13 36 Months 36 60 Months 61 120 Months 121+ Months Net Fair (Year 1) (Years 2 3) (Years 4 5) (Years 6 10) (Years 11+) Value $ 89 $ 120 $ 108 $ 44 $ 4 $ 365 Methods of estimating fair value Most of the derivatives we hold settle in active periods and markets in which quoted market prices are available. Quoted market prices in active markets are readily available for valuing, future contracts, swap agreements and physical commodity purchases and sales in the commodity markets in which we transact. While an active market may not exist for the entire period, quoted prices can generally be obtained for natural gas through 2012 and power through 2010. These prices reflect the economic and regulatory conditions that currently exist in the marketplace and are subject to change in the near term due to changes in market conditions. The availability of quoted market prices in active markets varies between periods and commodities based upon changes in market conditions. 71 Table of Contents The ability to obtain quoted market prices also varies greatly from region to region. The time periods noted above are an estimation of aggregate liquidity. An immaterial portion of our total net derivative value of $391 million relates to periods in which active quotes cannot be obtained. We use prices of current transactions to further validate price estimates. However, the decline in overall market liquidity since 2002 has limited our ability to validate prices. We estimate energy commodity prices in illiquid periods by incorporating information about commodity prices in actively quoted markets, quoted prices in less active markets, and other market fundamental analysis. Due to the adoption of EITF 02 3, modeling and other valuation techniques are not used significantly in determining the fair value of our derivatives. Such techniques were primarily used in previous years for valuing non derivative contracts such as transportation, storage, full requirements, load serving, transmission and power tolling contracts, which are no longer reported at fair value (see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Counterparty credit considerations We include an assessment of the risk of counterparty non performance in our estimate of fair value for all contracts. Such assessment considers 1) the credit rating of each counterparty as represented by public rating agencies such as Standard & Poors and Moodys Investors Service, 2) the inherent default probabilities within these ratings, 3) the regulatory environment that the contract is subject to and 4) the terms of each individual contract. Risks surrounding counterparty performance and credit could ultimately impact the amount and timing of expected cash flows. We continually assess this risk. We have credit protection within various agreements to call on additional collateral support if necessary. At December 31, 2004, we held collateral support of $336 million. We also enter into netting agreements to mitigate counterparty performance and credit risk. During 2004, we did not incur any significant losses due to recent counterparty bankruptcy filings. The gross credit exposure from our derivative contracts as of December 31, 2004 is summarized below. Investment Counterparty Type Grade(a) Total (Millions) Gas and electric utilities $ 556.4 $ 609.4 Energy marketers and traders 1,185.7 3,268.3 Financial institutions 2,023.9 2,023.9 Integrated gas and oil 90.0 90.0 Other 5.6 21.1 $ 3,861.6 6,012.7 Credit reserves (26.4 ) Gross credit exposure from derivatives(b) $ 5,986.3 72 Table of Contents We assess our credit exposure on a net basis. The net credit exposure from our derivatives as of December 31, 2004 is summarized below. Investment Counterparty Type Grade(a) Total (Millions) Gas and electric utilities $ 93.4 $ 119.8 Energy marketers and traders 454.9 613.3 Financial institutions 217.4 217.4 Other 1.1 1.6 $ 766.8 952.1 Credit reserves (26.4 ) Net credit exposure from derivatives(b) $ 925.7 (a) We determine investment grade primarily using publicly available credit ratings. We included counterparties with a minimum Standard & Poors rating of BBB or Moodys Investors Service rating of Baa3 in investment grade. We also classify counterparties that have provided sufficient collateral, such as cash, standby letters of credit, adequate parent company guarantees, and property interests, as investment grade. (b) One counterparty within the California power market represents more than ten percent of the derivative assets and is included in investment grade. Standard & Poors and Moodys Investors Service do not currently rate this counterparty. We included this counterparty in the investment grade column based upon contractual credit requirements. Trading Policy We have policies and procedures that govern our trading and risk management activities and transactions. These policies cover authority and delegation thereof in addition to control requirements, authorized commodities and term and exposure limitations. Powers value at risk is limited in aggregate and calculated at a 95 percent confidence level. 73 Table of Contents Financial condition and liquidity Liquidity Overview of 2004 Entering 2003, we faced significant liquidity challenges with sizeable maturing debt obligations and limited financial flexibility due in part to covenants arising from 2002 short term financing. In February 2003, we outlined our planned business strategy to address these issues. During 2003, we made substantial progress in strengthening our finances by generating cash proceeds of approximately $3.0 billion from asset sales, retiring $3.2 billion in debt, redeeming $275 million in preferred stock and issuing $2 billion in debt at more favorable market rates. In 2004, we continued to execute certain components of the plan. Our key results for 2004 include the following. The replacement of our cash collateralized letter of credit and revolver facility with facilities that do not encumber cash. Completion of planned asset sales, which resulted in proceeds of approximately $877.8 million (see further discussion in Investing activities). Significant debt reduction of approximately $4 billion in 2004 through scheduled maturities and early redemptions, including an exchange offer for our FELINE PACS units (see further discussion in Financing activities). Reduction of the risk and liquidity requirements of our Power business. As discussed previously, our Board of Directors approved the decision to retain Power and end our efforts to exit that business. We have and will continue to manage this business to minimize financial risk, generate cash and manage existing contractual commitments. During 2004, we reduced risk through the sale, termination or expiration of certain contracts and through entering into new contracts that economically hedge existing positions. Additional net reduction of $33 million in our selling, general and administrative costs and general corporate expenses. In an effort to further reduce costs in the future, we entered into an agreement with IBM to provide support services for certain areas of our business as discussed previously. Sources of liquidity Our liquidity is derived from both internal and external sources. Certain of those sources are available to us (at the parent level) and others are available to certain of our subsidiaries. At December 31, 2004, we have the following sources of liquidity from cash and cash equivalents: cash equivalent investments at the corporate level of $735 million as compared to $2.2 billion at December 31, 2003, and cash and cash equivalent investments of various international and domestic entities of $195 million, as compared to $91 million at December 31, 2003 At December 31, 2004, we have capacity of $28 million available under our two unsecured revolving credit facilities totaling $500 million. In April 2004, we entered into two unsecured bank revolving credit facilities totaling $500 million. These facilities provide for both borrowings and letters of credit, but are used primarily for issuing letters of credit. Use of these new facilities released approximately $496 million of restricted cash, restricted investments and margin deposits in the second quarter. In January 2005, these facilities were terminated and replaced with two new facilities that contain similar terms but fewer restrictions (see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). At December 31, 2004, we also have capacity of $853 million available under our $1.275 billion secured revolving facility. On May 3, 2004, we entered into a new three year, $1 billion secured revolving credit facility 74 Table of Contents which is available for borrowings and letters of credit. In August 2004, we expanded the credit facility by an additional $275 million. Northwest Pipeline and Transco each have access to $400 million under the facility, which is secured by certain Midstream assets and guaranteed by Williams Gas Pipeline Company, LLC, the parent company of Transco and Northwest Pipeline (WGP) (see Note 11 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). At December 31, 2003, we had capacity of $447 million available under the $800 million revolving and letter of credit facility which was terminated on May 3, 2004. We have an effective shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission that authorizes us to issue an additional $2.2 billion of a variety of debt and equity securities. In addition, our wholly owned subsidiaries, Northwest Pipeline and Transco, also have outstanding registration statements filed with approximately $350 million of shelf availability remaining under these registration statements at December 31, 2004. Our ability to utilize these registration statements for debt securities was restricted by certain covenants of our debt agreements at December 31, 2004. On January 20, 2005, this restriction was removed from the parent and from Transco with the replacement of our two unsecured revolving credit facilities (see Note 11 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Interest rates, market conditions, and industry conditions will affect amounts raised, if any, in the capital markets. During 2004, we satisfied liquidity needs with: $1.1 billion in cash generated from sales of investments, property, and other assets, including the sale of the Alaska refinery and related assets and the sale of the Canadian straddle plants; approximately $1.5 billion in cash generated from operating activities of continuing operations, including the release of approximately $212 million of restricted cash and margin deposits previously used to collateralize certain credit facilities; and the release of approximately $284 million of restricted investments previously used to collateralize certain credit facilities. Credit ratings As part of executing the business plan announced in February 2003, we established a goal of returning to investment grade ratios. Our decision to remain in the Power business could delay that goal. Our Standard and Poors, Moodys Investors Service (Moodys), and Fitch Ratings (Fitch) debt ratings at December 31, 2004 are as follows. Current Senior Unsecured Debt Ratings Northwest Williams Pipeline Transco Standard & Poors B+ B+ B+ Moodys Investors Service B1 Ba2 Ba2 Fitch Ratings BB BB+ BB+ On July 30, 2004, Standard & Poors raised our debt ratings outlook from negative to stable citing our debt reduction efforts. With respect to Standard & Poors, a rating of BBB or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below BBB indicates that the security has significant speculative characteristics. A B rating indicates that Standard and Poors believes the issuer has the capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation, but that adverse business, financial or economic conditions will likely impair the obligors capacity or willingness to meet its financial commitment to the obligation. Standard and Poors may modify its ratings with a + or a sign to show the obligors relative standing within a major rating category. On November 8, 2004, Moodys Investors Service raised our senior implied rating to Ba3 from B2 and our senior unsecured rating to B1 from B3, with a stable outlook. With respect to Moodys, a rating of Baa or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below Baa is considered to have speculative 75 Table of Contents elements. A Ba ranking indicates an obligation that is judged to have speculative elements and is subject to substantial credit risk. A B rating from Moodys signifies an obligation that is considered speculative and is subject to high credit risk. The 1, 2 and 3 modifiers show the relative standing within a major category. A 1 indicates that an obligation ranks in the higher end of the broad rating category, 2 indicating a mid range ranking, and 3 ranking at the lower end of the category. On December 10, 2004, Fitch raised our senior unsecured rating to BB from B+ and revised the ratings outlook to stable from positive. With respect to Fitch, a rating of BBB or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below BBB is considered speculative grade. A BB rating from Fitch indicates that there is a possibility of credit risk developing, particularly as the result of adverse economic change over time; however, business or financial alternatives may be available to allow financial commitments to be met. Fitch may add a + or a sign to show the obligors relative standing within a major rating category. As our financial ratios improve and we continue to reduce debt in line with forecasts, our ratings could improve. Improved ratings could result in lower borrowing costs. However, if our financial ratios do not meet expected levels, the outlook and the rating could decline. Our historical debt to capitalization ratios and our forecasted amount for 2005 are shown below. Expected 2002 2003 2004 2005 Debt to Capitalization* 72.3% 74.5% 61.6% 59% 60% * Debt includes Long term debt and Long term debt due within one year. Capitalization includes debt as calculated above plus Stockholders equity. Off balance sheet financing arrangements and guarantees of debt or other commitments to third parties As discussed in Sources of liquidity, in April 2004, we entered into two unsecured bank revolving credit facilities totaling $500 million. We were able to obtain the unsecured credit facilities because the funding bank syndicated its associated credit risk into the institutional investor market. Upon the occurrence of certain credit events, letters of credit outstanding under the agreement become cash collateralized, creating a borrowing under the facilities. Concurrently, the bank can deliver the facilities to the institutional investors, whereby the investors replace the bank as lender under the facilities. To facilitate the syndication of the facilities, the bank established trusts funded by the institutional investors. The assets of the trusts serve as collateral to reimburse the bank for our borrowings in the event the facilities are delivered to the investors. We have no asset securitization or collateral requirements under the new facilities. During the second quarter, use of these new facilities released approximately $496 million of restricted cash, restricted investments and margin deposits. In January 2005, these facilities were terminated and replaced with two new facilities that contain similar terms but fewer restrictions (see Note 11 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements). We have various guarantees which are disclosed in Notes 3, 10, 11, 14 and 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We do not believe these guarantees or the possible fulfillment of them will negatively impact our liquidity. Operating activities The increase in cash flow from operations from 2003 to 2004 is primarily due to: the increase in cash flow from changes in accounts payable of $512 million, the increase in cash flow from changes in derivatives and energy risk management and trading assets and liabilities of $190 million, the reduction of margin deposit requirements of $170 million, and the improvement in Income (loss) from continuing operations of $151 million. 76 Table of Contents Lower margin deposit funding requirements in 2004, facilitated by letter of credit issues, resulted in higher cash inflow in 2004. In addition, positive cash flows resulting from the settlement of derivative contracts contributed to higher cash inflow primarily from Power in 2004. The increase in cash flows from operations were largely offset by a decrease in cash flow from changes in accounts receivable of $434 million, due primarily to the operation of Powers managed assets. Additionally, on November 1, 2004, Winterthur remitted approximately $85 million to us in the settlement of certain disputes regarding insurance obligations under construction contracts (see Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The increase in funds from noncurrent restricted cash of $124.5 million in 2004 is primarily due to the release of cash held as collateral for various surety bonds. We recorded approximately $86.7 million, $231.9 million and $399.1 million in provisions for losses on property and other assets in 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. We also recorded net gain on disposition of assets of $18.1 million, $142.8 million, and $190.4 million, in 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively (see Notes 3 and 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). In 2003, we recorded an accrual for fixed rate interest included in the secured note payable of Williams Production RMT company (the RMT Note) on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows representing the quarterly non cash reclassification of the deferred fixed rate interest from an accrued liability to the RMT Note. The Amortization of deferred set up fee and fixed rate interest on the RMT Note relates to amounts recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Operations as interest expense, but which were not payable until maturity. The RMT Note was repaid in May 2003. In March 2002, WilTel exercised its option to purchase certain network assets under a transaction for which we had previously provided a guarantee. On March 29, 2002, as guarantor under the agreement, we paid $753.9 million related to WilTels purchase of these network assets. Other, including changes in noncurrent assets and liabilities, includes contributions to our tax qualified pension plans of $136.8 million, $42.8 million and $77.0 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. It is our policy to fund our tax qualified pension plans the greater of the actuarially computed annual normal cost plus any unfunded actuarial accrued liability, amortized over approximately five years, or the minimum required contribution under existing tax laws. Additional amounts may be contributed to increase the funded status of the plans. In an effort to strengthen our funded status and take advantage of very strong cash flows, we contributed approximately $98.9 million more than our funding policy required in 2004. Financing activities During 2004, we made significant progress on our plan to reduce debt. We retired approximately $4 billion of debt through scheduled maturities, early debt retirements, and an exchange offer on our FELINE PACS units. In 2005, scheduled maturities are approximately $247 million. Significant reductions in debt during 2004 include the following. On March 15, we retired the remaining $679 million outstanding balance of the 9.25 percent senior unsecured notes due March 15, 2004. In June and September, we retired a total of approximately $2 billion through tender offers. In May we also repurchased on the open market approximately $255 million of various notes. In conjunction with the tendered notes, related consents, and the debt repurchase, we paid premiums of approximately $214 million. The premiums, as well as related fees and expenses, together totaling $252.4 million, are included in Early debt retirement costs on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. In June, we made a payment of approximately $109 million for accrued interest, short term payables, and long term debt on borrowings collateralized by certain receivables from the California Power Exchange that were previously sold to a third party. Approximately $79 million of the 77 Table of Contents payment is included in Payments of long term debt on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. In July 2004, we received payment of approximately $104 million from the California Power Exchange which is reported in Changes in accounts and notes receivable on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. In October, we completed the exchange of approximately 33.1 million FELINE PACS units for one share of our common stock plus $1.47 in cash for each unit resulting in the retirement of $827 million of debt. In November, we completed the purchase and retirement of approximately $200 million of the remaining notes in connection with our FELINE PACS remarketing. Approximately $73.1 million of the original $1.1 billion of notes remains outstanding and is due on February 16, 2007. For additional discussion of other repayments in 2004, see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We made significant reductions in our debt in 2003. We retired $3.2 billion in debt, redeemed $275 million in preferred stock, and issued $2 billion in debt at more favorable market rates. Significant borrowings and repayments during 2003 included the following. On March 4, our Northwest Pipeline subsidiary completed an offering of $175 million of 8.125 percent senior notes due 2010. Proceeds from the issuance were used for general corporate purposes, including the funding of capital expenditures. On May 28, we issued $300 million of 5.5 percent junior subordinated convertible debentures due 2033. The proceeds were used to redeem all outstanding 9.875 percent cumulative convertible preferred shares. In May, we repaid the RMT Note totaling $1.15 billion, which included certain contractual fees and deferred interest. On May 30, a subsidiary in our Exploration & Production segment entered into a $500 million secured note due May 30, 2007, at a floating interest rate of LIBOR plus 3.75 percent. This loan refinanced a portion of the RMT Note discussed above. On February 25, 2004 we completed an amendment that provided more favorable terms including a lower interest rate and an extension of the maturity by one year. On June 6, we entered into a two year $800 million revolving and letter of credit facility, primarily for the purpose of issuing letters of credit. The facility was secured by cash and or acceptable government securities. We terminated this facility in May 2004. On June 10, we issued $800 million of 8.625 percent senior unsecured notes due 2010. The notes were issued under our $3 billion shelf registration statement. The proceeds were used to improve corporate liquidity, general corporate purposes, and payment of maturing debt obligations. We retired $793 million of these notes in an August 2004 tender offer. On June 10, we also redeemed all the outstanding 9.875 percent cumulative convertible preferred shares for approximately $289 million, plus $5.3 million for accrued dividends. In October, we retired $721 million of senior unsecured 9.25 percent notes and $230 million of other notes and debentures through tender offers. In conjunction with the tendered notes and related consents, we paid premiums of approximately $58 million. The premiums, as well as related fees and expenses, together totaling $66.8 million, are included in Early debt retirement costs on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. In October, our PIGAP high pressure gas compression project in Venezuela obtained $230 million in non recourse financing. We own a 70 percent interest in the project and, therefore, the debt is reflected on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Proceeds from the loan were used to repay us for notes due and the other owner for a portion of the initial funding of construction related costs. Upon the 78 Table of Contents execution of the loan, the project made additional cash distributions to the owners based on their respective ownership interests. We received approximately $183 million in cash proceeds, net of amounts paid relating to an up front premium, the purchase of an interest rate lock and cash used to fund a debt service reserve. Significant borrowings and repayments in 2002 included the following. On January 14, we completed the sale of 44 million publicly traded units, known as FELINE PACS, that include a senior debt security and an equity purchase contract, for net proceeds of approximately $1.1 billion. As discussed previously, only $73.1 million of notes remains outstanding at December 31, 2004. On March 19, we issued $850 million of 30 year notes with an interest rate of 8.75 percent and $650 million of 10 year notes with an interest rate of 8.125 percent. The proceeds were used to repay approximately $1.4 billion outstanding commercial paper, provide working capital and for general corporate purposes. In May, Power entered into an agreement which transferred the rights to certain receivables, along with risks associated with that collection, in exchange for cash. Due to the structure of the agreement, Power accounted for this transaction as debt collateralized by the claims and recorded $79 million of debt. As discussed previously, this amount was paid in June 2004. RMT entered into a $900 million credit agreement dated as of July 31, 2002. As discussed previously, this amount was repaid in May 2003. Dividends paid on common stock were increased from $.01 to $.05 per common share in fourth quarter 2004 and totaled $43.4 million for the year ended 2004. One of the covenants under the former $500 million revolving credit facilities limited our quarterly common stock dividends to not more than $.05 per common share. The covenant was removed when the facilities were replaced on January 20, 2005. In 2003, we also paid $32.6 million in accrued dividends on the 9.875 percent cumulative convertible preferred shares that were redeemed in June 2003. The $32.6 million of preferred dividends paid includes the 2003 payment of $6.8 million in dividends accrued at December 31, 2002. The $29.5 million of preferred stock dividends reported on the Consolidated Statement of Operations also includes $3.7 million of issuance costs. During 2002, structural changes to certain limited liability company member interests required classification of these outside investor interests as debt. These structural changes also included the repayment of the investors preferred interest in installments. During 2002, approximately $558 million was repaid related to these interests and is included in the payments of long term debt. During 2003, the remaining balances associated with these interests were paid. Approximately $323 million of payments are included in payments of long term debt for 2003. In third quarter 2002, the downgrade of our senior unsecured rating below BB by Standard & Poors, and Ba1 by Moodys Investors Service, resulted in the early retirement of an outside investors preferred ownership interest for $135 million. Significant items reflected as discontinued operations within financing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, including the cash provided by financing activities, include the following items: proceeds from long term debt of Williams Energy Partners LP related to financing entered into in 2002 of $489 million, and net proceeds from issuance of common units by Williams Energy Partners LP in 2002 of $279 million. 79 Table of Contents Investing activities Capital expenditures by segment are presented below. Capital Expenditures Segment 2004 2003 2002 (Millions) Power $ 1.0 $ 1.0 $ 135.8 Gas Pipeline 251.0 497.6 672.0 E&P 445.4 202.0 364.1 Midstream 84.2 252.9 432.8 Other 5.8 2.5 57.3 Total $ 787.4 $ 956.0 $ 1,662.0 Power made capital expenditures in 2002 primarily to purchase power generating turbines. Gas Pipeline made capital expenditures in 2004 primarily for the maintenance of existing facilities and in 2002 through 2003 primarily to expand deliverability into the east and west coast markets. Planned expenditures for 2005 are primarily for the maintenance of existing facilities and certain regulatory compliance measures. Exploration & Production made capital expenditures in 2002 through 2004 primarily for continued development of our natural gas reserves through the drilling of wells. Planned expenditures for 2005 are focused on increasing production from our portfolio of undeveloped reserves and pursuing expansion opportunities in existing and new basins. Midstream made capital expenditures in 2002 through 2004 primarily to acquire, expand, develop and modernize gathering and processing facilities and terminals. Included in capital expenditures are the following amounts related to the deepwater project: 2004 $31 million; 2003 $189 million; and 2002 $343 million. Planned expenditures for 2005 are focused on attracting new volumes to our assets and further expanding our systems in existing basins. In September 2004, we received a $67.9 million payment from WilTel, which included payment in full on the balance of our short term note receivable of $54.6 million and a principal payment on the long term note receivable in the amount of $13.3 million. This activity is included in Payments received on notes receivable from WilTel on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. In December 2004, we reached an agreement to sell the remaining balance of the WilTel Note. In January 2005, the sale closed and we received approximately $54.6 million. During the first four months of 2004, we purchased $471.8 million of restricted investments comprised of U.S. Treasury notes and received proceeds of $851.4 million on the scheduled maturity of certain of this type investment. We made these purchases to satisfy the 105 percent cash collateralization requirement in the $800 million revolving credit facility. This facility was terminated on May 3, 2004, after we obtained the $1 billion secured revolving credit facility, amended to $1.275 billion in August 2004 (see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). In 2003, we purchased $739.9 million of restricted investments comprised of U.S. Treasury notes. We sold $10 million of these notes and retired $341.8 million on their scheduled maturity date. During February 2004, we participated in a recapitalization plan completed by Longhorn. As a result of this plan, we received approximately $58 million in repayment of a portion of our advances to and deferred payments from Longhorn and converted the remaining advances, including accrued interest, into preferred equity interests in Longhorn. The $58 million received is included in Proceeds from dispositions of investments and other assets. 80 Table of Contents Purchase of investments/advances to affiliates in 2003 consists primarily of $127 million of additional investment by Midstream in Discovery. The cash investment was used by Discovery to pay maturing debt (see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Purchases in 2002 include approximately $234 million towards the development of the Gulfstream joint venture project, one of our equity method investments. In 2004, 2003 and 2002, we realized significant cash proceeds from asset dispositions, the sales of businesses, and the disposition of investments as part of our overall plan to increase liquidity and reduce debt. The following sales provided significant proceeds and include various adjustments subsequent to the actual date of sale: In 2004: approximately $544 million in net proceeds related to the sale of our Canadian straddle plants; and $305 million related to the sale of Alaska refinery, retail and pipeline and related assets. In 2003: $803 million related to the sale of Texas Gas Transmission Corporation; $465 million related to the sale of certain natural gas exploration and production properties in Kansas, Colorado, New Mexico and Utah; $455 million (net of cash held by Williams Energy Partners) related to the sale of our general partnership interest and limited partner investment in Williams Energy Partners; $452 million related to the sale of the Midsouth refinery; $246 million related to the sale of certain natural gas liquids assets in Redwater, Alberta; and $188 million related to the sale of the Williams travel centers. In 2002: $1.15 billion related to the sale of Mid American and Seminole Pipeline; $464 million related to the sale of Kern River; $380 million related to the sale of Central; $326 million related to the sale of properties in the Jonah Field and the Anadarko Basin; $229 million related to the sale of the Cove Point LNG facility; and $173 million related to the sale of our interest in Alliance Pipeline. In fourth quarter 2002, we received $180 million in cash proceeds from the sale of notes receivable from WilTel to Leucadia. Significant items reflected as discontinued operations within investing activities on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows include capital expenditures of Texas Gas, primarily for expansion of its interstate natural gas pipeline system, of $41.9 million in 2002. Outlook for 2005 and beyond We enter 2005 having completed our restructuring plan and are now in a position to shift to growth through disciplined investments in natural gas businesses. In 2005, we expect to continue to reduce debt, although not at the levels experienced in the last year. As noted previously, we expect to maintain liquidity from cash and revolving credit facilities of at least $1 billion. We are maintaining this level as we consider the potential impact of significant changes in commodity prices, contract margin requirements above current levels, unplanned capital spending needs and the need to meet near term scheduled debt payments. 81 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2004, our two unsecured revolving credit facilities contained covenants that restricted our ability to issue new debt, with minimal exceptions, until a certain fixed charge coverage ratio was achieved. In January 2005, these facilities were terminated and replaced with two new facilities from which most of the restrictive covenants, including this fixed charge ratio, were removed. As a result of our growth, we estimate capital and investment expenditures will increase in the future to approximately $1 billion to $1.2 billion in 2005. Of the estimated capital expenditures for 2005, approximately $610 million to $695 million is for maintenance related projects primarily at Gas Pipeline, including pipeline replacement and Clean Air Act projects. We expect to fund capital and investment expenditures, debt payments, and working capital requirements through cash and cash equivalents on hand and cash generated from operations, which is currently estimated to be between $1.3 billion and $1.6 billion in 2005. Potential risks associated with our planned levels of liquidity and the planned capital and investment expenditures discussed above include. Lower than expected levels of cash flow from operations. To mitigate this exposure, Exploration & Production has economically hedged the price of natural gas for approximately 286 MMcfe per day of its expected 2005 production of 600 to 700 MMcfe per day. Power estimates that it has economically hedged revenues, of varying degrees of certainty, covering approximately 97 percent of its fixed demand obligations through 2010. Sensitivity of margin requirements associated with our marginable commodity contracts. As of December 2004, we estimate our exposure to additional margin requirements over the next 360 days to no more than $353 million. Exposure associated with our efforts to resolve regulatory and litigation issues (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Based on our available cash on hand and expected cash flows from operations, we believe we have, or have access to, the financial resources and liquidity necessary to meet future cash requirements and maintain a sufficient level of liquidity to reasonably protect against unforeseen circumstances requiring the use of funds. 82 Table of Contents Contractual obligations The table below summarizes the maturity dates of our contractual obligations by period. 2006 2008 2005 2007 2009 Thereafter Total (Millions) Long term debt, including current portion: Principal $ 247 $ 515 $ 769 $ 6,457 $ 7,988 Interest 574 1,124 1,014 6,562 9,274 Capital leases Operating leases(1)(5) 194 379 367 1,412 2,352 Purchase obligations: Fuel conversion and other service contracts(2)(5) 239 490 501 2,844 4,074 Other(5) 400 446 312 454 (4) 1,612 Other long term liabilities, including current portion: Physical & financial derivatives:(3)(5) 564 301 178 189 1,232 Other(5) 47 80 30 16 173 Total $ 2,265 $ 3,335 $ 3,171 $ 17,934 $ 26,705 (1) Excludes sublease income of $875 million consisting of $168 million in 2005, $334 million in 2006 2007, $250 million in 2008 2009 and $123 million thereafter. Includes a Power tolling agreement that is now accounted for as an operating lease as a result of our implementation of EITF Issue No. 01 8, Determining Whether An Arrangement Contains a Lease, (EITF 01 8). This agreement was previously included in fuel conversion and other service contracts within purchase obligations. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (2) Power has entered into certain contracts giving us the right to receive fuel conversion services as well as certain other services associated with electric generation facilities that are currently in operation throughout the continental United States. (3) Although the amounts presented represent expected cash outflows, a portion of those obligations have previously been paid in accordance with third party margining agreements. As of December 31, 2004, we have paid $72 million in margins, adequate assurance, and prepays related to the obligations included in this disclosure. In addition, the obligations for physical and financial derivatives are based on market information as of December 31, 2004. Because market information changes daily and has the potential to be volatile, significant changes to the values in this category may occur. (4) Includes one year of annual payments totaling $2 million for contracts with indefinite termination dates. (5) Expected offsetting cash inflows resulting from product sales or net positive settlements are not reflected in these amounts. The offsetting expected cash inflows as of December 31, 2004 are $5 billion. Effects of inflation Our operations in recent years have benefited from relatively low inflation rates. Approximately 49 percent of our gross property, plant and equipment is at Gas Pipeline and approximately 51 percent is at other operating units. Gas Pipeline is subject to regulation, which limits recovery to historical cost. While amounts in excess of historical cost are not recoverable under current FERC practices, we anticipate being allowed to recover and earn a return based on increased actual cost incurred to replace existing assets. Cost based regulation, along with competition and other market factors, may limit our ability to recover such increased costs. For the other operating units, operating costs are influenced to a greater extent by specific price changes in oil and natural gas and related commodities than by changes in general inflation. Crude, 83 Table of Contents refined product, natural gas, natural gas liquids and power prices are particularly sensitive to OPEC production levels and or the market perceptions concerning the supply and demand balance in the near future. Environmental We are a participant in certain environmental activities in various stages including assessment studies, cleanup operations and or remedial processes at certain sites, some of which we currently do not own (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). We are monitoring these sites in a coordinated effort with other potentially responsible parties, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or other governmental authorities. We are jointly and severally liable along with unrelated third parties in some of these activities and solely responsible in others. Current estimates of the most likely costs of such activities are approximately $72 million, all of which are recorded as liabilities on our balance sheet at December 31, 2004. We expect to seek recovery of approximately $23 million of the accrued costs through future natural gas transmission rates. The remainder of these costs will be funded from operations. During 2004, we paid approximately $10 million for cleanup and or remediation and monitoring activities. We expect to pay approximately $14 million in 2005 for these activities. Estimates of the most likely costs of cleanup are generally based on completed assessment studies, preliminary results of studies or our experience with other similar cleanup operations. At December 31, 2004, certain assessment studies were still in process for which the ultimate outcome may yield significantly different estimates of most likely costs. Therefore, the actual costs incurred will depend on the final amount, type and extent of contamination discovered at these sites, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA or other governmental authorities, and other factors. We are subject to the federal Clean Air Act and to the federal Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 which require the EPA to issue new regulations. We are also subject to regulation at the state and local level. In September 1998, the EPA promulgated rules designed to mitigate the migration of ground level ozone in certain states. In March 2004 and June 2004, the EPA promulgated additional regulation regarding hazardous air pollutants which may impose additional controls. Capital expenditures necessary to install emission control devices on our Transco gas pipeline system to comply with rules were approximately $62 million in 2004 and are estimated to be between $110 million and $125 million over the next three years. This estimate of remaining expenditures is more than 50 percent lower than previous estimates due to 2004 expenditures, further analysis of the requirements, and also more clarification and finalization of government regulations. The actual costs incurred will depend on the final implementation plans developed by each state to comply with these regulations. We consider these costs on our Transco system associated with compliance with these environmental laws and regulations to be prudent costs incurred in the ordinary course of business and, therefore, recoverable through its rates. 84 Table of Contents Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest rate risk Our current interest rate risk exposure is related primarily to our debt portfolio, which was significantly reduced in 2004 by early retirements and payments. We reduced our total long term debt, including current portion, from approximately $12 billion at December 31, 2003, to approximately $8 billion at December 31, 2004 (see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The majority of our debt portfolio is comprised of fixed rate debt in order to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in interest rates. The maturity of our long term debt portfolio is partially influenced by the expected life of our operating assets. The tables below provide information as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, about our interest rate risk sensitive instruments. Long term debt in the tables represents principal cash flows, net of (discount) premium, and weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. Fair Value December 31, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter Total 2004 (Dollars in millions) Long term debt, including current portion: Fixed rate $ 235 $ 104 $ 381 $ 153 $ 41 $ 6,386 $ 7,300 $ 8,167 Interest rate 7.6 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % Variable rate $ 15 $ 15 $ 15 $ 563 $ 12 $ 42 $ 662 $ 675 Interest rate(1) Fair Value December 31, 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Thereafter Total 2003 (Dollars in millions) Long term debt, including current portion: Fixed rate $ 841 $ 232 $ 957 $ 1,527 $ 374 $ 7,362 $ 11,293 $ 11,574 Interest rate 7.5 % 7.5 % 7.5 % 7.7 % 7.8 % 7.7 % Variable rate $ 94 $ 15 $ 15 $ 493 $ 11 $ 54 $ 682 $ 709 Interest rate(2) Marketable securities: Notional amount(3) $ 379 $ $ $ $ $ $ 379 $ 381 Fixed rate 3.5 % (1) The weighted average interest rate for 2004 is LIBOR plus 2.3 percent. (2) The weighted average interest rate for 2003 was LIBOR plus 3.75 percent. (3) The marketable equity securities matured in 2004. The Consolidated Balance Sheet classification was determined based on the expected term of the underlying collateral requirement. Commodity price risk We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price of natural gas, power, crude oil, refined products and natural gas liquids and additionally to other market factors, such as market volatility and commodity price correlations, including correlations between crude oil and gas prices and between natural gas and power prices. We are exposed to these risks in connection with our owned energy related assets, our long term energy related contracts and our proprietary trading activities. We manage the risks associated with these market fluctuations using various derivatives. The fair value of derivative contracts is subject to changes in energy commodity market prices, the liquidity and volatility of the markets in which the contracts are 85 Table of Contents transacted, and changes in interest rates. We measure the risk in our portfolios using a value at risk methodology to estimate the potential one day loss from adverse changes in the fair value of the portfolios. Value at risk requires a number of key assumptions and is not necessarily representative of actual losses in fair value that could be incurred from the portfolios. The value at risk model assumes that, as a result of changes in commodity prices, there is a 95 percent probability that the one day loss in fair value of the portfolios will not exceed the value at risk. Beginning in 2004, the value at risk model uses a Monte Carlo method to simulate hypothetical movements in future market prices. The simulation method uses historical correlations and market forward prices and volatilities. In applying the value at risk methodology, we do not consider that the simulated hypothetical movements affect the positions or would cause any potential liquidity issues. In 2003, the value at risk model used historical simulations to estimate hypothetical movements in future market prices, assuming normal market conditions and historical market prices. In applying both value at risk methodologies, we do not consider that changing the portfolio in response to market conditions could affect market prices and could take longer than a one day holding period to execute. While a one day holding period has historically been the industry standard, a longer holding period could more accurately represent the true market risk given market liquidity and our own credit and liquidity constraints. We segregate our derivative contracts into trading and non trading contracts, as defined in the following paragraphs. We calculate value at risk separately for these two categories. Derivative contracts designated as normal purchases or sales under SFAS 133 and non derivative energy contracts have been excluded from our estimation of value at risk. Trading Our trading portfolio consists of derivative contracts entered into to provide price risk management services to third party customers. Only contracts that meet the definition of a derivative are carried at fair value on the balance sheet. Our value at risk for contracts held for trading purposes was $1 million at December 31, 2004 and $5 million at December 31, 2003. During the year ended December 31, 2004, our value at risk for these contracts ranged from a high of $3 million to a low of $1 million. Non Trading Our non trading portfolio consists of contracts that hedge or could potentially hedge the price risk exposure from the following activities: Segment Commodity Price Risk Exposure Exploration & Production Natural gas sales Midstream Natural gas purchases Power Natural gas purchases Electricity purchases Electricity sales The value at risk for contracts held for non trading purposes was $29 million and $18 million at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2004, our value at risk for these contracts ranged from a high of $29 million to a low of $18 million. Certain of the contracts held for non trading purposes were accounted for as cash flow hedges under SFAS 133. We did not consider the underlying commodity positions to which the cash flow hedges relate in our value at risk model. Therefore, value at risk does not represent economic losses that could occur on a total non trading portfolio that includes the underlying commodity positions. Foreign currency risk We have international investments that could affect our financial results if the investments incur a permanent decline in value as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the economic conditions in foreign countries. 86 Table of Contents International investments accounted for under the cost method totaled $52 million and $95 million at December 31, 2004, and 2003, respectively. These investments are primarily in non publicly traded companies for which it is not practicable to estimate fair value. We believe that we can realize the carrying value of these investments considering the status of the operations of the companies underlying these investments. If a 20 percent change occurred in the value of the underlying currencies of these investments against the U.S. dollar, the fair value at December 31, 2004, could change by approximately $10 million assuming a direct correlation between the currency fluctuation and the value of the investments. The sale of our Canadian straddle plants in July 2004 decreased our exposure to foreign currency risk. Net assets of consolidated foreign operations whose functional currency is the local currency are located primarily in Canada and approximate six percent of our net assets at December 31, 2004, compared to 15 percent of our net assets at December 31, 2003. These foreign operations do not have significant transactions or financial instruments denominated in other currencies. However, these investments do have the potential to impact our financial position, due to fluctuations in these local currencies arising from the process of re measuring the local functional currency into the U.S. dollar. As an example, a 20 percent change in the respective functional currencies against the U.S. dollar could have changed stockholders equity by approximately $64 million at December 31, 2004. We historically have not utilized derivatives or other financial instruments to hedge the risk associated with the movement in foreign currencies with the exception of a Canadian dollar denominated note receivable which was terminated in 2004 (see Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). However, we monitor currency fluctuations and could potentially use derivative financial instruments or employ other investment alternatives if cash flows or investment returns so warrant. 87 Table of Contents MANAGEMENTS REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Williams management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a 15(f) and 15d 15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) and for the assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to our management and Board of Directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Our internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorization of our management and board of directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Our management assessed the effectiveness of Williams internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004. In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control Integrated Framework. Managements assessment included an evaluation of the design of our internal control over financial reporting and testing of the operational effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Based on our assessment we believe that, as of December 31, 2004, Williams internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. Ernst & Young, LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on our assessment of the companys internal control over financial reporting. A copy of this report is included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. 88 Table of Contents REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING The Board of Directors and Stockholders of The Williams Companies, Inc. We have audited managements assessment, included in the accompanying Managements Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, that The Williams Companies, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). The Williams Companies, Inc.s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on managements assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating managements assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In our opinion, managements assessment that The Williams Companies, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the COSO criteria. Also, in our opinion, The Williams Companies, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on the COSO criteria. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet of The Williams Companies, Inc. as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004 of The Williams Companies, Inc. and our report dated March 8, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. Tulsa, Oklahoma March 8, 2005 89 Table of Contents 
 
