Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations General We are primarily a natural gas company, engaged in finding, producing, gathering, processing, and transporting natural gas. We also manage a wholesale power business. Our operations are located principally in the United States and are organized into the following reporting segments: Power, Gas Pipeline, Exploration & Production, and Midstream Gas & Liquids (see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of reporting segments). Unless indicated otherwise, the following discussion of critical accounting policies and estimates, discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition and liquidity relates to our current continuing operations and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Part II Item 8 of this document. Overview of 2005 We entered 2005 having completed the key components of our 2003 restructuring plan and in a position to shift our focus to growth. Our 2005 plan included the following objectives: Increase focus and disciplined EVA based investment in natural gas businesses (EVA (Economic Value Added) is a registered Trademark of Stern Stewart & Co.); Continue to steadily improve credit ratios and ratings with the goal of achieving investment grade ratios; Continue to reduce risk and liquidity requirements while maximizing cash flow in the Power segment; Maintain liquidity from cash and revolving credit facilities of at least $1 billion; Generate sustainable growth in EVA and shareholder value. Our 2005 income from continuing operations increased to $317.4 million, as compared to $93.2 million in 2004. Our 2005 results reflect the benefit of increased natural gas production and higher net realized average prices, along with reduced levels of interest expense. Results for 2004 included $282.1 million in costs associated with the early retirement of debt, while results for 2005 were reduced by accruals associated with agreements to resolve gas reporting issues and impairments of certain investments. Our net cash provided by operating activities was $1.45 billion in 2005, comparable with the 2004 level of $1.49 billion. In addition to achieving these results, the following represent significant actions or events that occurred during the year: In 2005, we further improved our credit ratios from those achieved in 2004. We retired $200 million of debt that matured January 15, 2005. On February 16, the holders of the remaining 10.9 million equity forward contracts associated with the FELINE PACS units exercised contracts to purchase one share of our common stock for $25 a share, resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $273 million. The remaining notes associated with the FELINE PACS units totaling approximately $73 million are due February 16, 2007. During 2005, Exploration & Production increased its average daily domestic production levels, its net realized average prices, and its developmental drilling activities. In March 2005, Exploration & Production entered into a lease for ten new drilling rigs to support the accelerated pace of natural gas 35 Table of Contents development in the Piceance basin. The first rig was delivered in January 2006 and the remaining rigs are expected to be delivered during 2006. In 2005 and early 2006, Power continued to reduce risk by entering into electricity and capacity forward contracts with fixed sales prices for over 6,000 megawatts of capacity in total across various periods through 2010. During 2005, Midstream Gas & Liquids (Midstream) continued efforts to expand operations of large scale assets in growth basins. These efforts include signing definitive agreements to extend oil and gas pipelines from our Devils Tower spar to the Blind Faith prospect and obtaining Board approval to add a fifth cryogenic train to our gas processing plant in Opal, Wyoming. Both of these additions are expected to be in service in 2007. In July and November of 2005, our Board of Directors approved regular quarterly dividends of 7.5 cents per share of common stock, which reflects an increase of 50 percent compared with the 5 cents per share paid in each of the three prior quarters. On August 23, 2005, Williams Partners L.P. completed its initial public offering of five million common units at a price of $21.50 per unit. The underwriters also fully exercised their option to purchase an additional 750,000 common units at the same price. Upon completion of the transaction, we held approximately 60 percent of the interests in Williams Partners L.P., including 100 percent of the general partner. See the Midstream Gas & Liquids Overview of 2005 within Item 7 for further information. During third quarter 2005, certain Gulf Coast area operations were interrupted by hurricanes. The impact of these hurricanes included temporary shutdowns as well as varying levels of damage. The overall impact was not material to our financial position. In September 2005, we reached an agreement to settle litigation filed in 2002 under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA). The settlement, which received final approval in November 2005, provided for us to pay $55 million to plaintiffs, of which $50 million was covered and paid by insurance. See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. In September 2005, we increased our available liquidity by obtaining a total of $700 million of capacity in two five year unsecured credit facilities. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. In November 2005, we initiated an offer to induce conversion of up to $300 million of the 5.5 percent junior subordinated debentures convertible into our common stock. The conversion was executed in January 2006 and approximately $220.2 million of the debentures were exchanged for common stock. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. During 2005 we continued our efforts to resolve legacy issues, such as pending claims and investigations involving inaccurate reporting of natural gas prices and volumes to an industry publication in 2002. In February 2006, we reached agreements with various parties to substantially resolve this exposure. Under the terms of these agreements, Power will pay a total of $77.2 million to the various parties. See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Outlook for 2006 Our plan for 2006 is focused on continued disciplined growth. Objectives of this plan include: Continue to improve both EVA and segment profit. Invest in our natural gas businesses in a way that improves EVA, meets customer needs, and enhances our competitive position. 36 Table of Contents Continue to increase natural gas production. Increase the scale of our gathering and processing business in key growth basins. File new rates to enable our Gas Pipeline segment to remain competitive and value creating, while managing our costs and capturing demand growth. These rates are expected to be effective in 2007. Execute power contracts that offset a significant percentage of our financial obligations associated with our tolling agreements. As a result of the strategy to grow our natural gas businesses, we estimate capital expenditures will increase to approximately $2.0 to $2.2 billion in 2006, compared to $1.3 billion in 2005. We expect to fund capital and investment expenditures, debt payments, dividends and working capital requirements through cash generated from operations, which is currently estimated to be between $1.6 billion and $1.9 billion in 2006, as well as proceeds from debt issuances, sales of units of Williams Partners L.P., and cash and cash equivalents on hand as needed. Potential risks and or obstacles that could prevent us from achieving these objectives include: Volatility of commodity prices; Lower than expected levels of cash flow from operations; Decreased drilling success at Exploration & Production; Exposure associated with our efforts to resolve regulatory and litigation issues (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); General economic and industry downturn. We continue to address these risks through utilization of commodity hedging strategies, focused efforts to resolve regulatory issues and litigation claims, disciplined investment strategies, and maintaining our desired level of at least $1 billion in liquidity from cash and revolving credit facilities. New Accounting Standards and Emerging Issues Accounting standards that have been issued and are not yet effective, or that have not yet been issued, may have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements in the future. These include: Revised SFAS No. 123, Share Based Payment; Proposed SFAS on Fair Value Measurements (exposure draft); Proposed Interpretation on Accounting for Uncertain Tax Positions an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (exposure draft); Accounting for Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits (preliminary views). See Recent Accounting Standards in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on these and other recently issued accounting standards. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our financial statements reflect the selection and application of accounting policies that require management to make significant estimates that require subjective and complex judgment. The selection of these policies has been discussed with our Audit Committee. We believe that the following are the more critical judgment areas in the application of our accounting policies that currently affect our financial condition and results of operations. 37 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition Derivatives We hold a substantial portfolio of energy trading and non trading contracts for a variety of purposes. We review these contracts to determine whether they are non derivatives or derivatives. If they are derivatives, we further assess whether the contracts qualify for either cash flow hedge accounting or the normal purchases and normal sales exception. The determination of whether a derivative contract qualifies as a cash flow hedge includes an analysis of historical market price information to assess whether the derivatives are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting cash flows attributable to the hedged risk. For derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges, changes in their fair value are not reflected in earnings until the associated hedged item affects earnings. For those that have not been designated as hedges or do not qualify for hedge accounting, the net change in their fair value is recognized in income currently (marked to market). Derivatives for which the normal purchases and normal sales exception has been elected are accounted for on an accrual basis. The fair value for derivative contracts is determined based on the nature of the transaction and the market in which transactions are executed. We also incorporate assumptions and judgments about counterparty performance and credit considerations in our determination of their fair value. Contracts are executed in the following environments: Exchange traded or over the counter markets with quoted prices; Exchange traded or over the counter markets with quoted market prices but limited price transparency, requiring increased judgment to determine fair value; Markets without quoted market prices. The number of transactions executed without quoted market prices is limited. We estimate the fair value of these contracts by using readily available price quotes in similar markets and other market analyses. The fair value of all derivative contracts is continually subject to change as the underlying commodity market changes and our assumptions and judgments change. Additional discussion of the accounting for energy contracts at fair value is included in Energy Trading Activities within Item 7, Item 7A Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk, and Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Oil and Gas Producing Activities We use the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas producing activities. Estimated natural gas and oil reserves and forward market prices for oil and gas are a significant part of our financial calculations and certain estimated reserves are used as collateral to secure financing. Following are examples of how these estimates affect financial results: An increase (decrease) in estimated proved oil and gas reserves can reduce (increase) our unit of production depreciation, depletion and amortization rates. Changes in oil and gas reserves and forward market prices both impact projected future cash flows from our oil and gas properties. This, in turn, can impact our periodic impairment analyses, including that for goodwill. The process of estimating natural gas and oil reserves is very complex, requiring significant judgment in the evaluation of all available geological, geophysical, engineering, and economic data. After being estimated internally, 99 percent of our reserve estimates are either audited or prepared by independent experts. The data may change substantially over time as a result of numerous factors, including additional development activity, evolving production history, and a continual reassessment of the viability of production under changing economic conditions. As a result, material revisions to existing reserve estimates could occur from time to time. A revision of our reserve estimates within reasonably likely parameters is not expected to result in an impairment of our oil and gas properties or goodwill. However, reserve estimate revisions would impact our depreciation and depletion expense prospectively. For example, a change of approximately 10 percent in oil and gas reserves for each basin would change our annual depreciation, depletion and amortization expense 38 Table of Contents between approximately $20 million and $25 million. The actual impact would depend on the specific basins impacted and whether the change resulted from proved developed, proved undeveloped or a combination of these reserve categories. Forward market prices, which are utilized in our impairment analyses, include estimates of prices for periods that extend beyond those with quoted market prices. This forward market price information is consistent with that generally used in evaluating our drilling decisions and acquisition plans. These market prices for future periods impact the production economics underlying oil and gas reserve estimates. The prices of natural gas and oil are volatile and change from period to period, thus impacting our estimates. An unfavorable change in the forward price curve within reasonably likely parameters is not expected to result in an impairment of our oil and gas properties or goodwill. Contingent Liabilities We record liabilities for estimated loss contingencies, including environmental matters, when we assess that a loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Revisions to contingent liabilities are reflected in income in the period in which new or different facts or information become known or circumstances change that affect the previous assumptions with respect to the likelihood or amount of loss. Liabilities for contingent losses are based upon our assumptions and estimates and upon advice of legal counsel, engineers, or other third parties regarding the probable outcomes of the matter. As new developments occur or more information becomes available, our assumptions and estimates of these liabilities may change. Changes in our assumptions and estimates or outcomes different from our current assumptions and estimates could materially affect future results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period. See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets And Tax Contingencies We have deferred tax assets resulting from certain investments and businesses that have a tax basis in excess of the book basis and from tax carry forwards generated in the current and prior years. We must evaluate whether we will ultimately realize these tax benefits and establish a valuation allowance for those that may not be realizable. This evaluation considers tax planning strategies, including assumptions about the availability and character of future taxable income. At December 31, 2005, we have $940 million of deferred tax assets for which a $37 million valuation allowance has been established. When assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we considered forecasts of future company performance, the estimated impact of potential asset dispositions and our ability and intent to execute tax planning strategies to utilize tax carryovers. Based on our projections, we believe that it is probable that we can utilize our year end 2005 federal tax net operating loss carryovers and capital loss carryovers prior to their expiration. We are not expecting to be able to utilize $24 million, or approximately $8 million of tax benefit, of the charitable contribution carryovers expiring in 2006. The remaining $20 million of charitable contributions are expected to be utilized prior to their expiration. We also do not expect to be able to utilize $29 million of foreign deferred tax assets related to carryovers. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the tax carryovers. The ultimate amount of deferred tax assets realized could be materially different from those recorded, as influenced by potential changes in jurisdictional income tax laws and the circumstances surrounding the actual realization of related tax assets. We regularly face challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. In evaluating the liability associated with our various filing positions, we record a liability for probable tax contingencies. The ultimate disposition of these contingencies could have a material impact on net cash flows. To the extent we were to prevail in matters for which accruals have been established or were required to pay amounts in excess of our accrued liability, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted. 39 Table of Contents Impairment of Long Lived Assets And Investments We evaluate our long lived assets and investments for impairment when we believe events or changes in circumstances indicate that we may not be able to recover the carrying value of certain long lived assets or the decline in carrying value of an investment is other than temporary. In addition to those long lived assets and investments for which impairment charges were recorded (see Notes 2, 3, and 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), certain others were reviewed for which no impairment was required. Our computations utilized judgments and assumptions in the following areas: The probability that we would sell an asset or continue to hold and use it; For assets held for use, estimated fair value of the asset, undiscounted future cash flows, and discounted future cash flows; For assets held for sale, estimated sales proceeds, form and timing of the asset disposition, and counterparty performance considerations; For investments that may be impaired, whether the potential impairment is other than temporary; Current and future economic environment in which the asset operates. Canadian Olefins We continue to assess our Canadian olefins assets for impairment based on previously identified indicators. Our investment in these assets is currently not estimated to be recoverable without modifications to or a renegotiation of key terms in an off gas processing agreement. We have performed recoverability tests that considered varying outcomes relating to successful renegotiation of the processing agreements. Our computations used judgments and assumptions in the following areas: Varying terms of renegotiated contracts; Commodity pricing; Probability weighting of different scenarios; Trends in foreign exchange rates. After applying probability weightings to the various scenarios, we determined that the assets did not require impairment at December 31, 2005 and 2004. A critical assumption in our impairment analysis was the valuation of future contract terms in the related processing agreement. Unsuccessful renegotiation of the contract or a decrease of approximately 20 percent or more in our low case contract valuation estimate would likely result in an impairment. Aux Sable We own a 14.6 percent equity interest in Aux Sable Liquid Products LP (Aux Sable), which owns and operates a natural gas liquids extraction and fractionation facility. During 2003, we performed an impairment review of our investment in Aux Sable as operating results and cash flow projections suggested that a decline in the fair value of this investment below our carrying value could exist. We estimated the fair value of our investment based on a projection of discounted cash flows of Aux Sable. Based upon our analysis, we recorded a $14.1 million impairment of this investment. During 2005, we decided to pursue a potential sale of this investment. We have recorded an impairment of $23 million based on our estimate of sales proceeds from this investment. Pension and Postretirement Obligations We have employee benefit plans that include pension and other postretirement benefits. Pension and other postretirement benefit plan expense and obligations are calculated by a third party actuary and are impacted by various estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include the expected long 40 Table of Contents term rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, expected rate of compensation increase, health care cost trend rates, and employee demographics, including retirement age and mortality. These assumptions are reviewed annually and adjustments are made as needed. The assumptions utilized to compute expense and the benefit obligations are shown in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The table below presents the estimated increase (decrease) in pension and other postretirement benefit expense and obligations resulting from a one percentage point change in the specified assumption. Benefit Expense Benefit Obligation One Percentage One Percentage One Percentage One Percentage Point Increase Point Decrease Point Increase Point Decrease (Millions) Pension benefits: Discount rate $ (14 ) $ 15 $ (131 ) $ 155 Expected long term rate of return on plan assets (9 ) 9 Rate of compensation increase 2 (2 ) 12 (12 ) Other postretirement benefits: Discount rate (4 ) 6 (65 ) 79 Expected long term rate of return on plan assets (2 ) 2 Assumed health care cost trend rate 9 (6 ) 73 (58 ) The expected long term rates of return on plan assets are determined by combining a review of historical returns realized within the portfolio, the investment strategy included in the plans Investment Policy Statement, and the capital market projections provided by our independent investment consultant for the asset classifications in which the portfolio is invested as well as the target weightings of each asset classification. These rates are impacted by changes in general market conditions, but because they are long term in nature, short term market swings do not significantly impact the rates. Changes to our target asset allocation would also impact these rates. Our expected long term rate of return on plan assets used for our pension plans has been 8.5 percent since 2002. Over the past ten years, our actual average return on plan assets for our pension plans has been approximately 8.6 percent. The discount rates are used to discount future benefit obligations to todays dollars. Decreases in these rates increase the obligation and related expense. The discount rates for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans were determined separately based on an approach specific to our plans and their respective expected benefit cash flows as described in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our discount rate assumptions are impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions that affect interest rates on long term, high quality corporate bonds. The expected rate of compensation increase represents average long term salary increases. An increase in this rate causes pension obligation and expense to increase. The assumed health care cost trend rates are based on our actual historical cost rates that are adjusted for expected changes in the health care industry. 41 Table of Contents Results of Operations Consolidated Overview The following table and discussion is a summary of our consolidated results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 2005. The results of operations by segment are discussed in further detail following this consolidated overview discussion. Years Ended December 31, % Change % Change from from 2005 2004(1) 2004 2003(1) 2003 (Millions) (Millions) (Millions) Revenues $ 12,583.6 +1 % $ 12,461.3 25 % $ 16,651.0 Costs and expenses: Costs and operating expenses 10,871.0 1 % 10,751.7 +28 % 15,004.3 Selling, general and administrative expenses 325.4 +8 % 355.5 +16 % 421.3 Other (income) expense net 61.2 NM (51.6 ) +142 % (21.3 ) General corporate expenses 154.9 29 % 119.8 38 % 87.0 Total costs and expenses 11,412.5 11,175.4 15,491.3 Operating income 1,171.1 1,285.9 1,159.7 Interest accrued net (664.5 ) +20 % (827.7 ) +34 % (1,248.0 ) Investing income 23.7 51 % 48.0 34 % 73.2 Early debt retirement costs (.4 ) +100 % (282.1 ) NM (66.8 ) Minority interest in income of consolidated subsidiaries (25.7 ) 20 % (21.4 ) 10 % (19.4 ) Other income net 27.1 +24 % 21.8 43 % 38.5 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes and cumulative effect of change in accounting principles 531.3 224.5 (62.8 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 213.9 63 % 131.3 NM (5.3 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations 317.4 93.2 (57.5 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations (2.1 ) NM 70.5 78 % 326.6 Income before cumulative effect of change in accounting principles 315.3 163.7 269.1 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles (1.7 ) NM +100 % (761.3 ) Net income (loss) 313.6 163.7 (492.2 ) Preferred stock dividends NM +100 % 29.5 Income (loss) applicable to common stock $ 313.6 $ 163.7 $ (521.7 ) (1) + Favorable Change; Unfavorable Change; NM A percentage calculation is not meaningful due to change in signs, a zero value denominator or a percentage change greater than 200. 2005 vs. 2004 The $122.3 million increase in revenues is due primarily to increased revenues at Exploration & Production due to higher natural gas prices and production volumes sold and gas management income, and at Midstream due primarily to increased natural gas liquids (NGL) prices and crude marketing revenue. 42 Table of Contents Partially offsetting these increases is decreased revenue at Power due primarily to the absence of crude and refined products activity and reduced net forward unrealized mark to market gains. The $119.3 million increase in costs and operating expenses is due primarily to increased crude marketing costs and increased NGL costs at Midstream in addition to increased depreciation, depletion and amortization and gas management expense at Exploration & Production. Partially offsetting these increases are decreased costs at Power primarily due to the absence of crude and refined products activity. The $30.1 million decrease in selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses is primarily due to a $17.1 million reduction in expenses at Gas Pipeline to record the cumulative impact of a correction to pension expense attributable to the periods 2003 and 2004 and a $9.7 reduction of bad debt expense at Power resulting from the sale of certain receivables to a third party. Partially offsetting these items is increased staffing costs at Exploration & Production in support of increased operational drilling activity. Other (income) expense net, within operating income, in 2005 includes the following significant items: An $82.2 million accrual for litigation contingencies at Power, associated primarily with agreements reached to substantially resolve exposure related to certain natural gas price and volume reporting issues; Gains totaling $29.6 million on the sale of two natural gas properties at Exploration & Production; A gain of $9 million on a sale of property in the Other segment. Other (income) expense net, within operating income, in 2004 includes: Income of $93.6 million from an insurance arbitration award associated with our Gulf Liquids New River Project LLC (Gulf Liquids) at Midstream; Gains of $16.2 million from the sale of Exploration & Productions securities, invested in a coal seam royalty trust, that were purchased for resale; A $9.5 million gain on the sale of Louisiana olefins assets at Midstream; A $15.4 million loss provision related to an ownership dispute on prior period production included at Exploration & Production; An $11.8 million environmental expense accrual related to the Augusta refinery facility in the Other segment; A $9 million write off of previously capitalized costs on an idled segment of Northwest Pipelines system included in the Gas Pipeline segment. The $35.1 million increase in general corporate expenses is due primarily to $13.8 million of expense related to the settlement of certain insurance coverage issues and a $16 million increase in outside legal costs associated primarily with securities class action matters. The $163.2 million decrease in interest accrued net is due primarily to lower average borrowing levels in 2005 as compared to 2004. The $24.3 million decrease in investing income is due primarily to a $76.4 increase in impairment charges on our investment in Longhorn Partners Pipeline, L.P. (Longhorn), a $13.9 million increase in Longhorn equity losses, and a $23 million impairment of our Aux Sable equity investment. Partially offsetting these decreases are the following increases: A $30.4 million increase in domestic and international equity earnings, excluding Longhorn and Aux Sable; The absence in 2005 of a $20.8 million impairment of an international cost based investment; 43 Table of Contents The absence in 2005 of a $16.9 million impairment of our Discovery Producer Services LLC (Discovery) equity investment; An $8.6 million gain on the sale of our remaining interests in the MAPL and Seminole assets; The absence in 2005 of a $6.5 million Longhorn recapitalization fee. Early debt retirement costs include premiums, fees and expenses related to the retirement of debt. Provision (benefit) for income taxes changed unfavorably by $82.6 million due primarily to increased pre tax income in 2005 as compared to 2004. The effective income tax rate for 2005 is higher than the federal statutory rate due primarily to state income taxes, nondeductible expenses, the effect of taxes on foreign operations and the inability to utilize charitable contribution carryovers. The 2005 effective income tax rate has been reduced by a benefit adjustment to reduce the overall deferred income tax liabilities and favorable settlements on federal and state income tax matters. The effective income tax rate for 2004 is higher than the federal statutory rate due primarily to state income taxes, a charge associated with charitable contribution carryovers and the effect of taxes on foreign operations. A 2004 accrual for income tax contingencies was offset by favorable settlements of certain federal and state income tax matters. Income (loss) from discontinued operations in 2004 is comprised of gains on the sales of the Canadian straddle plants and the Alaska refinery of $189.8 million and $3.6 million, respectively, as well as $22 million in income from our Canadian straddles discontinued operation. Partially offsetting these are $153 million of charges to increase our accrued liability associated with certain Quality Bank litigation matters. Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles in 2005 is due to the implementation of FIN 47, (see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). 2004 vs. 2003 The $4.2 billion decrease in revenues is due primarily to an approximately $3.9 billion decrease in revenues at Power resulting from lower realized revenues from power and crude and refined products. Partially offsetting the decrease was an increase in Midstreams revenues of $97.8 million reflecting higher volumes and improved NGL margins. The $4.3 billion decrease in costs and operating expenses is due primarily to lower costs and operating expenses at Power. This decrease is due primarily to lower purchase volumes of power and crude and refined products. The $65.8 million decrease in SG&A expense is due primarily to a $36 million decrease in compensation expense at Power due to reduced staffing levels, combined with the absence of $13.6 million of expense related to the accelerated recognition of deferred compensation during 2003. In addition, Midstreams SG&A expense declined $18 million largely due to asset sales and lower legal expense. Other (income) expense net, within operating income in 2004 is included in the 2005 vs. 2004 discussion. Other (income) expense net, within operating income, in 2003 includes: A $188 million gain from the sale of a Power contract; Net gains of $96.7 million in from the sale of Exploration & Productions interests in certain natural gas properties in the San Juan basin; A $16.2 million gain from Midstreams sale of the wholesale propane business; A $12.2 million gain on foreign currency exchange at Power; A $9.2 million gain on sale of blending assets at the Other segment; Income of $7.2 million at Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation (Transco) due to a partial reduction of accrued liabilities for claims associated with certain producers as a result of settlements and court rulings included in the Gas Pipeline segment; 44 Table of Contents A $108.7 million impairment on Gulf Liquids at Midstream; A $45 million goodwill impairment at Power; A $44.1 million impairment of the Hazelton generation plant at Power; A $25.6 million charge at Northwest Pipeline to write off capitalized software development costs for a service delivery system, included in the Gas Pipeline segment; A $20 million charge related to a settlement by Power with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC); A $19.5 million expense accrual at Power related to an adjustment of California rate refund and other related accruals; A $7.2 million impairment of the Aspen project at the Other segment. The $32.8 million increase in general corporate expenses is due primarily to efforts to evaluate and implement certain cost reduction strategies, and initial costs associated with outsourcing of certain services, increased legal costs due primarily to shareholder litigation and ERISA matters, and increased third party costs associated with certain mandated compliance activities. The $420.3 million decrease in interest accrued net includes: A reduction in interest expense and fees of $206 million at Exploration & Production, due primarily to the May 2003 prepayment of a secured note payable of Williams Production RMT Company (the RMT note); A $164 million decrease reflecting lower average borrowing levels; A reduction in amortization expense of $46 million related to deferred debt issuance costs, primarily due to the reduction of debt; A $24 million decrease reflecting lower average interest rates on long term debt; The absence in 2004 of $14 million of interest expense at Power related to a Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) ruling in 2003; The absence in 2004 of $10 million of interest expense related to a petroleum pricing dispute in 2003; A $35 million decrease in capitalized interest due primarily to completion of certain Midstream projects in the Gulf Coast region. The $25.2 million decrease in investing income includes $57.1 million lower interest income due primarily to higher net interest income at Power in 2003 as a result of certain FERC proceedings. The decrease was partially offset by $29.6 million higher equity earnings. Impairments and results from investment sales were substantially comparable in both periods. Early debt retirement costs include payments in excess of the carrying value of the debt, dealer fees and the write off of deferred debt issuance costs and discount/premium on the debt. Provision (benefit) for income taxes increased by $136.6 million due primarily to pre tax income in 2004 compared to a pre tax loss in 2003. The effective income tax rate for 2004 is greater than the federal statutory rate due primarily to the effect of state income taxes, a charge associated with charitable contribution carryovers and the effect of taxes on foreign operations. A 2004 accrual for tax contingencies was offset by favorable settlements of certain federal and state income tax matters. The effective income tax rate for the 2003 benefit for income taxes is lower than the federal statutory rate due primarily to nondeductible impairment of goodwill, nondeductible expenses, an accrual for tax contingencies and the effect of state income taxes, somewhat offset by the tax benefit of capital losses. 45 Table of Contents The primary components of income (loss) from discontinued operations in 2004 are included in the 2005 vs. 2004 discussion. Income (loss) from discontinued operations in 2003 is composed of the following pre tax items: Gains of $463.4 million on asset sales; Income (net of losses) from operations of $197.5 million; Asset impairments of $176.1 million; Losses of $9.6 million on asset sales. The cumulative effect of change in accounting principles reduced net income (loss) for 2003 by $761.3 million due to a $762.5 million charge related to the adoption of EITF 02 3 (see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), slightly offset by $1.2 million related to the adoption of SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (see Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). In June 2003, we redeemed all of our outstanding 9.875 percent cumulative convertible preferred shares. Thus, no preferred dividends were paid in 2004. 46 Table of Contents Results of Operations Segments We are currently organized into the following segments: Power, Gas Pipeline, Exploration & Production, Midstream and Other. Other primarily consists of corporate operations and certain continuing operations formerly included in the previously reported International and Petroleum Services segments. Our management currently evaluates performance based on segment profit (loss) from operations (see Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Prior period amounts have been restated to reflect all segment changes. The following discussions relate to the results of operations of our segments. Power Overview of 2005 Powers comparative operating results in 2005 were significantly influenced by the effect of cash flow hedge accounting and increased average natural gas and power prices. In fourth quarter 2004, Power designated a portion of its power and natural gas derivative contracts as cash flow hedges. As such, we deferred recognition of certain unrealized mark to market gains in accumulated other comprehensive loss in 2005. Similar unrealized gains were recorded to earnings in 2004 and 2003 prior to the application of hedge accounting. Powers 2005 earnings do reflect unrealized mark to market gains from (1) net increases in the fair value of forward derivative contracts held for trading purposes or which did not qualify for hedge accounting, and (2) hedge ineffectiveness. Powers 2005 results also reflect the combined impact of increased natural gas and power prices on its nonderivative tolling contracts. Although the average price of power increased, there was a greater increase in the average purchase price of natural gas, which is used to produce power. Hurricane Katrina and mild weather in California affected the prices of natural gas and power. The narrowing of the margin between power and natural gas prices and an outage at an electric generation facility resulted in an accrual gross margin loss (realized costs in excess of realized revenue) on certain tolling contracts. The chart below illustrates the impact of the unrealized mark to market gain and accrual gross margin loss on Powers total gross margin (revenue less cost of sales). The below chart does not reflect, however, cash flows that Power realized in 2005 from hedges for which mark to market gains or losses had been previously recognized. In 2005, Power had positive cash flows from operations. In addition to these declining margins, significant accruals for litigation contingencies, which were substantially resolved in 2006, and an impairment of an equity investment further adversely impacted Powers 2005 results. 47 Table of Contents In 2005, Power continued to focus on its objectives of minimizing financial risk, maximizing cash flow, meeting contractual commitments, executing new contracts to hedge its portfolio and providing functions that support our natural gas businesses. Key factors that may influence Powers financial condition and operating performance include: Prices of power and natural gas, including changes in the margin between power and natural gas prices; Changes in power and natural gas price volatility; Changes in power and natural gas supply and demand; Changes in the regulatory environment; The inability of counterparties to perform under contractual obligations due to their own credit constraints; Changes in interest rates; Changes in market liquidity, including changes in the ability to effectively hedge the portfolio. Outlook for 2006 For 2006, Power intends to service its customers needs while increasing the certainty of cash flows from its long term tolling contracts by executing new long term electricity and capacity sales contracts. In 2005 and early 2006, Power entered into electricity and capacity forward contracts with fixed sales prices for over 6,000 megawatts of capacity in total across various periods through 2010. Most of these contracts are treated on an accrual basis as either operating subleases or normal sales contracts under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (SFAS 133). As Power continues to apply hedge accounting in 2006, its future earnings may be less volatile. However, not all of Powers derivative contracts qualify for hedge accounting. Because the derivative contracts qualifying for hedge accounting were previously marked to market through earnings prior to their being designated as cash flow hedges, the amounts recognized in future earnings under hedge accounting will not necessarily align with the expected cash flows to be realized from the settlement of those derivatives. For example, to the extent that future earnings reflect losses from underlying transactions, such as natural gas purchases and power sales associated with tolling transactions, that have been hedged by the derivatives, the corresponding offsetting gains from the hedges have already been recognized in prior periods under mark to market accounting. However, cash flows from Powers portfolio continue to reflect the net amount from both the hedged transactions and the hedges. Even with the adoption of hedge accounting, Powers earnings will continue to reflect mark to market volatility from unrealized gains and losses resulting from: Market movements of commodity based derivatives that are held for trading purposes; Market movements of commodity based derivatives that represent economic hedges but which do not qualify for hedge accounting; Ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges, primarily caused by locational differences between the hedging derivative and the hedged item or changes in the creditworthiness of counterparties. The fair value of Powers tolling, full requirements, transportation, storage and transmission contracts is not reflected in the balance sheet since these contracts are not derivatives. Some of these contracts have a significant negative estimated fair value and could also result in future operating profits or losses as a result of the volatile nature of energy commodity markets. The inability of counterparties to perform under contractual obligations due to their own credit constraints could also affect future results. 48 Table of Contents Year Over Year Results Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (Millions) Realized revenues $ 8,921.8 $ 8,954.7 $ 12,930.5 Net forward unrealized mark to market gains 172.1 304.0 262.1 Segment revenues 9,093.9 9,258.7 13,192.6 Cost of sales 9,150.3 9,073.3 12,954.6 Gross margin (56.4 ) 185.4 238.0 Operating expenses 22.2 23.7 35.3 Selling, general and administrative expenses 64.5 83.2 124.0 Other (income) expense net 113.6 1.8 (56.4 ) Segment profit (loss) $ (256.7 ) $ 76.7 $ 135.1 2005 vs. 2004 The $164.8 million decrease in revenues includes a $32.9 million decrease in realized revenues and a $131.9 million decrease in net forward unrealized mark to market gains. Realized revenues represent (1) revenue from the sale of commodities or completion of energy related services, and (2) gains and losses from the net financial settlement of derivative contracts. The $32.9 million decrease in realized revenues is primarily due to the absence in 2005 of $471 million in crude and refined products realized revenues, partially offset by a $444 million increase in power and natural gas realized revenues. The absence of crude and refined products revenues is due to the sale of the refined products business in 2004. Power and natural gas realized revenues increased primarily due to a 33 percent increase in average natural gas sales prices and a 17 percent increase in average power sales prices. Hurricane Katrina, among other factors, contributed to the increase in prices. A 29 percent decrease in power sales volumes partially offsets the increase in prices. Power sales volumes decreased because Power did not replace certain long term physical contracts that expired or were terminated and because of mild weather in California, which resulted in lower demand. Net forward unrealized mark to market gains and losses represent changes in the fair values of certain derivative contracts with a future settlement or delivery date that have not been designated as cash flow hedges and the impact of the ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges. The $131.9 million decrease in net forward unrealized mark to market gains is primarily due to a $165 million decrease associated with power and gas derivative contracts, partially offset by the absence in 2005 of a $38 million unrealized loss on the interest rate portfolio in 2004. The decrease in power and gas unrealized mark to market gains primarily results from the impact of cash flow hedge accounting, which was prospectively applied to certain of Powers derivative contracts beginning October 1, 2004. Net unrealized gains of $711 million related to the effective portion of the hedges are reported in accumulated other comprehensive loss in 2005 compared to $15 million in 2004. If Power had not applied cash flow hedge accounting in 2005, we would have reported the $711 million in revenues instead of in accumulated other comprehensive loss. Also in 2005, Power recognized losses of $6.8 million representing a correction of unrealized losses associated with a prior year. Our management concluded that the effects of this correction are not material to prior periods, 2005 results, or our trend of earnings. Partially offsetting these decreases is the effect of a greater increase in forward power prices on a greater volume of power purchase contracts in 2005 compared to 2004, resulting in increased unrealized mark to market gains on net power derivatives that are not accounted for as cash flow hedges. 49 Table of Contents The absence in 2005 of the unrealized loss on the interest rate portfolio is due to the termination and liquidation of all remaining interest rate derivatives in fourth quarter 2004. A decrease in forward interest rates caused unrealized losses in the interest rate portfolio in 2004. The $77 million increase in Powers cost of sales is primarily due to an increase in power and natural gas costs of $563 million, partially offset by a decrease in crude and refined products costs of $486 million. Power and natural gas costs increased primarily due to a 32 percent increase in average power purchase prices and a 44 percent increase in average natural gas purchase prices, partially offset by a 29 percent decrease in power purchase volumes. Hurricane Katrina, among other factors, contributed to the increase in prices. Costs in 2005 include approximately $8 million in purchases due to an outage at an electric generating facility that Power has access to via a fuel conversion service agreement. A 2004 reduction to certain contingent loss accruals of $10.4 million associated with power marketing activities in California during 2000 and 2001 also contributes to the increase in costs. Costs in 2004 include $486 million of crude and refined products costs, which are absent in 2005 due to the sale of the refined products business in 2004. Costs in 2004 also reflect a $13 million payment made to terminate a nonderivative power sales contract. SG&A expenses decreased primarily due to decreased employee incentive compensation and decreased costs for outside services. A $9.7 million reduction of allowance for bad debts resulting from the sale of certain receivables to a third party also contributed to the decrease in SG&A expenses. SG&A expenses in 2004 include a $6.3 million reduction of allowance for bad debts resulting from a 2004 settlement with certain California utilities. Other (income) expense net in 2005 includes: An $82.2 million accrual for estimated litigation contingencies, primarily associated with agreements reached to substantially resolve exposure related to natural gas price and volume reporting issues (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); A $4.6 million accrual for a regulatory settlement; A $23 million impairment of an equity investment (see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Other (income) expense net in 2004 includes $6.1 million in fees related to the sale of certain receivables to a third party. Although increased gas prices favorably impacted the fair value of Powers derivative natural gas hedges, the $333.4 million change from a segment profit to a segment loss is primarily due to the impact of cash flow hedge accounting. Additionally, plant outages and depressed margin spreads between the cost of gas and sales price of electricity contributed to lower segment profit. Accruals in 2005 for litigation contingencies and an impairment of an equity investment also contribute to the change in segment profit (loss). Partially offsetting the decrease in segment profit is the absence in 2005 of unrealized and realized losses from the interest rate portfolio, which was liquidated in the fourth quarter of 2004. 2004 vs. 2003 The $3.9 billion decrease in revenues includes an approximately $4 billion decrease in realized revenues partially offset by a $41.9 million increase in net forward unrealized mark to market gains. The approximately $4 billion decrease in realized revenues is primarily due to an approximately $3.1 billion decrease in power and natural gas realized revenues and an $862 million decrease in crude and refined products realized revenues. Power and natural gas realized revenues decreased primarily due to a 47 percent decrease in power sales volumes, partially offset by a 5 percent increase in power sales prices. Sales volumes decreased because Power did not replace certain long term physical contracts that expired or were terminated in 2003, primarily due to a lack of market liquidity and past efforts to reduce our commitment to the Power business. In addition, results for 2003 include a realized gain of $126.8 million based on the terms of an agreement to terminate a derivative 50 Table of Contents contract. In addition, during 2003, revenues include the correction of the accounting treatment previously applied to certain third party derivative contracts during 2002 and 2001, resulting in the recognition of approximately $117 million in revenues attributable to prior periods. Refer to Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Additionally, power and natural gas revenues in 2003 include a $37 million reduction for increased power rate refunds owed to the state of California as the result of FERC rulings. Crude and refined products revenues decreased primarily due to the sale of the crude gathering business in 2003, the sale of the refined products business in 2004 and the past efforts to exit this line of business. In 2004, Power had net forward unrealized mark to market gains of $304 million, an increase of $41.9 million from 2003. The increase in unrealized gains is due to a $75 million increase associated with power and gas contracts, partially offset by an $11 million decrease in crude and refined products and a $22 million decrease in the interest rate portfolio. The increase in power and gas primarily results from a greater increase associated with near term natural gas forward prices in 2004 than in 2003. Also contributing to the increase was the absence in 2004 of unrealized losses of approximately $70 million recognized in first quarter 2003 on contracts for which we elected the normal purchases and sales exception in second quarter 2003. Another factor contributing to the increase was the impact of cash flow hedge accounting, which was prospectively applied to certain of Powers forecasted transactions beginning October 1, 2004. A net loss of $15 million related to the effective portion of the hedges was reported in accumulated other comprehensive income in 2004. The decrease in crude and refined products primarily results from the sale of the crude gathering business in 2003, the sale of the refined products business in 2004 and the past efforts to exit this line of business. These activities led to a significantly smaller derivative position in 2004 than in 2003 which resulted in lower unrealized mark to market gains. The decrease in the interest rate portfolio is due primarily to a decrease in forward interest rates in first quarter 2004 compared to a slight increase in first quarter 2003. The $3.9 billion decrease in Powers cost of sales is primarily due to a decrease in power and natural gas costs of approximately $3 billion and a decrease in crude and refined products costs of $904.5 million. Power and natural gas costs decreased primarily due to a 48 percent decrease in power purchase volumes, partially offset by a 2 percent increase in power prices. A $10.4 million reduction to certain contingent loss accruals in 2004 and a $13.8 million loss for other contingencies in 2003, both associated with power marketing activities in California during 2000 and 2001, contributed to the decrease in costs discussed above. Costs in 2004 also reflect a $13 million payment made to terminate a nonderivative power sales contract, which partially offsets the decrease in power and natural gas costs. Crude and refined products costs decreased primarily due to the sale of the crude gathering business in 2003, the sale of the refined products business in 2004, and other past efforts to exit this line of business. The $40.8 million decrease in SG&A expenses is largely due to a $36 million decline in compensation expense, primarily as a result of staff reductions in prior years combined with the accelerated recognition of $13.6 million in 2003 of certain deferred compensation arrangements. In addition, a $6.3 million reduction of allowance for bad debts resulting from the 2004 settlement with certain California utilities and the absence of a $6.5 million bad debt charge associated with a termination settlement in 2003 also contributed to the decrease. Other (income) expense net in 2004 includes $6.1 million in fees related to the sale of certain receivables to a third party. Other (income) expense net in 2003 includes a $188 million gain from the sale of an energy trading contract and a $13.8 million gain from the sale of certain investments. These income items are partially offset by the effect of the following 2003 items: A $20 million charge for a settlement with the CFTC; Accruals of $19.5 million for power marketing activities in California in prior periods (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); A $45 million impairment of goodwill; A $44.1 million impairment on a power generating facility (see Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); 51 Table of Contents A $14.1 million impairment associated with the Aux Sable partnership investment (see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The $58.4 million decrease in segment profit is primarily due to lower sales volumes and the absence in 2004 of income from certain terminated contracts and prior period adjustments and the effect of the other income changes noted above, partially offset by lower SG&A expense. Gas Pipeline Overview We operate, through our Northwest Pipeline and Transco subsidiaries, approximately 14,600 miles of pipeline from the Gulf Coast to the northeast United States and from northern New Mexico to the Pacific northwest with a total annual throughput of approximately 2,600 trillion BTUs. Additionally, we hold a 50 percent interest in Gulfstream Natural Gas System, L.L.C. (Gulfstream). This asset, which extends from the Mobile Bay area in Alabama to markets in Florida, has current transportation capacity of 1.1 billion cubic feet per day. Our strategy to create value for our shareholders focuses on maximizing the utilization of our pipeline capacity by providing high quality, low cost transportation of natural gas to large and growing markets. Gas Pipelines interstate transmission and storage activities are subject to regulation by the FERC and as such, our rates and charges for the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, and the extension, expansion or abandonment of jurisdictional facilities and accounting, among other things, are subject to regulation. The rates are established through the FERCs ratemaking process. Changes in commodity prices and volumes transported have little impact on revenues because the majority of cost of service is recovered through firm capacity reservation charges in transportation rates. Significant events of 2005 Grays Harbor Effective January 2005, Duke Energy Trading and Marketing, LLC (Duke) terminated its firm transportation agreement related to Northwest Pipelines Grays Harbor lateral. In January 2005, Duke paid Northwest Pipeline $94 million for the remaining book value of the asset and the related income taxes. We and Duke have not agreed on the amount of the income taxes due Northwest Pipeline as a result of the contract termination. We have deferred the $6 million difference between the proceeds and net book value of the lateral pending resolution of the disputed early termination obligation. On June 16, 2005, we filed a Petition for a Declaratory Order with the FERC requesting that it rule on our interpretation of our tariff to aid in resolving the dispute with Duke. On July 15, 2005, Duke filed a motion to intervene and provided comments supporting its position concerning the issues in dispute. Gulfstream pipeline expansions Gulfstream completed a major extension and began service under new contracts in 2005. In February, the 110 mile Phase II natural gas pipeline expansion was placed into service. This facilitated the increase of long term transportation volumes by 350 million cubic feet per day. In June, Gulfstream began incremental natural gas transportation service of 400,000 dekatherms per day (Dth/d) for two major Florida utilities. In August, Gulfstream established transportation service of up to 48,000 Dth/d for an additional Florida utility. With these additional agreements, Gulfstreams long term transportation commitment is now approximately 69 percent of total pipeline capacity. 52 Table of Contents Litigation related to recovery of fuel costs In August 2005, pursuant to a settlement agreement, we resolved all outstanding issues pertaining to a regulatory filing involving recovery of certain fuel costs in prior periods. As a result of this ruling, we recognized income of $14.2 million from the reversal of a related liability. Central New Jersey Expansion Project In November 2005, Transco began operation of the 3.5 mile Central New Jersey Expansion Project on our Transco natural gas pipeline system. The expansion provides an additional 105,000 Dth/d of firm natural gas transportation service in Transcos northeastern market area. The capacity has been fully subscribed by a single shipper for a twenty year term. Significant 2005 adjustments Operating results for the year include: Adjustments of $17.7 million were recorded, reflected as a $12.1 million reduction of costs and operating expenses and a $5.6 million reduction of SG&A expenses. These cost reductions were corrections of the carrying value of certain liabilities that were recorded in prior periods. Based on a review by management, these liabilities were no longer required. Pension expense was reduced by $17.1 million in the second quarter of 2005 to reflect the cumulative impact of a correction of an error attributable to 2003 and 2004. The error was associated with our third party actuarial computation of annual net periodic pension expense and resulted from the identification of errors in certain Transco participant data involving annuity contract information utilized for 2003 and 2004. Adjustments of $37.3 million reflected as increases in costs and operating expenses related to $32.1 million of prior period accounting and valuation corrections for certain inventory items and an accrual of $5.2 million for contingent refund obligations. Our management concluded that the effects of these adjustments are not material to our consolidated results for 2005 or prior periods, or to our trend of earnings. Outlook for 2006 Filing of rate cases During 2006, we will be focused on successfully filing rate cases for both Transco and Northwest Pipeline subsidiaries which are expected to result in new transportation and storage rates beginning in 2007. FERC Order Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Cost FERC Order Accounting for Pipeline Assessment Costs, effective January 1, 2006, requires FERC regulated companies to expense certain pipeline integrity related assessment costs that we have historically capitalized. As a result of this Order we anticipate expensing approximately $27 million to $35 million of costs expected to be incurred in 2006 that would have been capitalized prior to the Order becoming effective. Northwest pipeline capacity replacement project In September 2005, we received FERC approval to construct and operate approximately 80 miles of 36 inch pipeline loop, which will replace most of the capacity previously served by 268 miles of 26 inch pipeline in the Washington state area. The estimated cost of the project is $333 million, with an anticipated in service date of November 1, 2006. 53 Table of Contents Colorado gas pipeline expansion In January 2006, we filed an application with the FERC to construct a 38 mile expansion that would provide additional natural gas transportation capacity in northwest Colorado. The planned expansion would increase capacity by 450,000 Dth/d through the 30 inch diameter line and is estimated to cost $55 million. We are currently in discussions with shippers to determine the level of commitment and anticipate beginning service on the expansion in January 2007. Leidy to Long Island expansion project In December 2005, we filed an application with the FERC to construct an expansion of our existing facilities in the northeast United States. This project will provide 100,000 Dth/d of incremental firm capacity, which has been fully subscribed for a twenty year primary term. The estimated capital cost of the project is approximately $121 million with three quarters of that spending expected to occur in 2007. The expansion is expected to be in service by November 1, 2007. Year Over Year Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 1,412.8 $ 1,362.3 $ 1,368.3 Segment profit $ 585.8 $ 585.8 $ 555.5 During 2004, our management and decision making control of certain regulated gas gathering assets were transferred from our Midstream segment to our Gas Pipeline segment. Consequently, the results of operations were similarly reclassified and all prior periods reflect this reclassification. 2005 vs. 2004 The $50.5 million, or 4 percent, increase in Gas Pipeline revenues is due primarily to $86 million higher revenues associated with exchange imbalance cash out settlements (offset in costs and operating expenses). Partially offsetting this increase is $24 million lower transportation revenues due primarily to the termination of the Grays Harbor contract, and $11 million lower revenues associated with reimbursable costs, which are passed through to customers (offset in costs and operating expenses and SG&A expenses). Costs and operating expenses increased $109 million, or 16 percent, due primarily to: An increase in costs of $86 million associated with exchange imbalances (offset in revenues); The increase in costs of $32.1 million due to prior period accounting and valuation corrections related to inventory, as previously discussed; An increase in operating and maintenance expense of $14 million due primarily to increased contract service costs, materials and supplies and rental fees; The increase in costs of $5.2 million due to an accrual for contingent refund obligations, as previously discussed. Partially offsetting these increases are decreases due to: Income of $14.2 million associated with the resolution of the litigation related to recovery of gas costs; The cost reduction of $12.1 million due to adjusting the carrying value of certain liabilities as noted previously; Lower reimbursable costs of $5 million (offset in revenues). 54 Table of Contents SG&A expenses decreased approximately $38 million, or 31 percent, due to the $17.1 million reduction in pension costs to correct a prior period error, $6 million lower reimbursable costs (offset in revenues), and the reversal of $5.6 million of prior period accruals. Comparative segment profit is unchanged from 2004. The following are significant components of 2005 segment profit: The reduction in pension costs of $17.1 million to correct a prior period error; An increase in Gulfstream equity earnings of $14 million due to the realization of a $4.6 million construction fee award on the completion of the Phase II expansion project coupled with increased revenues associated with the Gulfstream expansions; Income of $14.2 million from the reversal of the contingency related to recovery of gas costs; The $17.7 million reversal of prior period accruals; The increase in costs of $32.1 million due to prior period accounting and valuation corrections related to inventory; An increase in operating and maintenance expense of $14 million due primarily to increased contract service costs, materials and supplies and rental fees; A decrease in transportation revenue of $24 million due primarily to the termination of the Grays Harbor contract. 2004 vs. 2003 The $6 million decrease in Gas Pipeline revenues is due to the following: A decrease in revenue of $25 million associated with reimbursable costs, which are passed through to customers (offset in costs and operating expenses and SG&A expenses); A decrease in revenues of $12 million due to lower environmental mitigation credits; A decrease in revenue of $9 million due to less short term revenues at Northwest Pipeline; A decrease in revenue of $5 million due to reduced commodity revenues at Transco. Partially offsetting these revenue reductions is $46 million higher transportation revenue primarily from expansion projects. Costs and operating expenses decreased $2 million due primarily to: A decrease in reimbursable costs of $18 million (offset in revenues); A decrease in expenses of $8.5 million related to adjustments to depreciation recognized in a prior period; A decrease in depreciation, depletion and amortization expense of $8 million related to capitalized environmental mitigation credits; The absence of a $4 million write off of certain receivables at Transco in 2003. These decreases were partially offset by: An increase in maintenance expense of $11 million; An increase in fuel expense of $10 million at Transco reflecting a reduction in pricing differentials on the volumes of gas used in operations as compared to 2003; An increase in costs of $7 million associated with exchange imbalances; An increase in regulatory charges of $5 million. 55 Table of Contents SG&A expenses decreased $11 million, or 9 percent, due primarily to $6 million lower reimbursable costs (offset in revenues) and $4 million lower rent resulting from the terms of a new office lease at Transco. Other (income) expense net in 2004 includes an approximate $9 million charge for the write off of previously capitalized costs incurred on an idled segment of Northwest Pipelines system that we determined will not be returned to service. Other (income) expense net in 2003 includes a $25.6 million charge at Northwest Pipeline to write off capitalized software development costs for a service delivery system following a decision not to implement and $7.2 million of income at Transco resulting from a reduction of accrued liabilities for claims associated with certain producers as a result of settlements and court rulings (see Royalty indemnifications in Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The $30.3 million, or 5 percent, increase in segment profit, which includes equity earnings and income (loss) from investments is due to the following: The absence of the 2003 $25.6 million charge discussed above; A $13.4 million increase in equity earnings due primarily from our investment in Gulfstream; A $12 million increase in revenues, excluding reimbursable costs that do not impact segment profit; A $5 million reduction in SG&A expense, excluding reimbursable costs that do not impact segment profit. These increases to segment profit were partially offset by: A $9 million charge for the write off of previously capitalized costs discussed above; A $9 million increase in costs and operating expenses, excluding reimbursable costs that do not impact segment profit; The absence of the 2003 $7.2 million of income resulting from a reduction of accrued liabilities. Exploration & Production Overview of 2005 In 2005, we continued our strategy to rapidly expand the development of our significant drilling inventory located in our key growth basins. Our major accomplishments for the year include: Increased average daily domestic production levels by approximately 18 percent from last year, surpassing our goal of 15 percent. The domestic average daily production for the year ending December 31, 2005, was approximately 612 million cubic feet of gas equivalent (MMcfe) compared to 519 MMcfe in 2004. 56 Table of Contents Domestic Production Growth 2005 domestic production grew 18 percent or 93 MMcfe per day over 2004 Benefited from higher market prices which, in turn, increased our net realized average prices received for production volumes sold. Net realized average prices include market prices, net of hedge positions, less gathering and transportation expenses. We realized net domestic average prices of $4.69 per thousand cubic feet of gas equivalent (Mcfe) compared with $3.17 per Mcfe in 2004, an increase of approximately 48 percent. Increased our development drilling program throughout 2005, surpassing annual drilling activities prior to 2005. We drilled 1,629 gross wells in 2005 compared to 1,395 in 2004. Capital expenditures for domestic drilling, development, and acquisition activity in 2005 were approximately $768 million compared to approximately $436 million in 2004. The benefits of higher production volumes and higher net realized average prices were partially offset by increased operating costs and increased derivative hedge losses in 2005. The increase in operating costs was primarily the result of escalated overall production and maintenance activities among oil and gas producers, which increased competition for drilling rigs and services in our basins. The increase in hedge losses was primarily due to higher market prices associated with our NYMEX collars and fixed hedge positions. Significant events of 2005 In March 2005, we entered into a contract for the operation of ten new drilling rigs, each for a lease term of three years. This arrangement supports our plan to accelerate the pace of natural gas development in the Piceance basin through both deployment of the additional rigs and also as a result of the drilling and operational efficiencies the new rigs are designed to deliver. We received our first two rigs in January and February 2006, and they have begun drilling. Although we originally expected to deploy one new rig per month beginning in November 2005, delays occurred as construction was impacted by the hurricanes experienced in the Gulf. During the second quarter of 2005, we acquired an acreage position with a few producing wells in the Fort Worth basin in north central Texas. In early January 2006, we increased our position in this basin. Our entry into this basin allows us to own an operated position that has potential for significant growth. It increases our diversification into the Mid Continent region and allows us to use our horizontal drilling expertise to develop wells in the Barnett Shale formation. 57 Table of Contents Outlook for 2006 Our expectations for 2006 include: Continuing our development drilling program in our key basins of Piceance, Powder River, San Juan, and Arkoma. We have increased our planned capital expenditures for 2006 to between $950 million and $1.05 billion. The ten new drilling rigs are dedicated specifically to drilling activity in the Piceance basin. Increasing our domestic average daily production level of 612 MMcfe for the year ending December 31, 2005, by 15 to 20 percent by the end of 2006. Approximately 299 MMcfe of our forecasted 2006 daily production of 750 to 825 MMcfe is hedged at prices that average $3.82 per Mcfe at a basin level. In addition, we entered into the following collar agreements: NYMEX collar agreement for approximately 50 MMcfe per day of our 2006 production at a floor price of $6.50 per Mcfe and a ceiling price of $8.25 per Mcfe; NYMEX collar agreement for approximately 15 MMcfe per day of our 2006 production at a floor price of $7.00 per Mcfe and a ceiling price of $9.00 per Mcfe; Northwest Pipeline/ Rockies collar agreement for approximately 50 MMcfe per day of our 2006 production at a floor price of $6.05 per Mcfe and a ceiling price of $7.90 per Mcfe at a basin level. Risks to achieving our objectives include drilling rig availability, including timely deliveries of the contracted new rigs, as well as obtaining permits as planned for drilling. Year Over Year Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 1,269.1 $ 777.6 $ 779.7 Segment profit $ 587.2 $ 235.8 $ 401.4 2005 vs. 2004 The $491.5 million, or 63 percent increase in revenues is primarily due to an increase in domestic production revenues of $434 million during 2005 reflecting higher net realized average prices and higher production volumes sold. Also contributing to the increase is a $58 million increase in revenues from gas management activities and $13 million increased production revenues from our international operations. Partially offsetting these increases is a $10 million loss due to hedge ineffectiveness. The increase in domestic production revenues primarily results from $319 million higher revenues associated with a 42 percent increase in net realized average prices for production sold as well as a $115 million increase associated with an 18 percent increase in average daily production volumes. The higher net realized average prices reflect the benefit of the lower volumes hedged in 2005 as compared to 2004 coupled with higher market prices for natural gas. The increase in production volumes primarily reflects an increase in the number of producing wells resulting from our successful 2005 drilling program. To manage the commodity price risk and volatility of owning producing gas properties, we enter into derivative forward sales contracts that economically lock in a price relating to a portion of our future production. Approximately 47 percent of domestic production in 2005 was hedged at a weighted average price of $3.99 per Mcfe at a basin level. In addition, we entered into the following collar agreements for 2005: NYMEX collar agreement for approximately 50 MMcfe per day for the first quarter of 2005 at a floor price of $7.50 per Mcfe and a ceiling price of $10.49 per Mcfe. 58 Table of Contents NYMEX collar agreement for approximately 50 MMcfe per day for the second, third and fourth quarter of 2005 at a floor price of $6.75 per Mcfe and a ceiling price of $8.50 per Mcfe. Northwest Pipeline/ Rockies collar agreement for approximately 50 MMcfe per day for the fourth quarter of 2005 at a floor price of $6.10 per Mcfe and a ceiling price of $7.70 per Mcfe at a basin level. These hedges are executed with our Power segment which, in turn, executes offsetting derivative contracts with unrelated third parties. Generally, Power bears the counterparty performance risks associated with unrelated third parties. Hedging decisions are made considering our overall commodity risk exposure and are not executed independently by Exploration & Production. Total costs and expenses increased $147 million, primarily due to the following: $62 million higher depreciation, depletion and amortization expense primarily due to higher production volumes and increased capitalized drilling costs; $16 million higher lease operating expense from the increased number of producing wells and generally higher industry costs; $23 million higher operating taxes primarily due to increased market prices and production volumes sold; $18 million higher SG&A expenses primarily due to higher compensation and increased staffing in 2005 in support of increased drilling and operational activity; $58 million higher gas management expenses associated with higher revenues from gas management activities; $11 million lower gain in 2005 than in 2004 on the sale of securities associated with our coal seam royalty trust that were previously purchased for resale. These increased costs and expenses are partially offset by the absence in 2005 of a $15.4 million loss provision related to an ownership dispute on prior period production in 2004, a $7.9 million gain on the sale of an undeveloped leasehold position in Colorado in the first quarter of 2005, and a $21.7 million gain on the sale of certain outside operated properties in the Powder River basin area of Wyoming in the third quarter of 2005. The $351.4 million increase in segment profit is primarily due to increased revenues from higher volumes and higher net realized average prices, as well as the gains on sales of assets, partially offset by higher expenses as discussed above. Segment profit also includes a $19 million increase reflecting higher revenues and equity earnings resulting from higher net realized oil and gas prices primarily from our Apco Argentina operations. 2004 vs. 2003 The $2.1 million, or less than 1 percent, decrease in revenues is primarily due to the absence of $24 million in income realized during 2003 from derivative instruments that did not qualify for hedge accounting, partially offset by an increase in domestic production revenues of $22 million during 2004. The increase in domestic production revenues primarily results from $49 million higher revenues associated with a 9 percent increase in production volumes partially offset by $27 million lower revenues associated with a 4 percent decrease in net realized average prices for production sold. Net realized average prices include the effect of hedge positions which were at prices below market levels. The increase in production volumes primarily reflects an increase in the number of producing wells resulting from our successful 2004 drilling program. Approximately 77 percent of domestic production in 2004 was hedged at a weighted average price of $3.65 per MMcfe at a basin level. 59 Table of Contents Total costs and expenses increased $167 million, which includes the absence of $95 million in net gains on sales of assets occurring in 2003. The remaining increase in costs and expenses primarily reflects: $18 million higher depreciation, depletion and amortization expense primarily from increased production volumes as well as increased capitalized drilling costs that reflect greater levels of drilling and increased prices for tubular goods occurring in response to supply conditions in the worldwide steel market; $20 million higher lease operating expense associated with the higher number of producing wells and increased well maintenance activities, higher labor and fuel costs, and increased overhead payments to another operator; $17 million higher operating taxes due primarily to increased production volumes sold; A $16 million gain from the sales of securities, associated with a coal seam royalty trust, that were previously purchased for resale; A $15.4 million loss provision regarding an ownership dispute on prior period production. The $165.6 million decrease in segment profit is due primarily to the absence of $95 million in net gains on sales of assets occurring in 2003, the increase in operating expenses, and the loss provision of $15.4 million relating to an ownership dispute on prior period production partially offset by the $16 million gain attributable to the sales of securities associated with our coal seam royalty trust that were purchased for resale. Segment profit also includes $25 million and $18 million related to international activities for 2004 and 2003, respectively. This increase is primarily driven by the improved operating results of Apco Argentina. Midstream Gas & Liquids Overview of 2005 In 2005, Midstreams ongoing strategy was to safely and reliably operate large scale midstream infrastructure where our assets can be fully utilized and drive low per unit costs. Our business is focused on consistently attracting new volumes to our assets by providing highly reliable service to our customers. The following factors influenced our business in 2005: Formation of Williams Partners L.P. In February 2005, we formed Williams Partners L.P., a limited partnership, to complement our business strategy by providing access to a lower cost of capital to further expand the scale of our operations. On August 23, 2005, we completed our initial public offering (IPO) of five million common units of Williams Partners L.P. at a price of $21.50 per unit. The underwriters also fully exercised their option to purchase an additional 750,000 common units at the same price. Williams Partners L.P. owns a 40 percent equity investment in the Discovery gathering, transportation, processing and natural gas liquids (NGL) fractionation system; the Carbonate Trend sour gas gathering pipeline; three integrated NGL storage facilities near Conway, Kansas; and a 50 percent interest in an NGL fractionator near Conway, Kansas. Upon completion of the transaction, we held approximately 60 percent of the limited partnership units in Williams Partners L.P. and 100 percent of the general partner, Williams Partners GP, LLC. Impact of hurricanes Hurricanes Dennis, Katrina and Rita caused temporary shut downs of most of our facilities and our producers facilities in the Gulf Coast region, which reduced product flows resulting in lower segment profit of an estimated $17 million, which includes our insured property damage deductible, in the second half of 2005. Our major facilities resumed normal operations shortly after the passage of each hurricane except for our Devils Tower spar and Cameron Meadows gas processing plant. The Devils Tower deepwater spar was shut in on August 27, 2005, due to Hurricane Katrina and returned to service in early November. The Cameron Meadows natural gas processing plant near Johnson Bayou, Louisiana sustained significant damage from 60 Table of Contents Hurricane Rita on September 24, 2005. The plant returned to limited service in February 2006. We are pursuing a business interruption claim with our insurance carrier but have not recognized any amounts related to this pending claim. Expansion efforts in growth areas Consistent with our strategy, we continued to expand our Midstream operations where we have large scale assets in growth basins. On October 5, 2005, we signed definitive agreements to construct, own and operate a 37 mile extension of our oil and gas pipelines from our Devils Tower spar to the Blind Faith prospect located in Mississippi Canyon. This extension, estimated to cost $177 million, is expected to be ready for service by the third quarter of 2007. Also, in September we received Board approval to expand our existing gas processing plant located near Opal, Wyoming, by adding a fifth cryogenic train capable of processing up to 350 MMcfd. This plant expansion is expected to be in service by the second quarter of 2007 to begin processing gas from the Pinedale Anticline field. Favorable commodity price margins The actual realized NGL per unit margins at our processing plants exceeded Midstreams historical five year annual average for the last six quarters. However, the industry benchmark for NGL fractionation spreads at Mont Belvieu, Texas was 40 percent below 2004 fractionation spreads. The geographic diversification of Midstream assets contributed significantly to our actual realized unit margins exceeding the industry benchmark at Mont Belvieu for gas processing spreads. The largest impact is realized at our western United States gas processing plants, which benefit from lower regional market natural gas prices. A decline in volumes in recent quarters is largely due to the third quarter impact of summer hurricanes on our Gulf Coast facilities as well as lower fourth quarter NGL recoveries at our West region plants. The lower NGL recoveries in the West were the result of intermittent periods in which the spread between NGL and natural gas prices was such that it was uneconomical to recover NGLs. Domestic Gathering and Processing Net Per Unit NGL Margin with Production and Sales Volumes by Quarter 61 Table of Contents Outlook for 2006 The following factors could impact our business in 2006 and beyond. As evidenced in recent years, natural gas and crude oil markets are highly volatile despite above average margins at our gas processing plants in recent years. Although NGL margins earned at our gas processing plants in 2005 were above the five year average, we expect unit margins in 2006 to trend downward towards historical averages. Both gathering and processing volumes at our facilities are also expected to be at or above levels of previous years due to continued strong drilling activities in our core basins. We expect continued expansion of our gathering and processing systems in our Gulf Coast and West regions to keep pace with increased demand for our services. In 2006, we will continue to invest in facilities in the growth basins in which we provide services. The phase I expansion of our Wamsutter gathering system is scheduled to be operational during the first quarter of 2006. Based on recent market price forecasts, we anticipate olefins unit margins to be somewhat lower than 2005 levels. As disclosed in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of this Item 7, it is possible that our investment in our Canadian olefins assets may not be recoverable without modification to or a renegotiation of key terms in an off gas processing agreement. We are evaluating our alternatives and will continue to monitor the recoverability of our investment. We expect continued growth in the deepwater areas of the Gulf of Mexico to contribute to, and become a larger component of, our future segment revenues and segment profit. We expect these additional fee based revenues to lower our proportionate exposure to commodity price risks. Revenues from deepwater production areas are often subject to risks associated with the interruption and timing of product flows which can be influenced by weather and other third party operational issues. Year Over Year Results Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 3,232.7 $ 2,882.6 $ 2,784.8 Segment profit (loss) Domestic gathering & processing 379.7 385.8 314.1 Venezuela 94.7 85.6 76.4 Other 62.3 134.0 (139.4 ) Unallocated general and administrative expense (65.5 ) (55.7 ) (53.8 ) Total $ 471.2 $ 549.7 $ 197.3 In order to provide additional clarity, our management discussion and analysis of operating results separately reflects the portion of general and administrative expense not allocated to an asset group as Unallocated general and administrative expense above. These charges represent any overhead cost not directly attributable to one of the specific asset groups noted in this discussion. 2005 vs. 2004 The $350.1 million increase in Midstreams revenues is largely due to higher commodity prices, offset slightly by lower sales volumes. Revenues associated with production of NGLs increased $72 million, of which $180 million is due to higher NGL prices partially offset by $108 million due to lower sales volumes. The 62 Table of Contents decline in sales volumes in our Gulf Coast region is largely due to the impact of summer hurricanes, while the West region decline is largely due to the higher levels of NGL rejection as well as maintenance issues with our gas processing facility at Opal, Wyoming. Crude marketing revenues increased $196 million as a result of the start up of a deepwater pipeline in the second quarter of 2004 while the marketing of NGLs increased $58 million as a result of both higher prices and additional spot sales. Both of these increases are offset by similar increases in costs. In addition, fee revenues increased $21 million in part due to higher customer production volumes flowing to our West region and deepwater assets. Costs and operating expenses increased $364.1 million primarily in support of higher revenues noted above. Costs related to the production of NGLs increased $92 million as a result of $100 million in higher natural gas purchases due largely to higher prices, partially offset by lower volumes. In addition, operating expenses increased $33 million mostly due to higher fuel expense and commodity costs associated with our NGL storage and fractionation business and higher depreciation expense. Similar to the impact to revenues, total costs and operating expenses also increased $196 million due to higher crude marketing purchases and $58 million related to the marketing of NGLs and additional spot purchases. The $78.5 million decline in Midstream segment profit is primarily due to the absence of the $93.6 million gain from the Gulf Liquids insurance arbitration award in 2004. The offsetting increase in segment profit is primarily due to higher fee revenues from our gathering and processing and Venezuela businesses and higher earnings from our investment in the Discovery Partnership, partially offset by lower net NGL margins and higher operating costs. A more detailed analysis of the segment profit of Midstreams various operations is presented below. Domestic gathering & processing The $6.1 million decrease in domestic gathering and processing segment profit includes a $30 million decline in the Gulf Coast region, largely offset by a $24 million increase in the West region. The $24 million increase in our West regions segment profit primarily results from higher gathering and processing fee revenues, and the absence of an asset write down and other 2004 charges, offset partially by higher operating expenses and lower net NGL margins. The significant drivers to these items are as follows: Gathering and processing fee revenues increased $18 million primarily as a result of higher average per unit gathering and processing rates and higher volumes in the Rocky Mountain production area due to increased drilling activity. A portion of this increase is also due to the increase in volumes subject to fee based processing contracts. Other (income) expense net had a favorable variance of $10 million primarily due to the absence of the write down of $7.6 million for an idle treating facility in 2004. Net NGL margins decreased $6 million due to a $17 million impact from a decline in sales volumes resulting from lower fourth quarter NGL recoveries caused by intermittent periods of uneconomical market commodity prices and a power outage and associated operational issues at our Opal, Wyoming facility. Net NGL margins are defined as NGL revenues less BTU replacement cost, plant fuel, transportation and fractionation expense. The impact of lower volumes is partially offset by an $11 million impact of higher per unit NGL margins. The $30 million decrease in the Gulf Coast regions segment profit is primarily a result of higher operating and depreciation expenses and lower net liquids margins. The significant components of this decline include the following: Operating expenses increased $10 million primarily due to higher maintenance expenses related to our gathering assets, compressor overhauls, and an increase in hurricane related costs of $2 million. Inspection and repair expenses related to the hurricanes are being recorded as incurred up to the level of our insurance deductible. Depreciation expense increased $13 million primarily due to placing in service our Devils Tower spar and associated deepwater gas and oil pipelines in May and June 2004, respectively. 63 Table of Contents Liquids margins declined $14 million due to lower volumes, largely due to the impact of summer hurricanes, and the increase in natural gas prices. While revenues from the Devils Tower deepwater facility are recognized as volumes are delivered over the life of the reserves, cash payments from our customers are based on a contractual fixed fee received over a defined term. As a result, $44 million of cash received in 2005, which is included in cash flow from operations, was deferred at December 31, 2005 and will be recognized as revenue in periods subsequent to 2005. The total amount deferred for all years as of December 31, 2005 was $80 million. Venezuela Segment profit for our Venezuela assets increased $9.1 million as a result of higher plant volumes and higher equity earnings from our investment in the ACCROVEN partnership. The higher equity earnings are largely due to the renegotiation of a power supply contract and the absence of 2004 legal fees associated with the Jose Terminal. Other The $71.7 million decrease in segment profit of our other operations is largely due to the absence of the $93.6 million gain from the Gulf Liquids insurance arbitration award and a $9.5 million gain on the sale of the Choctaw ethylene distribution assets in 2004 partially offset by $7 million in higher olefins and commodity margins, $6 million in higher earnings from our equity investment in the Discovery partnership, and the absence of a 2004 $16.9 million impairment charge also related to our equity investment in the Discovery partnership. Unallocated general and administrative expense The $9.8 million unfavorable variance for our unallocated general and administrative expense is primarily due to higher employee expenses and administrative costs associated with the creation of Williams Partners, L.P. 2004 vs. 2003 The $97.8 million increase in Midstreams revenues is primarily the result of favorable commodity prices on our gas processing and olefins businesses, largely offset by lower trading revenues resulting from the fourth quarter 2003 sale of our wholesale propane business. Revenues associated with production of NGLs increased $417 million, of which $214 million is due to higher volumes and $203 million is due to higher NGL prices. Olefins revenues increased $223 million as a result of both higher market prices and higher volumes. In addition, our deepwater service revenues increased $9 million due to the addition of new infrastructure. Other factors affecting total revenues include approximately $1 billion in lower trading revenues resulting from the fourth quarter 2003 sale of our wholesale propane business, partially offset by a $263 million increase as the result of marketing NGLs on behalf of our customers. Before 2004, our purchases of customers NGLs were netted within revenues. In 2004, these purchases of customers NGLs are included in costs and operating expenses which substantially offset the change in revenues. Of this $263 million increase, approximately $146 million results from the difference in financial reporting presentation; the remaining increase is due to higher NGL volumes and prices. Also partially offsetting the lower trading revenues is $141 million in higher crude sales associated with the 2004 startup of one of our deepwater pipelines, which is offset in costs and operating expenses. Costs and operating expenses decreased $56 million primarily as a result of approximately $1 billion in lower trading costs due to the sale of our wholesale propane business in 2003. This decline was partially offset by $312 million in higher costs related to the production of NGLs and $157 million in higher costs related to the production of olefins products. These costs increased as a result of both the higher production volumes noted above and the higher prices for natural gas and olefins feedstock. Maintenance and depreciation expenses increased $33 million in large part due to newly constructed deepwater assets. Similar to the impact to revenues, total costs and operating expenses increased $263 million due to the marketing of NGLs on behalf of customers and $141 million in higher crude purchases related to the same deepwater pipeline mentioned above. 64 Table of Contents The $352.4 million increase in Midstream segment profit includes the $93.6 million gain from the Gulf Liquids insurance arbitration award in 2004 and the absence of a $108.7 million impairment charge in 2003 related to these same assets, both of which are included in other (income) expense net, within operating income. The remaining increase in segment profit is primarily due to higher NGL and olefins production volume and unit margins, higher service revenues, and reduced general and administrative expenses. These increases are partially offset by higher operating expenses and asset impairment charges. A more detailed analysis of segment profit of Midstreams various operations is presented below. Domestic gathering & processing The $71.7 million increase in domestic gathering and processing segment profit includes a $64.1 million increase in the West region and a $7.6 million increase in the Gulf Coast region. The $64.1 million increase in our West regions segment profit reflects higher NGL volume and unit margins offset by lower fee revenues and higher operating expenses. Our West regions net NGL margins for 2004 increased $69 million compared to the same period in 2003. Net NGL margins are defined as NGL revenues less BTU replacement cost, plant fuel, transportation and fractionation expense. Average per unit NGL margins increased 49 percent and comprised $51 million of the increase in NGL margins. As a result of the higher spread between the prices of NGLs and natural gas, our West plants operated at near capacity and produced 21 percent higher volumes comprising the remaining $18 million increase in NGL net margins. The $7.6 million increase in our Gulf Coast regions segment profit is due to higher NGL margins partially offset by lower fee revenues and higher depreciation expense. The significant components of the net increase include the following: Net NGL margins at our Gulf Coast gas processing plants increased $35 million due to a 101 percent increase in NGL production volumes which represented $28 million of the increase in margins. The significantly higher NGL volumes were driven by the favorable spread between NGL and natural gas prices coupled with the recently completed production handling infrastructure flowing additional deepwater gas production to our plants. Per unit margins in the Gulf Coast region increased 13 percent and comprised the remaining $7 million increase in net NGL margins. Segment profit from our deepwater assets declined $20 million primarily due to $29 million in higher costs associated with assets placed into service in the first two quarters of 2004 partially offset by $9 million in higher services revenues. The increase in revenues includes $22 million in incremental revenues from newly constructed assets partially offset by a $13 million decline in handling and gathering revenues due to lower production volumes on other deepwater assets substantially resulting from the effects of Hurricane Ivan. While revenues from the Devils Tower deepwater facility are recognized as volumes are delivered over the life of the reserves, cash payments from our customers are based on a contractual fixed fee received over a defined term. As a result, $36 million of cash received, which is included in cash flow from operations, was deferred at December 31, 2004 and will be recognized as revenue in periods subsequent to 2004. Venezuela The $9.2 million increase in segment profit for our Venezuelan assets is primarily due to the absence of the financial impact of a fire at the El Furrial facility that reduced revenues by $10 million in the first quarter of 2003. Other The $273.4 million increase in segment profit in our other businesses includes the $93.6 million Gulf Liquids insurance arbitration award and the absence of $108.7 million in Gulf Liquids impairment charges in 2003. The remaining increase is comprised of the following: Combined margins from our olefins businesses improved $66 million reflecting the overall improvement in olefins pricing and higher production volumes. Market prices for ethylene and propylene products increased due to higher demand and lower inventories. Production volumes increased as a 65 Table of Contents result of increased spot sales and the new higher fixed margin contract at our Giesmar facility while our Canadian and Gulf Liquids volumes benefited from improved plant operations. The favorable variances above are partially offset by a 2004 $16.9 million impairment charge related to our equity investment in the Discovery partnership, reflecting managements assessment that there was an other than temporary decline in the value of this investment. Other Overview of 2005 As discussed below, the $105 million 2005 Other segment loss is primarily associated with our equity method investment in Longhorn. Shipping volumes on the Longhorn pipeline declined significantly during the second quarter of 2005 compared to those experienced in the first quarter. The decline was due primarily to the impact of significant changes in transportation pricing competition and economics in the wake of significantly higher crude oil prices. Longhorn management indicated that the shortfall in volumes was likely to continue and that continued operation as originally planned was no longer economically feasible. As a result, the owners and management of Longhorn began evaluating several alternatives for the future operation of Longhorn. To ensure adequate liquidity to continue operations while assessing alternatives, during the third quarter of 2005 Longhorn obtained a $25 million bridge loan commitment from existing investors. The loan is secured by a first lien on the assets of Longhorn. We have fully funded our $10 million commitment of this loan, which has a one year term and an interest rate of 14 percent. Our receivable related to this loan is included in accounts and notes receivable on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The loan agreement allows for an additional $25 million loan, secured by the same first lien on the assets of Longhorn. All existing investors will have the opportunity to participate in funding the second $25 million increment. We do not expect to participate as a lender in this additional increment. Based on managements outlook for Longhorn at the end of the second quarter, we assessed our investment in Longhorn to determine if there had been an other than temporary decline in its fair value. As a result, we recorded an impairment of $49.1 million during the second quarter of 2005. In the fourth quarter of 2005, management of Longhorn decided to pursue a strategy of the sale of Longhorn. As a result, Longhorn is negotiating a purchase and sale agreement. Based on initial indications from potential buyers, we determined that our Longhorn investment would require full impairment. Therefore, in fourth quarter 2005, we recorded a $38.1 million impairment to write off the remaining investment in Longhorn. On April 1, 2005, we completed a contract to transfer our Longhorn operating agreement to a new operator in exchange for payments of approximately $285,000 a month, adjusted for inflation, over the next seven years. The transfer became effective May 1, 2005. Realization of the Longhorn operating agreement payments is dependent upon the continued operation of Longhorn. Any payments received as a result of the ongoing payment stream or through monetization of the contract will be recognized as income when received. Outlook for 2006 Projected volumes indicate that Longhorn will continue to operate at a loss until a sale is complete. However, as a result of the full write off of our investment in Longhorn during the fourth quarter of 2005, we will no longer recognize equity losses associated with this investment. We currently expect to receive full payment on the $10 million bridge loan from the proceeds of the sale. Year Over Year Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 27.2 $ 32.8 $ 72.0 Segment loss $ (105.0 ) $ (41.6 ) $ (50.5 ) 66 Table of Contents 2005 vs. 2004 Other segment loss for 2005 includes $87.2 million of impairment charges, of which $38.1 million was recorded during the fourth quarter, related to our investment in Longhorn. In a related matter, we wrote off $4 million of capitalized project costs associated with Longhorn. We also recorded $23.7 million of equity losses associated with our investment in Longhorn. Partially offsetting these charges and losses was a $9 million fourth quarter gain on the sale of land. Other segment loss for 2004 includes $11.8 million of accrued environmental remediation expense associated with the Augusta refinery. Also included in Other segment loss is $10.8 million of impairment charges related to our investment in Longhorn, $9.8 million of equity losses associated with our investment in Longhorn, and $6.5 million of net unreimbursed advisory fees related to the recapitalization of Longhorn. 2004 vs. 2003 Other segment revenues for 2003 includes approximately $22 million of revenues related to certain butane blending assets, which were sold during third quarter 2003. Other segment loss for 2004 includes various items which are discussed above. Other segment loss for 2003 includes a $43.1 million impairment related to our investment in equity and debt securities of Longhorn. 67 Table of Contents Energy Trading Activities Fair Value of Trading and Nontrading Derivatives The chart below reflects the fair value of derivatives held for trading purposes as of December 31, 2005. We have presented the fair value of assets and liabilities by the period in which we expect them to be realized. Net Assets (Liabilities) Trading (Millions) To be To be To be To be To be Realized in Realized in Realized in Realized in Realized in 1 12 Months 13 36 Months 36 60 Months 61 120 Months 121+ Months Net (Year 1) (Years 2 3) (Years 4 5) (Years 6 10) (Years 11+) Fair Value $ $ (4 ) $ $ $ $ (4 ) As the table above illustrates, we are not materially engaged in trading activities. However, we hold a substantial portfolio of nontrading derivative contracts. Nontrading derivative contracts are those that hedge or could possibly hedge on an economic basis forecasted transactions. We have designated certain of these contracts as cash flow hedges of Powers forecasted purchases of gas, and purchases and sales of power related to its long term structured contracts and owned generation and Exploration & Productions forecasted sales of natural gas production. We began applying cash flow hedge accounting in our Power business in the fourth quarter of 2004, after we decided to cease efforts to exit and to continue to operate the Power business. Many of these derivatives had an existing fair value prior to their designation as cash flow hedges. Certain of Powers other derivatives have not been designated as or do not qualify as SFAS 133 cash flow hedges. The chart below reflects the fair value of derivatives held for nontrading purposes as of December 31, 2005, for both the Power and Exploration & Production businesses. Of the total fair value of nontrading derivatives, SFAS 133 cash flow hedges had a net liability value of $6 million as of December 31, 2005, which includes the existing fair value of the derivatives at the time of their designation as SFAS 133 cash flow hedges. Net Assets (Liabilities) Nontrading (Millions) To be To be To be To be To be Realized in Realized in Realized in Realized in Realized in 1 12 Months 13 36 Months 36 60 Months 61 120 Months 121+ Months Net (Year 1) (Years 2 3) (Years 4 5) (Years 6 10) (Years 11+) Fair Value $ (219 ) $ 68 $ 240 $ 17 $ $ 106 Methods of Estimating Fair Value Most of the derivatives we hold settle in active periods and markets in which quoted market prices are available. These include futures contracts, option contracts, swap agreements and physical commodity purchases and sales in the commodity markets in which we transact. While an active market may not exist for the entire period, quoted prices can generally be obtained for natural gas through 2012 and power through 2010. These prices reflect current economic and regulatory conditions and may change because of market conditions. The availability of quoted market prices in active markets varies between periods and commodities based upon changes in market conditions. The ability to obtain quoted market prices also varies greatly from region to region. The time periods noted above are an estimation of aggregate availability of quoted prices. An immaterial portion of our total net derivative value of $102 million relates to periods in which active quotes cannot be obtained. We estimate energy commodity prices in these illiquid periods by incorporating information about commodity prices in actively quoted markets, quoted prices in less active markets, and other market fundamental analysis. Modeling and other valuation techniques, however, are not used significantly in determining the fair value of our derivatives. 68 Table of Contents Counterparty Credit Considerations We include an assessment of the risk of counterparty nonperformance in our estimate of fair value for all contracts. Such assessment considers (1) the credit rating of each counterparty as represented by public rating agencies such as Standard & Poors and Moodys Investors Service, (2) the inherent default probabilities within these ratings, (3) the regulatory environment that the contract is subject to and (4) the terms of each individual contract. Risks surrounding counterparty performance and credit could ultimately impact the amount and timing of expected cash flows. We continually assess this risk. We have credit protection within various agreements to call on additional collateral support if necessary. At December 31, 2005, we held collateral support, including letters of credit, of $607 million. We also enter into netting agreements to mitigate counterparty performance and credit risk. During 2005 and 2004, we did not incur any significant losses due to recent counterparty bankruptcy filings. The gross credit exposure from our derivative contracts as of December 31, 2005, is summarized below. Investment Counterparty Type Grade(a) Total (Millions) Gas and electric utilities $ 542.2 $ 572.2 Energy marketers and traders 3,930.1 7,568.6 Financial institutions 1,851.1 1,851.1 Other .4 1.7 $ 6,323.8 9,993.6 Credit reserves (37.0 ) Gross credit exposure from derivatives $ 9,956.6 We assess our credit exposure on a net basis. The net credit exposure from our derivatives as of December 31, 2005, is summarized below. Investment Counterparty Type Grade(a) Total (Millions) Gas and electric utilities $ 129.4 $ 142.1 Energy marketers and traders 401.1 976.7 Financial institutions 36.1 36.1 Other .4 1.4 $ 567.0 1,156.3 Credit reserves (37.0 ) Net credit exposure from derivatives $ 1,119.3 (a) We determine investment grade primarily using publicly available credit ratings. We included counterparties with a minimum Standard & Poors rating of BBB or Moodys Investors Service rating of Baa3 in investment grade. We also classify counterparties that have provided sufficient collateral, such as cash, standby letters of credit, adequate parent company guarantees, and property interests, as investment grade. Trading Policy We have policies and procedures that govern our trading and risk management activities. These policies cover authority and delegation thereof in addition to control requirements, authorized commodities and term and exposure limitations. Powers value at risk is limited in aggregate and calculated at a 95 percent confidence level. 69 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition Outlook We believe we have, or have access to, the financial resources and liquidity necessary to meet future requirements for working capital, capital and investment expenditures and debt payments while maintaining a sufficient level of liquidity to reasonably protect against unforeseen circumstances requiring the use of funds. In 2006, we expect to continue to reduce debt through scheduled debt payments and exchanges, while maintaining liquidity from cash and unused revolving credit facilities of at least $1 billion. We are maintaining this level as we consider the potential impact of significant changes in commodity prices, contract margin requirements above current levels, unplanned capital spending needs and the need to meet near term scheduled debt payments. We expect to fund capital and investment expenditures, debt payments, dividends, and working capital requirements through cash flow from operations, which is currently estimated to be between $1.6 billion and $1.9 billion in 2006, proceeds from debt issuances and sales of units of Williams Partners, L.P., as well as cash and cash equivalents on hand as needed. We enter 2006 positioned for growth through disciplined investments in our natural gas businesses. Examples of this planned growth include: Gas Pipeline will continue to expand its system to meet the demand of growth markets. Additionally, Northwest Pipeline will construct an 80 mile pipeline loop, which will replace most of the capacity previously served by 268 miles of pipeline in the Washington state area. Exploration & Productions March 2005 operating lease agreement will provide access to ten new drilling rigs each for a lease term of three years that will allow us to accelerate the pace of developing our natural gas reserves in the Piceance basin through both deployment of the additional rigs and the rigs designed drilling and operational efficiencies. We received our first two rigs in January and February 2006 and they have begun drilling. Midstream will continue to pursue significant deepwater production commitments and expand capacity in the western United States. We estimate capital and investment expenditures will total approximately $2 billion to $2.2 billion in 2006. Of the total estimated capital expenditures for 2006, $950 million to $1.1 billion is for capital expenditures at Exploration & Production. Also within the total estimated expenditures for 2006 is approximately $616 million to $681 million for maintenance related projects at Gas Pipeline, including pipeline replacement and Clean Air Act compliance. Commitments for construction and acquisition of property, plant and equipment are approximately $222 million at December 31, 2005. In November 2005, we initiated an offer to induce conversion of up to $300 million of the 5.5 percent junior subordinated convertible debentures into our common stock. The conversion was executed in January 2006 and approximately $220.2 million of the debentures were exchanged for common stock. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. We have proposed to sell an approximate 25 percent interest in our gathering and processing assets in the Four Corners area to Williams Partners L.P. The terms of this proposed transaction, including price, will be subject to the approval of our board of directors and the board of directors of the general partner of Williams Partners L.P. Potential risks associated with our planned levels of liquidity and the planned capital and investment expenditures discussed above include: Lower than expected levels of cash flow from operations due to commodity pricing volatility. To mitigate this exposure, Exploration & Production has economically hedged the price of natural gas for approximately 414 MMcfe per day of its expected 2006 production of 750 to 825 MMcfe per day. Power has entered into fixed forward sales contracts that economically cover substantially all of its fixed demand obligations through 2010. 70 Table of Contents Sensitivity of margin requirements associated with our marginable commodity contracts. As of December 2005, we estimate our exposure to additional margin requirements over the next 360 days to be no more than $567 million, using a statistical analysis at a 99 percent confidence level. Exposure associated with our efforts to resolve regulatory and litigation issues (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Overview Liquidity Our internal and external sources of liquidity include cash generated from our operations, bank financings, proceeds from asset sales and issuance of long term debt and equity securities. While most of our sources are available to us at the parent level, others are available to certain of our subsidiaries, including equity issuances from Williams Partners, L.P. Our ability to raise funds in the capital markets will be impacted by our financial condition, interest rates, market conditions, and industry conditions. Available Liquidity Year Ended December 31, 2005 (Millions) Cash and cash equivalents* $ 1,597.2 Auction rate securities and other liquid securities 122.9 Available capacity under our four unsecured revolving and letter of credit facilities totaling $1.2 billion 64.5 Available capacity under our $1.275 billion secured revolving and letter of credit facility** 897.0 $ 2,681.6 Additional Liquidity Shelf registration for a variety of debt and equity securities $ 2,200.0 Shelf registration for debt only available to Northwest Pipeline and Transco*** $ 350.0 * Cash and cash equivalents includes $320.7 million of funds received from third parties as collateral. The obligation for these amounts is reported as customer margin deposits payable on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. ** This facility is secured by the common stock of Transco and guaranteed by Williams Gas Pipeline Company, L.L.C. Northwest Pipeline and Transco each have access to $400 million under this facility to the extent not utilized by us. Williams Partners L.P. has access to $75 million, to the extent not utilized by us that we guarantee. *** The ability of Northwest Pipeline to utilize these registration statements for debt securities is restricted by certain covenants of its debt agreements. So long as our credit rating is below investment grade, Northwest Pipeline and Transco can only use their shelf registration statements to issue debt if such debt is guaranteed by us. Financial ratios and credit ratings One of our objectives for 2006 is to continue the improvement in our financial ratios, with the ultimate goal of achieving ratios comparable to investment grade rated companies at some point in the future. Our end of year debt to capitalization ratio is 58.7 percent in 2005, 61.6 percent in 2004 and 74.5 percent in 2003. We expect the ratio to be 55 to 57 percent for 2006. Debt includes long term debt and long term debt due within one year. Capitalization includes long term debt due within one year, long term debt, and stockholders 71 Table of Contents equity. If the improvement in our ratios continues, our credit ratings may improve. However, a decline in our financial ratios, or other adverse events, could result in a ratings decline. Current ratings are: Current Senior Unsecured Debt Ratings Northwest Williams Pipeline Transco Standard & Poors B+ B+ B+ Moodys Investors Service B1 Ba2 Ba2 Fitch Ratings BB BB+ BB+ In mid 2005, Standard & Poors raised our debt ratings outlook from stable to positive. With respect to Standard & Poors, a rating of BBB or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below BBB indicates that the security has significant speculative characteristics. A B rating indicates that Standard and Poors believes the issuer has the capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation, but that adverse business, financial or economic conditions will likely impair the obligors capacity or willingness to meet its financial commitment to the obligation. Standard and Poors may modify its ratings with a + or a sign to show the obligors relative standing within a major rating category. With respect to Moodys, a rating of Baa or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below Baa is considered to have speculative elements. A Ba ranking indicates an obligation that is judged to have speculative elements and is subject to substantial credit risk. A B rating from Moodys signifies an obligation that is considered speculative and is subject to high credit risk. The 1, 2 and 3 modifiers show the relative standing within a major category. A 1 indicates that an obligation ranks in the higher end of the broad rating category, 2 indicating a mid range ranking, and 3 ranking at the lower end of the category. In March 2006, Fitch raised our debt ratings outlook from stable to positive. With respect to Fitch, a rating of BBB or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below BBB is considered speculative grade. A BB rating from Fitch indicates that there is a possibility of credit risk developing, particularly as the result of adverse economic change over time; however, business or financial alternatives may be available to allow financial commitments to be met. Fitch may add a + or a sign to show the obligors relative standing within a major rating category. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of debt covenants and ratios. Year Ended December 31, 2005 (Millions) Net cash provided (used) by: Operating activities $ 1,449.9 Financing activities 36.5 Investing activities (819.2 ) Increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 667.2 Operating Activities Our 2005 net cash provided by operating activities decreased slightly from 2004 and increased by 88 percent from 2003. A primary driver in net cash provided by operating activities is income from continuing operations, which increased primarily as a result of higher gas production volumes and net average realized prices for production sold. Refer to Results of Operations in Item 7 for more detailed information regarding income from continuing operations. Also contributing to the increase in income from continuing operations is the reduction in interest expense due to lower average borrowing levels. Cash payments for interest decreased $224 million from 2004. In addition to the changes in results of operations, net cash inflows from margin deposits and customer margin deposits payable decreased significantly from 2004. In 2004, our Power 72 Table of Contents subsidiary issued a significant number of letters of credit to replace its cash margin deposits. As the letters of credit were issued, the counterparties returned our cash margin deposits to us. Due to fewer letters of credit being issued to replace cash margin deposits in 2005 and 2003, we have fewer receipts of margin deposits than in 2004. Other, including changes in noncurrent assets and liabilities, includes contributions to our tax qualified pension plans of $52.1 million, $136.8 million and $42.8 million in 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. It is our policy to make annual contributions to our tax qualified pension plans in an amount equal to the greater of the actuarially computed annual normal cost plus any unfunded actuarial accrued liability, amortized over approximately five years, or the minimum required contribution under existing tax laws. Additional amounts may be contributed to increase the funded status of the plans. In an effort to strengthen our funded status and take advantage of strong cash flows, we contributed approximately $41.1 million more than our funding policy required in 2005 and $98.9 million more than our funding policy required in 2004. Financing Activities During 2005, our net cash provided (used) by financing activities was a source of cash as compared to a use in 2004 and 2003. During 2005, we received approximately $273 million reported in proceeds from issuance of common stock resulting from the exercise of the FELINE PACS equity forward contracts. Payments of long term debt was significantly lower in 2005 as compared to 2004 primarily due to the substantial completion of our debt reduction strategy in 2004. During January 2005, we retired $200 million of 6.125 percent notes issued by Transco, which matured January 15, 2005. During August 2005, we completed an initial public offering of approximately 40 percent of our interest in Williams Partners L.P. resulting in net proceeds of $111 million reported as proceeds from sale of limited partner units of consolidated partnership. During 2004, we repaid long term debt through tender offers and early retirements. We also reduced our debt through our FELINE PACS exchange. This noncash exchange resulted in payments of fees and expenses reported as premiums paid on tender offer, early debt retirements and FELINE PACS exchange. During 2003, we repurchased our outstanding 9.875 percent cumulative convertible preferred shares. We also repaid the RMT note payable and we refinanced our long term debt at more favorable rates. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information regarding financing activities. Dividends paid on common stock were increased from $.05 to $.075 per common share in third quarter 2005 and totaled $143 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Investing Activities During 2005, our net cash provided (used) by investing activities was a use of cash as compared to a source in 2004 and 2003. During 2005, we received $310.5 million in proceeds from the Gulfstream recapitalization. In January 2005, Northwest Pipeline received an $87.9 million contract termination payment, representing reimbursement of the net book value of the related assets. Refer to Gas Pipeline in Results of Operations in Item 7 for more information on the contract termination. In 2004, we sold all of our restricted investments resulting in proceeds of $851.4 million. Since our $800 million revolving and letter of credit facility that required 105 percent cash collateral has been replaced with a new revolving credit facility in January 2005, we are no longer required to hold the restricted investments. In 2004 and 2003, we had numerous asset sales resulting in proceeds in 2004 and 2003 of $877.8 million and $2,250.5 million, respectively. See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information regarding investing activities. 73 Table of Contents In 2005, we began the year positioned for growth and have used additional cash flow for capital expenditures primarily at Exploration & Production. See a detail of capital expenditures by segment below. Capital Expenditures (Millions) Exploration & Production made capital expenditures in 2005 primarily for development drilling in the Piceance basin. Gas Pipeline made capital expenditures in 2005 primarily for normal maintenance and compliance. Midstream Gas & Liquids made capital expenditures in 2005 primarily for further expanding our systems in existing basins. Off balance sheet financing arrangements and guarantees of debt or other commitments In January 2005, we terminated our two unsecured revolving and letter of credit facilities totaling $500 million and replaced them with two new facilities that contain similar terms but fewer restrictions. In September 2005, we also entered into two new revolving and letter of credit facilities that have a similar structure (see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). We have provided a guarantee for obligations of Williams Partners L.P. under the $1.275 billion secured revolving and letter of credit facility. We have various other guarantees and commitments which are disclosed in Notes 3, 10, 11, 14, and 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We do not believe these guarantees or the possible fulfillment of them will prevent us from meeting our liquidity needs. 74 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The table below summarizes the maturity dates of our contractual obligations by period. 2007 2009 2006 2008 2010 Thereafter Total (Millions) Long term debt, including current portion: Principal $ 119 $ 1,112 $ 270 $ 6,237 $ 7,738 Interest 579 1,093 990 6,100 8,762 Capital leases 1 2 1 4 Operating leases(1)(5) 234 455 382 1,238 2,309 Purchase obligations: Fuel conversion and other service contracts(2)(5) 246 500 501 2,629 3,876 Other(5) 514 427 287 393 (4) 1,621 Other long term liabilities, including current portion: Physical and financial derivatives:(3)(5) 1,259 719 218 153 2,349 Other 72 100 30 1 203 Total $ 3,024 $ 4,408 $ 2,679 $ 16,751 $ 26,862 (1) Excludes sublease income of $1.4 billion consisting of $260 million in 2006, $633 million in 2007 2008, and $518 million in 2009 2010. Includes a Power tolling agreement that is accounted for as an operating lease. (2) Power has entered into certain contracts giving us the right to receive fuel conversion services as well as certain other services associated with electric generation facilities that are currently in operation throughout the continental United States. Certain of Powers tolling agreements could be considered leases pursuant to the guidance in EITF Issue 01 8, Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease, if in the future the agreements are modified for any reason. If deemed to be a capital lease, the net present value of the fixed demand payments would be reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet consistent with other capital lease obligations, and as an asset in property, plant and equipment net. See Note 1 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. (3) Although the amounts presented represent expected cash outflows, a portion of those obligations has previously been paid in accordance with third party margining agreements. As of December 31, 2005, we have paid $28 million in margins, adequate assurance, and prepayments related to the obligations included in this disclosure. In addition, the obligations for physical and financial derivatives are based on market information as of December 31, 2005. Because market information changes daily and has the potential to be volatile, significant changes to the values in this category may occur. (4) Includes one year of annual payments totaling $2 million for contracts with indefinite termination dates. (5) Expected offsetting cash inflows resulting from product sales or net positive settlements are not reflected in these amounts. The expected offsetting cash inflows as of December 31, 2005, are approximately $9.2 billion. Effects of Inflation Our operations in recent years have benefited from relatively low inflation rates. Approximately 48 percent of our gross property, plant and equipment is at Gas Pipeline and approximately 52 percent is at other operating units. Gas Pipeline is subject to regulation, which limits recovery to historical cost. While amounts in excess of historical cost are not recoverable under current FERC practices, we anticipate being allowed to recover and earn a return based on increased actual cost incurred to replace existing assets. Cost 75 Table of Contents based regulation, along with competition and other market factors, may limit our ability to recover such increased costs. For the other operating units, operating costs are influenced to a greater extent by specific price changes in oil and natural gas and related commodities than by changes in general inflation. Crude, refined product, natural gas, natural gas liquids and power prices are particularly sensitive to OPEC production levels and or the market perceptions concerning the supply and demand balance in the near future. However, our exposure to these price changes is reduced through the use of hedging instruments. Environmental We are a participant in certain environmental activities in various stages including assessment studies, cleanup operations and or remedial processes at certain sites, some of which we currently do not own (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). We are monitoring these sites in a coordinated effort with other potentially responsible parties, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or other governmental authorities. We are jointly and severally liable along with unrelated third parties in some of these activities and solely responsible in others. Current estimates of the most likely costs of such activities are approximately $64 million, all of which are recorded as liabilities on our balance sheet at December 31, 2005. We will seek recovery of approximately $18 million of the accrued costs through future natural gas transmission rates. The remainder of these costs will be funded from operations. During 2005, we paid approximately $9 million for cleanup and or remediation and monitoring activities. We expect to pay approximately $15 million in 2006 for these activities. Estimates of the most likely costs of cleanup are generally based on completed assessment studies, preliminary results of studies or our experience with other similar cleanup operations. At December 31, 2005, certain assessment studies were still in process for which the ultimate outcome may yield significantly different estimates of most likely costs. Therefore, the actual costs incurred will depend on the final amount, type and extent of contamination discovered at these sites, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA or other governmental authorities, and other factors. We are subject to the federal Clean Air Act and to the federal Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, which require the EPA to issue new regulations. We are also subject to regulation at the state and local level. In September 1998, the EPA promulgated rules designed to mitigate the migration of ground level ozone in certain states. In March 2004 and June 2004, the EPA promulgated additional regulation regarding hazardous air pollutants, which may impose additional controls. Capital expenditures necessary to install emission control devices on our Transco gas pipeline system to comply with rules were approximately $72 million in 2005 and are estimated to be between $40 million and $45 million subsequent to 2005. The actual costs incurred will depend on the final implementation plans developed by each state to comply with these regulations. We consider these costs on our Transco system associated with compliance with these environmental laws and regulations to be prudent costs incurred in the ordinary course of business and, therefore, recoverable through its rates. 76 Table of Contents Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk Our current interest rate risk exposure is related primarily to our debt portfolio. The majority of our debt portfolio is comprised of fixed rate debt in order to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in interest rates. The maturity of our long term debt portfolio is partially influenced by the expected life of our operating assets. The tables below provide information about our interest rate risk sensitive instruments as of December 31, 2005 and 2004. Long term debt in the tables represents principal cash flows, net of (discount) premium, and weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. The fair value of our publicly traded long term debt is valued using indicative year end traded bond market prices. Private debt is valued based on the prices of similar securities with similar terms and credit ratings. Fair Value December 31, 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Thereafter (1) Total 2005 (Dollars in millions) Long term debt, including current portion(4): Fixed rate $ 104 $ 381 $ 153 $ 41 $ 205 $ 6,179 $ 7,063 $ 7,952 Interest rate 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.8 % 7.8 % 7.8 % 7.8 % Variable rate $ 15 $ 15 $ 563 $ 12 $ 12 $ 30 $ 647 $ 647 Interest rate(2) Fair Value December 31, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Thereafter (1) Total 2004 (Dollars in millions) Long term debt, including current portion: Fixed rate $ 235 $ 104 $ 381 $ 153 $ 41 $ 6,386 $ 7,300 $ 8,195 Interest rate 7.6 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % Variable rate $ 15 $ 15 $ 15 $ 563 $ 12 $ 42 $ 662 $ 662 Interest rate(3) (1) Including unamortized discount and premium. (2) The weighted average interest rate for 2005 is LIBOR plus 2 percent. (3) The weighted average interest rate for 2004 was LIBOR plus 2.1 percent. (4) Excludes capital leases. Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price of natural gas, electricity, refined products and natural gas liquids, as well as other market factors, such as market volatility and commodity price correlations, including correlations between crude oil and gas prices and between natural gas and power prices. We are exposed to these risks in connection with our owned energy related assets, our long term energy related contracts and our proprietary trading activities. We manage the risks associated with these market fluctuations using various derivatives and non derivative energy related contracts. The fair value of derivative contracts is subject to changes in energy commodity market prices, the liquidity and volatility of the markets in which the contracts are transacted, and changes in interest rates. We measure the risk in our portfolios using a value at risk methodology to estimate the potential one day loss from adverse changes in the fair value of the portfolios. Value at risk requires a number of key assumptions and is not necessarily representative of actual losses in fair value that could be incurred from the portfolios. Our value at risk model uses a Monte Carlo method to 77 Table of Contents simulate hypothetical movements in future market prices and assumes that, as a result of changes in commodity prices, there is a 95 percent probability that the one day loss in fair value of the portfolios will not exceed the value at risk. The simulation method uses historical correlations and market forward prices and volatilities. In applying the value at risk methodology, we do not consider that the simulated hypothetical movements affect the positions or would cause any potential liquidity issues, nor do we consider that changing the portfolio in response to market conditions could affect market prices and could take longer than a one day holding period to execute. While a one day holding period has historically been the industry standard, a longer holding period could more accurately represent the true market risk given market liquidity and our own credit and liquidity constraints. We segregate our derivative contracts into trading and nontrading contracts, as defined in the following paragraphs. We calculate value at risk separately for these two categories. Derivative contracts designated as normal purchases or sales under SFAS 133 and nonderivative energy contracts have been excluded from our estimation of value at risk. Trading Our trading portfolio consists of derivative contracts entered into for purposes other than economically hedging our commodity price risk exposure. Only contracts that meet the definition of a derivative are carried at fair value on the balance sheet. Our value at risk for contracts held for trading purposes was approximately $4 million at December 31, 2005, and $1 million at December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2005, our value at risk for these contracts ranged from a high of $6 million to a low of $1 million. Nontrading Our nontrading portfolio consists of contracts that hedge or could potentially hedge the price risk exposure from the following activities: Segment Commodity Price Risk Exposure Exploration & Production Natural gas sales Midstream Natural gas purchases Power Natural gas purchases and sales Electricity purchases and sales The value at risk for contracts held for nontrading purposes was $17 million at December 31, 2005, and $29 million at December 31, 2004. During the year ended December 31, 2005, our value at risk for these contracts ranged from a high of $34 million to a low of $17 million. Certain of the contracts held for nontrading purposes are accounted for as cash flow hedges under SFAS 133. We do not consider the underlying commodity positions to which the cash flow hedges relate in our value at risk model. Therefore, value at risk does not represent economic losses that could occur on a total nontrading portfolio that includes the underlying commodity positions. Foreign Currency Risk We have international investments that could affect our financial results if the investments incur a permanent decline in value as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and or the economic conditions in foreign countries. International investments accounted for under the cost method totaled $45 million and $52 million at December 31, 2005, and 2004, respectively. These investments are primarily in nonpublicly traded companies for which it is not practicable to estimate fair value. We believe that we can realize the carrying value of these investments considering the status of the operations of the companies underlying these investments. If a 20 percent change occurred in the value of the underlying currencies of these investments against the U.S. dollar, the fair value at December 31, 2005, could change by approximately $9.1 million assuming a direct correlation between the currency fluctuation and the value of the investments. 78 Table of Contents Net assets of consolidated foreign operations whose functional currency is the local currency are located primarily in Canada and approximate six percent of our net assets at December 31, 2005, and 2004. These foreign operations do not have significant transactions or financial instruments denominated in other currencies. However, these investments do have the potential to impact our financial position, due to fluctuations in these local currencies arising from the process of re measuring the local functional currency into the U.S. dollar. As an example, a 20 percent change in the respective functional currencies against the U.S. dollar could have changed stockholders equity by approximately $62 million at December 31, 2005. 79 Table of Contents 
 
