Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations General We are primarily a natural gas company, engaged in finding, producing, gathering, processing, and transporting natural gas. Our operations are located principally in the United States and are organized into the following reporting segments: Exploration Production, Gas Pipeline, Midstream Gas Liquids (Midstream), and Gas Marketing Services. (See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of reporting segments.) Unless indicated otherwise, the following discussion of critical accounting estimates, discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition and liquidity relates to our current continuing operations and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Part II Item 8 of this document. Overview of 2007 Our plan for 2007 was focused on continued disciplined growth. Objectives and highlights of this plan included: Objectives Highlights Continuing to improve both EVA and segment profit. 2007 segment profit of almost $2.2 billion contributed to improving our EVA. Investing in our businesses in a way that improves EVA, meets customer needs, and enhances our competitive position. Total capital expenditures were approximately $2.8 billion, of which approximately $1.7 billion was invested in Exploration Production. Continuing to increase natural gas production and reserves in a responsible and efficient manner. Exploration Production increased its average daily domestic production by approximately 21 percent over last year while adding 776 billion cubic feet equivalent in net reserves during 2007. Total year end 2007 proved domestic natural gas reserves are 4.14 trillion cubic feet equivalent, up 12 percent from year end 2006 reserves. Additionally, we received 2007 industry awards, including the Bureau of Land Managements Best Management Practice Award. Increasing the scale of our gathering and processing business in key growth basins. We invested approximately $587 million in capital expenditures in Midstream, including Deepwater Gulf expansion projects and completion of our Opal gas processing facility expansion. Successfully resolving rate cases to enable our Gas Pipeline segment to create additional value. Increased rates were effective, subject to refund, on January 1, 2007, for Northwest Pipeline and on March 1, 2007, for Transco. In March, the FERC approved Northwest Pipelines new rates. In November, Transco filed a stipulation and settlement agreement with the FERC, which is subject to final approval. Our 2007 income from continuing operations increased to $847 million, as compared to $347 million in 2006. Our net cash provided by operating activities was $2.2 billion in 2007 compared to $1.9 billion in 2006. These comparative results reflect: Increased operating income at Midstream due primarily to increased natural gas liquid (NGL) margins; 35 Table of Contents Increased operating income at Exploration Production associated with increased production volumes and higher net realized average prices; Increased operating income at Gas Pipeline due primarily to new rates effective in the first quarter of 2007; The absence of 2006 litigation expense associated with shareholder lawsuits and Gulf Liquids litigation. Natural gas prices in the Rocky Mountain areas (Rockies) trended lower throughout 2007 due to strong drilling activities increasing third party supplies while constrained by limited pipeline capacity. This trend has benefited Midstream as the lower regional gas prices contributed to increased NGL margins in the West region. Exploration Production utilizes firm transportation contracts, which allow a substantial portion of their Rockies production to be sold at more advantageous market points, and basin level collars and fixed price hedges to reduce exposure to this trend. See additional discussion in Results of Operations. Recent Events During third quarter 2007, we formed Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. (WMZ) to own and operate natural gas transportation and storage assets. In January 2008, WMZ completed its initial public offering of 16.25 million common units at a price of $20.00 per unit. In February 2008, the underwriters also exercised their right to purchase an additional 1.65 million common units at the same price. A subsidiary of ours serves as the general partner of WMZ. The initial asset of the partnership is a 35 percent interest in Northwest Pipeline GP, formerly Northwest Pipeline Corporation. Upon completion of the transaction, we hold approximately 47.7 percent of the interests in WMZ, including the interests of the general partner. In December 2007, Williams Partners L.P. acquired certain of our membership interests in Wamsutter LLC, the limited liability company that owns the Wamsutter system, from us for $750 million. Williams Partners L.P. completed the transaction after successfully closing a public equity offering of 9.25 million common units that yielded net proceeds of approximately $335 million. The partnership financed the remainder of the purchase price primarily through utilizing $250 million of term loan borrowings and issuing approximately $157 million of common units to us. Since Williams Partners L.P. is consolidated within our consolidated financial statements, the debt and equity issued by Williams Partners L.P. is reported as a component of our consolidated debt balance and minority interest balance, respectively. (See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) In December 2007, we repurchased $213 million of 7.125 percent notes due September 2011 and $22 million of 8.125 percent notes due March 2012. In conjunction with these early retirements, we paid premiums of approximately $19 million. These premiums, as well as related fees and expenses are recorded as early debt retirement costs in the Consolidated Statement of Income. On November 9, 2007, we closed on the sale of substantially all of our power business to Bear Energy, LP, a unit of The Bear Stearns Companies, Inc., for $496 million, subject to post closing adjustments. The assets sold included tolling contracts, full requirements contracts, tolling resales, heat rate options, related hedges and other related assets including certain property and software. This sale reduces the risk and complexity of our overall business model. In November 2007, our credit ratings were raised to investment grade based on improvements in our credit outlook. As we continue to invest and grow our natural gas businesses, our improved credit rating is expected to provide greater access to capital and more favorable loan terms. See additional discussion of credit ratings in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition. On November 28, 2007, Transco filed a formal stipulation and agreement with the FERC resolving all substantive issues in Transcos pending 2006 rate case. Final resolution of the rate case is subject to approval by the FERC. In July 2007, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1 billion of our common stock. We intend to purchase shares of our stock from time to time in open market transactions or through privately negotiated 36 Table of Contents or structured transactions at our discretion, subject to market conditions and other factors. This stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date. During 2007, we repurchased approximately 16 million shares for $526 million at an average cost of $33.08 per share. We are funding this program with cash on hand. In April 2007, our Board of Directors approved a regular quarterly dividend of 10 cents per share, which reflected an increase of 11 percent compared to the 9 cents per share that we paid in each of the four prior quarters and marked the fourth increase in our dividend since late 2004. On March 30, 2007, the FERC approved the stipulation and settlement agreement with respect to the rate case for Northwest Pipeline. The settlement establishes an increase in general system firm transportation rates on Northwest Pipelines system from $0.30760 to $0.40984 per Dth (dekatherm), effective January 1, 2007. Outlook for 2008 Our plan for 2008 is focused on continued disciplined growth. Objectives of this plan include: Continue to improve both EVA and segment profit. Invest in our businesses in a way that improves EVA, meets customer needs, and enhances our competitive position. Continue to increase natural gas production and reserves. Increase the scale of our gathering and processing business in key growth basins. Potential risks and or obstacles that could prevent us from achieving these objectives include: Volatility of commodity prices; Lower than expected levels of cash flow from operations; Decreased drilling success at Exploration Production; Decreased drilling success by third parties served by Midstream and Gas Pipeline; Exposure associated with our efforts to resolve regulatory and litigation issues (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); General economic and industry downturn. We continue to address these risks through utilization of commodity hedging strategies, focused efforts to resolve regulatory issues and litigation claims, disciplined investment strategies, and maintaining our desired level of at least $1 billion in liquidity from cash and cash equivalents and unused revolving credit facilities. New Accounting Standards and Emerging Issues Accounting standards that have been issued and are not yet effective may have an effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements in the future. These include: SFAS No. 141(R) Business Combinations (SFAS No. 141(R)). SFAS No. 141(R) is effective for business combinations with an acquisition date in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. SFAS No. 160 Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51 (SFAS No. 160). SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. See Recent Accounting Standards in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on these and other recently issued accounting standards. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts therein. We have discussed the 37 Table of Contents following accounting estimates and assumptions as well as related disclosures with our Audit Committee. We believe that the nature of these estimates and assumptions is material due to the subjectivity and judgment necessary, or the susceptibility of such matters to change, and the impact of these on our financial condition or results of operations. Revenue Recognition Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities We hold a portfolio of energy trading and nontrading contracts. We review these contracts to determine whether they are nonderivatives or derivatives. If they are derivatives, we further assess whether the contracts qualify for either cash flow hedge accounting or the normal purchases and normal sales exception. The determination of whether a derivative contract qualifies as a cash flow hedge includes an analysis of historical market price information to assess whether the derivative is expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting cash flows attributed to the hedged risk. We also assess whether the hedged forecasted transaction is probable of occurring. This assessment requires us to exercise judgment and consider a wide variety of factors in addition to our intent, including internal and external forecasts, historical experience, changing market and business conditions, our financial and operational ability to carry out the forecasted transaction, the length of time until the forecasted transaction is projected to occur, and the quantity of the forecasted transaction. In addition, we compare actual cash flows to those that were expected from the underlying risk. If a hedged forecasted transaction is not probable of occurring, or if the derivative contract is not expected to be highly effective, the derivative does not qualify for hedge accounting. For derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges, we do not reflect the effective portion of changes in their fair value in earnings until the associated hedged item affects earnings. For those that have not been designated as hedges or do not qualify for hedge accounting, we recognize the net change in their fair value in income currently (marked to market). For derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges, we prospectively discontinue hedge accounting and recognize future changes in fair value directly in earnings if we no longer expect the hedge to be highly effective, or if we believe that the hedged forecasted transaction is no longer probable of occurring. If the forecasted transaction becomes probable of not occurring, we reclass amounts previously recorded in other comprehensive income into earnings in addition to prospectively discontinuing hedge accounting. If the effectiveness of the derivative improves and is again expected to be highly effective in offsetting cash flows attributed to the hedged risk, or if the forecasted transaction again becomes probable, we may prospectively re designate the derivative as a hedge of the underlying risk. Derivatives for which the normal purchases and normal sales exception has been elected are accounted for on an accrual basis. In determining whether a derivative is eligible for this exception, we assess whether the contract provides for the purchase or sale of a commodity that will be physically delivered in quantities expected to be used or sold over a reasonable period in the normal course of business. In making this assessment, we consider numerous factors, including the quantities provided under the contract in relation to our business needs, delivery locations per the contract in relation to our operating locations, duration of time between entering the contract and delivery, past trends and expected future demand, and our past practices and customs with regard to such contracts. Additionally, we assess whether it is probable that the contract will result in physical delivery of the commodity and not net financial settlement. The fair value of derivative contracts is determined based on the nature of the transaction and the market in which transactions are executed. We also incorporate assumptions and judgments about counterparty performance and credit considerations in our determination of their fair value. Contracts are executed in the following environments: Organized commodity exchange or over the counter markets with quoted prices; Organized commodity exchange or over the counter markets with quoted market prices but limited price transparency, requiring increased judgment to determine fair value; Markets without quoted market prices. 38 Table of Contents The number of transactions executed without quoted market prices is limited. We estimate the fair value of these contracts by using readily available price quotes in similar markets and other market analyses. The fair value of all derivative contracts is continually subject to change as the underlying commodity market changes and our assumptions and judgments change. Additional discussion of the accounting for energy contracts at fair value is included in Energy Trading Activities within Item 7 and Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Oil and Gas Producing Activities We use the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas producing activities. Estimated natural gas and oil reserves and forward market prices for oil and gas are a significant part of our financial calculations. Following are examples of how these estimates affect financial results: An increase (decrease) in estimated proved oil and gas reserves can reduce (increase) our unit of production depreciation, depletion and amortization rates. Changes in oil and gas reserves and forward market prices both impact projected future cash flows from our oil and gas properties. This, in turn, can impact our periodic impairment analyses, including that for goodwill. The process of estimating natural gas and oil reserves is very complex, requiring significant judgment in the evaluation of all available geological, geophysical, engineering, and economic data. After being estimated internally, 99 percent of our reserve estimates are either audited or prepared by independent experts. (See Part I Item 1 for further discussion.) The data may change substantially over time as a result of numerous factors, including additional development activity, evolving production history, and a continual reassessment of the viability of production under changing economic conditions. As a result, material revisions to existing reserve estimates could occur from time to time. A revision of our reserve estimates within reasonably likely parameters is not expected to result in an impairment of our oil and gas properties or goodwill. However, reserve estimate revisions would impact our depreciation and depletion expense prospectively. For example, a change of approximately 10 percent in oil and gas reserves for each basin would change our annual depreciation, depletion and amortization expense between approximately $33 million and $41 million. The actual impact would depend on the specific basins impacted and whether the change resulted from proved developed, proved undeveloped or a combination of these reserve categories. Forward market prices, which are utilized in our impairment analyses, include estimates of prices for periods that extend beyond those with quoted market prices. This forward market price information is consistent with that generally used in evaluating our drilling decisions and acquisition plans. These market prices for future periods impact the production economics underlying oil and gas reserve estimates. The prices of natural gas and oil are volatile and change from period to period, thus impacting our estimates. An unfavorable change in the forward price curve within reasonably likely parameters is not expected to result in an impairment of our oil and gas properties or goodwill. Contingent Liabilities We record liabilities for estimated loss contingencies, including environmental matters, when we assess that a loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Revisions to contingent liabilities are generally reflected in income in the period in which new or different facts or information become known or circumstances change that affect the previous assumptions with respect to the likelihood or amount of loss. Liabilities for contingent losses are based upon our assumptions and estimates and upon advice of legal counsel, engineers, or other third parties regarding the probable outcomes of the matter. As new developments occur or more information becomes available, our assumptions and estimates of these liabilities may change. Changes in our assumptions and estimates or outcomes different from our current assumptions and estimates could materially affect future results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period. See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 39 Table of Contents Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets and Tax Contingencies We have deferred tax assets resulting from certain investments and businesses that have a tax basis in excess of the book basis and from tax carry forwards generated in the current and prior years. We must evaluate whether we will ultimately realize these tax benefits and establish a valuation allowance for those that may not be realizable. This evaluation considers tax planning strategies, including assumptions about the availability and character of future taxable income. At December 31, 2007, we have $717 million of deferred tax assets for which a $57 million valuation allowance has been established. When assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we considered forecasts of future company performance, the estimated impact of potential asset dispositions and our ability and intent to execute tax planning strategies to utilize tax carryovers. We do not expect to be able to utilize $57 million of foreign deferred tax assets primarily related to carryovers. The ultimate amount of deferred tax assets realized could be materially different from those recorded, as influenced by potential changes in jurisdictional income tax laws and the circumstances surrounding the actual realization of related tax assets. We regularly face challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. Beginning January 1, 2007, we evaluate the liability associated with our various filing positions by applying the two step process of recognition and measurement as required by Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). The ultimate disposition of these contingencies could have a significant impact on net cash flows. To the extent we were to prevail in matters for which accruals have been established or were required to pay amounts in excess of our accrued liability, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding FIN 48 and tax carryovers. Pension and Postretirement Obligations We have employee benefit plans that include pension and other postretirement benefits. Net periodic benefit expense and obligations are impacted by various estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include the expected long term rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, expected rate of compensation increase, health care cost trend rates, and employee demographics, including retirement age and mortality. These assumptions are reviewed annually and adjustments are made as needed. The assumptions utilized to compute expense and the benefit obligations are shown in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table presents the estimated increase (decrease) in net periodic benefit expense and obligations resulting from a one percentage point change in the specified assumption. Benefit Expense Benefit Obligation One Percentage One Percentage One Percentage One Percentage Point Increase Point Decrease Point Increase Point Decrease (Millions) Pension benefits: Discount rate $ (6 ) $ 11 $ (106 ) $ 120 Expected long term rate of return on plan assets (11 ) 11 Rate of compensation increase 2 (2 ) 13 (13 ) Other postretirement benefits: Discount rate (4 ) (37 ) 43 Expected long term rate of return on plan assets (2 ) 2 Assumed health care cost trend rate 5 (7 ) 55 (44 ) The expected long term rates of return on plan assets are determined by combining a review of historical returns realized within the portfolio, the investment strategy included in the plans Investment Policy Statement, and capital market projections for the asset classifications in which the portfolio is invested as well as the target 40 Table of Contents weightings of each asset classification. These rates are impacted by changes in general market conditions, but because they are long term in nature, short term market swings do not significantly impact the rates. Changes to our target asset allocation would also impact these rates. Our expected long term rate of return on plan assets used for our pension plans is 7.75 percent for 2007. This rate was 7.75 percent in 2006 and 8.5 percent from 2002 2005. Over the past ten years, our actual average return on plan assets for our pension plans has been approximately 7.7 percent. The discount rates are used to measure the benefit obligations of our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The objective of the discount rates is to determine the amount, if invested at the December 31 measurement date in a portfolio of high quality debt securities, that will provide the necessary cash flows when benefit payments are due. Increases in the discount rates decrease the obligation and, generally, decrease the related expense. The discount rates for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans were determined separately based on an approach specific to our plans and their respective expected benefit cash flows as described in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our discount rate assumptions are impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions that affect interest rates on long term high quality debt securities as well as the duration of our plans liabilities. The expected rate of compensation increase represents average long term salary increases. An increase in this rate causes pension obligation and expense to increase. The assumed health care cost trend rates are based on our actual historical cost rates that are adjusted for expected changes in the health care industry. An increase in this rate causes other postretirement benefit obligation and expense to increase. 41 Table of Contents Results of Operations Consolidated Overview The following table and discussion is a summary of our consolidated results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 2007. The results of operations by segment are discussed in further detail following this consolidated overview discussion. Years Ended December 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change from from from from 2007 2006(1) 2006(1) 2006 2005(1) 2005(1) 2005 (Millions) (Millions) (Millions) Revenues $ 10,558 +1,182 +13 % $ 9,376 405 4 % $ 9,781 Costs and expenses: Costs and operating expenses 8,079 513 7 % 7,566 +319 +4 % 7,885 Selling, general and administrative expenses 471 82 21 % 389 112 40 % 277 Other (income) expense net (18 ) +52 NM 34 +23 +40 % 57 General corporate expenses 161 29 22 % 132 +13 +9 % 145 Securities litigation settlement and related costs +167 +100 % 167 158 NM 9 Total costs and expenses 8,693 8,288 8,373 Operating income 1,865 1,088 1,408 Interest accrued net (653 ) (653 ) +7 +1 % (660 ) Investing income 257 +89 +53 % 168 +143 NM 25 Early debt retirement costs (19 ) +12 +39 % (31 ) 31 NM Minority interest in income of consolidated subsidiaries (90 ) 50 125 % (40 ) 14 54 % (26 ) Other income net 11 15 58 % 26 1 4 % 27 Income from continuing operations before income taxes and cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 1,371 558 774 Provision for income taxes 524 313 148 % 211 +90 +30 % 301 Income from continuing operations 847 347 473 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 143 +181 NM (38 ) +119 +76 % (157 ) Income before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 990 309 316 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle +2 +100 % (2 ) Net income $ 990 $ 309 $ 314 (1) + Favorable change to net income; Unfavorable change to net income; NM A percentage calculation is not meaningful due to change in signs, a zero value denominator or a percentage change greater than 200. 2007 vs. 2006 The increase in revenues is due primarily to higher Midstream revenues associated with increased natural gas liquid (NGL) and olefins marketing revenues and increased production of olefins and NGLs. Exploration Production experienced higher revenues also due to increases in production volumes and net realized average prices. Additionally, Gas Pipeline revenues increased primarily due to increased rates in effect since the first quarter of 2007. These increases are partially offset by a mark to market loss recognized at Gas Marketing Services on a legacy derivative natural gas sales contract that we expect to assign to another party in 2008 under an asset transfer agreement that we executed in December 2007. 42 Table of Contents The increase in costs and operating expenses is due primarily to increased NGL and olefins marketing purchases and increased costs associated with our olefins production business at Midstream. Additionally, Exploration Production experienced higher depreciation, depletion and amortization and lease operating expenses due primarily to higher production volumes. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses (SGA) is primarily due to increased staffing in support of increased drilling and operational activity at Exploration Production, the absence of a $25 million gain in 2006 related to the sale of certain receivables at Gas Marketing Services, and a $9 million charge related to certain international receivables at Midstream. Other (income) expense net within operating income in 2007 includes: Income of $18 million associated with payments received for a terminated firm transportation agreement on Northwest Pipelines Grays Harbor lateral; Income of $17 million associated with a change in estimate related to a regulatory liability at Northwest Pipeline; Income of $12 million related to a favorable litigation outcome at Midstream; Income of $8 million due to the reversal of a planned major maintenance accrual at Midstream; Expense of $20 million related to an accrual for litigation contingencies at Gas Marketing Services; Expense of $10 million related to an impairment of the Carbonate Trend pipeline at Midstream. Other (income) expense net within operating income in 2006 includes: A $73 million accrual for a Gulf Liquids litigation contingency; Income of $9 million due to a settlement of an international contract dispute at Midstream. The increase in general corporate expenses is attributable to various factors, including higher employee related costs, increased levels of charitable contributions and information technology expenses. The higher employee related costs are primarily the result of higher stock compensation expense. (See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) The securities litigation settlement and related costs is primarily the result of our 2006 settlement related to class action securities litigation filed on behalf of purchasers of our securities between July 24, 2000 and July 22, 2002. (See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) The increase in operating income reflects record high NGL margins at Midstream, continued strong natural gas production growth at Exploration Production, the positive effect of new rates at Gas Pipeline, and the absence of 2006 litigation expenses associated with shareholder lawsuits and Gulf Liquids litigation. Interest accrued net includes a decrease of $19 million in interest expense associated with our Gulf Liquids litigation contingency, offset by changes in our debt portfolio, most significantly the issuance of new debt in December 2006 by Williams Partners L.P. The increase in investing income is due to: An approximate $27 million increase in interest income primarily associated with larger cash and cash equivalent balances combined with slightly higher rates of return in 2007 compared to 2006; Increased equity earnings of $38 million due largely to increased earnings of our Gulfstream Natural Gas System, L.L.C. (Gulfstream), Discovery Producer Services LLC (Discovery) and Aux Sable Liquid Products, L.P. (Aux Sable) investments; The absence of a $16 million impairment in 2006 of a Venezuelan cost based investment at Exploration Production; Approximately $14 million of gains from sales of cost based investments in 2007. 43 Table of Contents These increases are partially offset by the absence of an approximately $7 million gain on the sale of an international investment in 2006. Early debt retirement costs in 2007 includes $19 million of premiums and fees related to the December 2007 repurchase of senior unsecured notes. (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Early debt retirement costs in 2006 includes $27 million in premiums and fees related to the January 2006 debt conversion and $4 million of accelerated amortization of debt expenses related to the retirement of the debt secured by assets of Williams Production RMT Company. Minority interest in income of consolidated subsidiaries increased primarily due to the growth in the minority interest holdings of Williams Partners L.P. Provision for income taxes was significantly higher in 2007 due primarily to higher pre tax earnings. The effective income tax rate for 2007 is slightly higher than the federal statutory rate primarily due to the effect of taxes on foreign operations and an accrual for income tax contingencies, partially offset by the utilization of charitable contribution carryovers not previously benefited. The effective income tax rate for 2006 is slightly higher than the federal statutory rate primarily due to state income taxes, the effect of taxes on foreign operations, nondeductible convertible debenture expenses and an accrual for income tax contingencies, partially offset by the favorable resolution of federal income tax litigation and the utilization of charitable contribution carryovers not previously benefited. The 2006 effective income tax rate has been increased by an adjustment to increase overall deferred income tax liabilities. (See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Income (loss) from discontinued operations in 2007 primarily includes the operating results of substantially all of our power business and the sale of that business, which was completed in November 2007. (See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) These results include the following pre tax items: A $429 million gain associated with the reclassification of deferred net hedge gains from accumulated other comprehensive income, partially offset by unrealized mark to market losses of approximately $23 million; A $111 million impairment charge related to the carrying value of certain derivative contracts for which we had previously elected the normal purchases and normal sales exception under SFAS 133 and, accordingly, were no longer recording at fair value; A $37 million loss on the sale of substantially all of our power business; A $14 million impairment charge for our Hazelton power generation facility. Income (loss) from discontinued operations in 2006 includes: A $14 million net of tax loss related to our discontinued power business (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); A $12 million net of tax litigation settlement related to our former chemical fertilizer business; A $4 million net of tax charge associated with the settlement of a loss contingency related to a former exploration business; A $9 million net of tax charge associated with an oil purchase contract related to our former Alaska refinery. 2006 vs. 2005 The decrease in revenues is primarily due to lower natural gas realized revenues at Gas Marketing Services associated with lower natural gas sales prices. Additionally, the effect of a change in forward prices on legacy natural gas derivative contracts not designated as cash flow hedges had an unfavorable impact on revenues. Partially 44 Table of Contents offsetting these decreases are increased crude, olefin and NGL marketing revenues, higher NGL production revenue at Midstream and increased production revenue at Exploration Production. The decrease in costs and operating expenses is largely due to reduced natural gas purchase prices at Gas Marketing Services. Partially offsetting these decreases are increased crude, olefin and NGL marketing purchases and operating expenses at Midstream and increased depreciation, depletion and amortization and lease operating expense at Exploration Production. The increase in SGA expenses is primarily due to increased personnel costs, insurance expense, higher information systems support costs and the absence of a $17 million reduction of pension expense at Gas Pipeline in 2005. Additionally, Exploration Production experienced higher costs due to increased staffing in support of increased drilling and operational activity. Other (income) expense net within operating income in 2005 includes: An $82 million accrual for litigation contingencies at Gas Marketing Services, associated primarily with agreements reached to substantially resolve exposure related to certain natural gas price and volume reporting issues; Gains totaling $30 million on the sale of certain natural gas properties at Exploration Production; A gain of $9 million on a sale of land in our Other segment. General corporate expenses decreased primarily due to the absence of $14 million of insurance settlement charges in 2005 associated with certain insurance coverage allocation issues. The decrease in operating income primarily reflects the negative effect of a change in forward prices on natural gas derivative contracts at Gas Marketing Services, higher operating and administrative costs at Gas Pipeline and 2006 litigation expenses associated with shareholder lawsuits and Gulf Liquids litigation. These decreases are partially offset by higher margins at Midstream and the absence a 2005 accrual for estimated litigation contingencies associated primarily with agreements reached to substantially resolve exposure related to natural gas price and volume reporting issues. Interest accrued net in 2006 includes $22 million in interest expense associated with our Gulf Liquids litigation contingency. The increase in investing income is due to: The absence of an $87 million impairment in 2005 on our investment in Longhorn Partners Pipeline, L.P. (Longhorn); The absence of a $23 million impairment in 2005 of our Aux Sable equity investment; An approximate $30 million increase in interest income primarily associated with increased earnings on cash and cash equivalent balances associated with higher rates of return; Increased equity earnings of $33 million due largely to the absence of equity losses in 2006 on Longhorn and increased earnings of our Discovery and Aux Sable investments. These increases are partially offset by: A $16 million impairment of a Venezuelan cost based investment at Exploration Production in 2006; The absence of a $9 million gain on sale of our remaining Mid America Pipeline (MAPL) and Seminole Pipeline (Seminole) investments at Midstream in 2005. The increase in minority interest in income of consolidated subsidiaries is primarily due to the growth of Williams Partners L.P. 45 Table of Contents Provision for income taxes was significantly lower in 2006 due primarily to lower pre tax earnings. The effective income tax rate for 2006 is slightly higher than the federal statutory rate primarily due to state income taxes, the effect of taxes on foreign operations, nondeductible convertible debenture expenses and an accrual for income tax contingencies, partially offset by the favorable resolution of federal income tax litigation and the utilization of charitable contribution carryovers not previously benefited. The 2006 effective income tax rate has been increased by an adjustment to increase overall deferred income tax liabilities. The effective income tax rate for 2005 is higher than the federal statutory rate due primarily to state income taxes, nondeductible expenses and the inability to utilize charitable contribution carryovers. The 2005 effective income tax rate was reduced by an adjustment to reduce overall deferred income tax liabilities and favorable settlements on federal and state income tax matters. (See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Income (loss) from discontinued operations in 2005 includes a $155 million net of tax loss related to our discontinued power business. (See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle in 2005 is due to the implementation of FIN 47. 46 Table of Contents Results of Operations Segments We are currently organized into the following segments: Exploration Production, Gas Pipeline, Midstream, Gas Marketing Services, and Other. Other primarily consists of corporate operations. Our management currently evaluates performance based on segment profit (loss) from operations. (See Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Exploration Production Overview of 2007 In 2007, we continued our strategy of a rapid execution of our development drilling program in our growth basins. Accordingly, we: Increased average daily domestic production levels by approximately 21 percent compared to last year. The average daily domestic production was approximately 913 million cubic feet of gas equivalent (MMcfe) in 2007 compared to 752 MMcfe in 2006. The increased production is primarily due to increased development within the Piceance, Powder River, and Fort Worth basins. 2007 vs 2006 Domestic Production Average daily domestic production grew 21 percent or 161 MMcfe per day Benefited from increased domestic net realized average prices, which increased by approximately 15 percent compared to last year. The domestic net realized average price was $5.08 per thousand cubic feet of gas equivalent (Mcfe) in 2007 compared to $4.40 per Mcfe in 2006. Net realized average prices include market prices, net of fuel and shrink and hedge positions, less gathering and transportation expenses. Utilized firm transportation contracts which allowed a substantial portion of our Rockies production to be sold at more advantageous market points outside of the Rocky Mountain markets. Basin level collars and fixed price hedges also reduced our exposure to natural gas prices in the Rockies. Continued our aggressive development drilling program, drilling 1,590 gross wells in 2007 with a success rate of over 99 percent. This contributed to total net additions of 776 billion cubic feet equivalent (Bcfe) in net reserves a replacement rate for our domestic production of 232 percent in 2007 compared to 216 percent in 2006. Capital expenditures for domestic drilling, development, and acquisition activity in 2007 were approximately $1.7 billion compared to approximately $1.4 billion in 2006. 47 Table of Contents The benefits of higher production volumes and higher net realized average prices were partially offset by increased operating costs. The increase in operating costs was primarily due to increased production volumes and higher well service and industry costs. In addition, higher production volumes increased depletion, depreciation and amortization expense. Significant events In February 2007, we entered into a five year unsecured credit agreement with certain banks in order to reduce margin requirements related to our hedging activities as well as lower transaction fees. Margin requirements, if any, under this new facility are dependent on the level of hedging and on natural gas reserves value. (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) We may also execute hedges with the Gas Marketing Services segment, which, in turn, executes offsetting derivative contracts with unrelated third parties. In this situation, Gas Marketing Services, generally, bears the counterparty performance risks associated with unrelated third parties. Hedging decisions primarily are made considering our overall commodity risk exposure and are not executed independently by Exploration Production. In May and July 2007, we increased our position in the Fort Worth basin by acquiring producing properties and leasehold acreage for approximately $41 million. These acquisitions are consistent with our growth strategy of leveraging our horizontal drilling expertise by acquiring and developing low risk properties in the Barnett Shale formation. In July 2007, we increased our position in the Piceance basin by acquiring additional undeveloped leasehold acreage for approximately $36 million. Outlook for 2008 Our expectations and objectives for 2008 include: Maintaining our development drilling program in our key basins of Piceance, Powder River, San Juan, Arkoma, and Fort Worth through our planned capital expenditures projected between $1.45 billion and $1.65 billion. Continuing to grow our average daily domestic production level with a goal of approximately 10 to 15 percent annual growth. Natural gas prices in the Rocky Mountain areas trended lower throughout 2007 due to strong drilling activities increasing supplies while constrained by limited pipeline capacity. However, we will continue to utilize firm transportation contracts which allow a substantial portion of our Rockies production to be sold at more advantageous market points. Our continued use of basin level collars and fixed price hedges should also reduce our exposure to this trend. The construction of a new third party pipeline that began transporting gas from the Rocky Mountain areas in the beginning of 2008 should lessen pipeline transportation capacity constraints and provided an additional alternative market for the sale of production. Approximately 70 MMcf of our forecasted 2008 daily domestic production is hedged by NYMEX and basis fixed price contracts at prices that average $3.97 per Mcf at a basin level. In addition, we have the following collar agreements for our forecasted 2008 daily domestic production, shown at basin level weighted average prices and weighted average volumes: Volume Floor Price Ceiling Price (MMcf/d) ($/Mcf) 2008 collar agreements: Northwest Pipeline/Rockies 170 $ 6.16 $ 9.14 El Paso/San Juan 202 $ 6.35 $ 8.96 Mid Continent (PEPL) 25 $ 6.91 $ 9.13 Risks to achieving our expectations include unfavorable natural gas market price movements which are impacted by numerous factors including weather conditions and domestic natural gas production and consumption. Also, achievement of expectations can be affected by costs of services associated with drilling. 48 Table of Contents In January 2008, we sold a contractual right to a production payment on certain future international hydrocarbon production for approximately $148 million. We have received $118 million in cash and $29 million has been placed in escrow subject to certain post closing conditions and adjustments. We will recognize a pre tax gain of approximately $118 million in the first quarter of 2008 related to the initial cash received. As a result of the contract termination, we have no further interests associated with the crude oil concession, which is located in Peru. We had obtained these interests through our acquisition of Barrett Resources Corporation in 2001. Year Over Year Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 2,093 $ 1,488 $ 1,269 Segment profit $ 756 $ 552 $ 587 2007 vs. 2006 Total segment revenues increased $605 million, or 41 percent, primarily due to the following: $487 million, or 39 percent, increase in domestic production revenues reflecting $264 million associated with a 21 percent increase in production volumes sold and $223 million associated with a 15 percent increase in net realized average prices. The increase in production volumes reflects an increase in the number of producing wells primarily from the Piceance and Powder River basins. The impact of hedge positions on increased net realized average prices includes both the expiration of a portion of fixed price hedges that are lower than the current market prices and higher than current market prices related to basin specific collars entered into during the period. Production revenues in 2007 include approximately $53 million related to natural gas liquids. In 2006, approximately $29 million of similar revenues were classified within other revenues; $139 million increase in revenues for gas management activities related to gas sold on behalf of certain outside parties which is offset by a similar increase in segment costs and expenses; These increases were partially offset by a $30 million decrease relating to hedge ineffectiveness. In 2006, there were $14 million in net unrealized gains from hedge ineffectiveness as compared to $16 million in net unrealized losses in 2007. To manage the commodity price risk and volatility of owning producing gas properties, we enter into derivative forward sales contracts that fix the sales price relating to a portion of our future production. Approximately 19 percent of domestic production in 2007 was hedged by NYMEX and basis fixed price contracts at a weighted average price of $3.90 per Mcf at a basin level compared to 40 percent hedged at a weighted average price of $3.82 per Mcf for 2006. Also, approximately 30 percent and 15 percent of 2007 and 2006 domestic production was 49 Table of Contents hedged in the following collar agreements shown at basin level weighted average prices and weighted average volumes: Volume Floor Price Ceiling Price (MMcf/d) ($/Mcf) 2007 collar agreements: NYMEX 15 $ 6.50 $ 8.25 Northwest Pipeline/Rockies 50 $ 5.65 $ 7.45 El Paso/San Juan 130 $ 5.98 $ 9.63 Mid Continent (PEPL) 76 $ 6.82 $ 10.77 2006 collar agreements: NYMEX 49 $ 6.50 $ 8.25 NYMEX 15 $ 7.00 $ 9.00 Northwest Pipeline/Rockies 50 $ 6.05 $ 7.90 Total segment costs and expenses increased $404 million, primarily due to the following: $173 million higher depreciation, depletion and amortization expense primarily due to higher production volumes and increased capitalized drilling costs; $139 million increase in expenses for gas management activities related to gas purchased on behalf of certain outside parties which is offset by a similar increase in segment revenues; $46 million higher lease operating expenses from the increased number of producing wells primarily within the Piceance, Powder River, and Fort Worth basins in combination with higher well service expenses, facility expenses, equipment rentals, maintenance and repair services, and salt water disposal expenses; $36 million higher SGA expenses primarily due to increased staffing in support of increased drilling and operational activity, including higher compensation. In addition, we incurred higher insurance and information technology support costs related to the increased activity. First quarter 2007 also includes approximately $5 million of expenses associated with a correction of costs incorrectly capitalized in prior periods. The $204 million increase in segment profit is primarily due to the 21 percent increase in domestic production volumes sold as well as the 15 percent increase in net realized average prices, partially offset by the increase in segment costs and expenses. 2006 vs. 2005 Total segment revenues increased $219 million, or 17 percent, primarily due to the following: $165 million, or 15 percent, increase in domestic production revenues reflecting $245 million primarily associated with a 23 percent increase in natural gas production volumes sold, offset by a decrease of $80 million associated with a 6 percent decrease in net realized average prices. The increase in production volumes is primarily from the Piceance and Powder River basins and the decrease in prices reflects the downward trending of market prices in the latter part of 2006. $10 million increase in production revenues from our international operations primarily due to increases in net realized average prices for crude oil production volumes sold. $14 million of net unrealized gains in 2006 from hedge ineffectiveness and forward mark to market gains on certain basis swaps not designated as hedges as compared to $10 million in net unrealized losses attributable to hedge ineffectiveness from NYMEX collars in 2005. In 2005, approximately 47 percent of domestic production was hedged by NYMEX and basis fixed price contracts at a weighted average price of $3.99 per Mcf. Approximately 10 percent of domestic production was hedged by a NYMEX collar agreement for approximately 50 MMcf per day at a floor price of $7.50 per Mcf and a 50 Table of Contents ceiling price of $10.49 per Mcf in the first quarter and at a floor price of $6.75 per Mcf and a ceiling price of $8.50 per Mcf in the second, third, and fourth quarters, and a Northwest Pipeline/Rockies collar agreement for approximately 50 MMcf per day in the fourth quarter at a floor price of $6.10 per Mcf and a ceiling price of $7.70 per Mcf. Total segment costs and expenses increased $257 million, primarily due to the following: $107 million higher depreciation, depletion and amortization expense primarily due to higher production volumes and increased capitalized drilling costs; $54 million higher lease operating expense primarily due to the increased number of producing wells and higher well service and industry costs due to increased demand and approximately $6 million for out of period expenses related to 2005; $33 million higher selling, general and administrative expenses primarily due to higher compensation for additional staffing in support of increased drilling and operational activity. In addition, we incurred higher legal, insurance, and information technology support costs related to the increased activity; $19 million higher operating taxes primarily due to higher production volumes sold and increased tax rates; The absence in 2006 of $30 million of gains on the sales of properties in 2005. The $35 million decrease in segment profit is primarily due to lower net realized average prices and higher segment costs and expenses as discussed previously, and the absence in 2006 of $30 million of gains on the sales of properties in 2005. Partially offsetting these decreases are a 23 percent increase in domestic production volumes sold and increase in income from ineffectiveness and forward mark to market gains. Segment profit also includes an $8 million increase in our international operations primarily due to higher revenue and equity earnings as a result of increases in net realized average prices for crude oil production volumes sold. Gas Pipeline Overview Our strategy to create value for our shareholders focuses on maximizing the utilization of our pipeline capacity by providing high quality, low cost transportation of natural gas to large and growing markets. Gas Pipelines interstate transmission and storage activities are subject to regulation by the FERC and as such, our rates and charges for the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, and the extension, expansion or abandonment of jurisdictional facilities and accounting, among other things, are subject to regulation. The rates are established through the FERCs ratemaking process. Changes in commodity prices and volumes transported have little impact on revenues because the majority of cost of service is recovered through firm capacity reservation charges in transportation rates. Significant events of 2007 include: Gas Pipeline master limited partnership During third quarter 2007, we formed Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. (WMZ) to own and operate natural gas transportation and storage assets. In January 2008, WMZ completed its initial public offering of 16.25 million common units at a price of $20.00 per unit. In February 2008, the underwriters also exercised their right to purchase an additional 1.65 million common units at the same price. A subsidiary of ours serves as the general partner of WMZ. The initial asset of the partnership is a 35 percent interest in Northwest Pipeline GP, formerly Northwest Pipeline Corporation. Upon completion of the transaction, we hold approximately 47.7 percent of the interests in WMZ, including the interests of the general partner. 51 Table of Contents Status of rate cases During 2006, Northwest Pipeline and Transco each filed general rate cases with the FERC for increases in rates. The new rates were effective, subject to refund, on January 1, 2007, for Northwest Pipeline and on March 1, 2007, for Transco. On March 30, 2007, the FERC approved the stipulation and settlement agreement with respect to the rate case for Northwest Pipeline. The settlement establishes an increase in general system firm transportation rates on Northwest Pipelines system from $0.30760 to $0.40984 per Dth (dekatherm), effective January 1, 2007. On November 28, 2007, Transco filed a formal stipulation and agreement with the FERC resolving all substantive issues in Transcos pending 2006 rate case. Final resolution of the rate case is subject to approval by the FERC. Parachute Lateral project In May 2007, we placed into service a 37.6 mile expansion of 30 inch diameter line in northwest Colorado. The expansion increased capacity by 450 Mdt/d at a cost of approximately $86 million. In December 2007, this asset was purchased by Midstream. In an arrangement approved by the FERC, Midstream will lease the pipeline to Gas Pipeline, who will continue to operate the pipeline until completion of a planned FERC abandonment filing. Leidy to Long Island expansion project In December 2007, we placed into service an expansion of certain existing pipeline facilities in the northeast United States. The project increased firm transportation capacity by 100 Mdt/d at an approximate cost of $169 million. Potomac expansion project In November 2007, we placed into service 16.5 miles of 42 inch pipeline in the Mid Atlantic region of the United States. The second phase of the project involving installation of certain facilities will be completed in the fall of 2008. The project provides 165 Mdt/d of incremental firm capacity at an approximate total cost of $88 million. Outlook for 2008 Gulfstream In June 2007, our equity method investee, Gulfstream, received FERC approval to extend its existing pipeline approximately 34 miles within Florida. The extension will fully subscribe the remaining 345 Mdt/d of firm capacity on the existing pipeline. Construction began in January 2008. The estimated cost of this project is approximately $130 million and is expected to be placed into service in July 2008. In September 2007, Gulfstream received FERC approval to construct 17.5 miles of 20 inch pipeline and to install a new compressor facility. Construction began in December 2007. The pipeline expansion will increase capacity by 155 Mdt/d and is expected to be placed into service in September 2008. The compressor facility is expected to be placed into service in January 2009. The estimated cost of this project is approximately $153 million. Sentinel expansion project In December 2007, we filed an application with the FERC to construct an expansion in the northeast United States. The estimated cost of the project is approximately $169 million. The expansion will increase capacity by 142 Mdt/d and is expected to be placed into service in two phases, occurring in November 2008 and November 2009. Jackson Prairie expansion project We own a one third interest in the Jackson Prairie underground storage facility located in Washington, with the remaining interests owned by two of our distribution customers. In February 2007, we received FERC approval to 52 Table of Contents expand the Jackson Prairie facility. The expansion will increase our one third share of the capacity by 104 Mdt/d and is expected to be placed into service in November 2008. Year Over Year Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 1,610 $ 1,348 $ 1,413 Segment profit $ 673 $ 467 $ 586 2007 vs. 2006 Revenues increased $262 million, or 19 percent, due primarily to a $173 million increase in transportation revenue and a $25 million increase in storage revenue resulting primarily from new rates effective in the first quarter of 2007. In addition, revenues increased $59 million due to the sale of excess inventory gas. Costs and operating expenses increased $86 million, or 11 percent, due primarily to: An increase of $59 million associated with the sale of excess inventory gas, which includes a $19 million deferred gain, half of which will be payable to customers, pending FERC approval; An increase in depreciation expense of $30 million due to property additions; An increase in personnel costs of $10 million due primarily to higher compensation as well as an increase in number of employees; The absence of a $3 million credit to expense recorded in 2006 related to corrections of the carrying value of certain liabilities. Partially offsetting these increases is a decrease of $12 million in contract and outside service costs and a decrease of $7 million in materials and supplies expense. Other (income) expense net changed favorably by $15 million due primarily to $18 million of income associated with payments received for a terminated firm transportation agreement on Northwest Pipelines Grays Harbor lateral. Also included in the favorable change is $17 million of income recorded in the second quarter of 2007 for a change in estimate related to a regulatory liability at Northwest Pipeline, partially offset by $18 million of expense related to higher asset retirement obligations. Equity earnings increased $14 million due primarily to a $14 million increase in equity earnings from Gulfstream. Gulfstreams higher earnings were primarily due to a decrease in property taxes from a favorable litigation outcome as well as improved operating results. The $206 million, or 44 percent, increase in segment profit is due primarily to $262 million higher revenues, $14 million higher equity earnings and $15 million favorable other (income) expense net as previously discussed. Partially offsetting these increases are higher costs and operating expenses as previously discussed. 2006 vs. 2005 Significant 2005 adjustments Operating results for 2005 included: Adjustments of $18 million reflected as a $12 million reduction of costs and operating expenses and a $6 million reduction of SGA expenses. These cost reductions were corrections of the carrying value of certain liabilities that were recorded in prior periods. Based on a review by management, these liabilities were no longer required. Pension expense reduction of $17 million in the second quarter of 2005 to reflect the cumulative impact of a correction of an error attributable to 2003 and 2004. The error was associated with the actuarial 53 Table of Contents computation of annual net periodic pension expense and resulted from the identification of errors in certain Transco participant data involving annuity contract information utilized for 2003 and 2004. Adjustments of $37 million reflected as increases in costs and operating expenses related to $32 million of prior period accounting and valuation corrections for certain inventory items and an accrual of $5 million for contingent refund obligations. Revenues decreased $65 million, or 5 percent, due primarily to $75 million lower revenues associated with exchange imbalance settlements (offset in costs and operating expenses). Partially offsetting this decrease is a $9 million increase in revenue due to an adjustment for the recovery of state income tax rate changes (offset in provision for income taxes). Costs and operating expenses decreased $17 million, or 2 percent, due primarily to: A decrease in costs of $75 million associated with exchange imbalance settlements (offset in revenues); A decrease in costs of $37 million related to the absence of $32 million of 2005 prior period accounting and valuation corrections for certain inventory items and an accrual of $5 million for contingent refund obligations. Partially offsetting these decreases are: An increase in contract and outside service costs of $23 million due primarily to higher pipeline assessment and repair costs; An increase in depreciation expense of $15 million due to property additions; An increase in operating and maintenance expenses of $15 million; An increase in operating taxes of $10 million; The absence of $14 million of income in 2005 associated with the resolution of litigation; The absence of $12 million of expense reductions during 2005 related to the carrying value of certain liabilities. SGA expenses increased $77 million, or 92 percent, due primarily to: An increase in personnel costs of $18 million; The absence of a 2005 $17 million reduction in pension costs to correct an error in prior periods; An increase in information systems support costs of $16 million; An increase in property insurance expenses of $14 million; The absence of $6 million of cost reductions in 2005 that related to correcting the carrying value of certain liabilities. The $119 million, or 20 percent, decrease in segment profit is due primarily to the absence of significant 2005 adjustments as previously discussed, increases in costs and operating expenses and SGA expenses as previously discussed, and the absence of a $5 million construction completion fee recognized in 2005 related to our investment in Gulfstream. Midstream Gas Liquids Overview of 2007 Midstreams ongoing strategy is to safely and reliably operate large scale midstream infrastructure where our assets can be fully utilized and drive low per unit costs. Our business is focused on consistently attracting new business by providing highly reliable service to our customers. 54 Table of Contents Significant events during 2007 include the following: Continued favorable commodity price margins The average realized natural gas liquid (NGL) per unit margins at our processing plants during 2007 was a record high 55 cents per gallon. NGL margins exceeded Midstreams rolling five year average for the last seven quarters. The geographic diversification of Midstream assets contributed significantly to our realized unit margins resulting in margins generally greater than that of the industry benchmarks for gas processed in the Henry Hub area and fractionated and sold at Mont Belvieu. The largest impact was realized at our western United States gas processing plants, which benefited from lower regional market natural gas prices. Domestic Gathering and Processing Per Unit NGL Margin with Production and Sales Volumes by Quarter (excludes partially owned plants) Expansion efforts in growth areas Consistent with our strategy, we continued to expand our midstream operations where we have large scale assets in growth basins. During the first quarter of 2007, we completed construction at our existing gas processing complex located near Opal, Wyoming, to add a fifth cryogenic gas processing train capable of processing up to 350 MMcf/d, bringing total Opal capacity to approximately 1,450 MMcf/d. This plant expansion became operational during the first quarter. We also have several expansion projects ongoing in the West region to lower field pressures and increase production volumes for our customers who continue robust drilling activities in the region. We continue construction of 37 mile extensions of both of our oil and gas pipelines from our Devils Tower spar to the Blind Faith prospect located in Mississippi Canyon. These extensions, estimated to cost approximately $250 million, are expected to be ready for service by the second quarter of 2008. During 2007, we have continued construction activities on the Perdido Norte project which includes oil and gas lines that would expand the scale of our existing infrastructure in the western deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico. In addition, we completed agreements with certain producers to provide gathering, processing and transportation services over the life of the reserves. We also intend to expand our Markham gas processing facility to adequately serve this new gas production. The scale of the project has increased to include additional pipeline and more 55 Table of Contents efficient processing capacity. The estimated cost is now approximately $560 million, and it is expected to be in service in the third quarter of 2009. In July 2007, we exercised our right of first refusal to acquire BASFs 5/12th ownership interest in the Geismar olefins facility for approximately $62 million. The acquisition increases our total ownership to 10/12th. In March 2007, we announced plans to construct and operate the new Willow Creek facility, a 450 MMcf/d natural gas processing plant in western Colorados Piceance basin, where Exploration Production has its most significant volume of natural gas production, reserves and development activity. Exploration Productions existing Piceance basin processing plants are primarily designed to condition the natural gas to meet quality specifications for pipeline transmission, not to maximize the extraction of NGLs. We expect the new Willow Creek facility to recover 25,000 barrels per day of NGLs at startup, which is expected to be in the third quarter of 2009. In December 2007, we purchased the Parachute Lateral system from Gas Pipeline. The system is a 37.6 mile expansion, originally placed in service by Gas Pipeline in May 2007, and provides capacity of 450 Mdt/d through a 30 inch diameter line, transporting residue gas from the Piceance basin to the Greasewood Hub in northwest Colorado. The Willow Creek facility will straddle the Parachute Lateral pipeline and will process gas flowing through the pipeline. In an arrangement approved by the FERC, Midstream will lease the pipeline to Gas Pipeline, who will continue to operate the pipeline until completion of a planned FERC abandonment filing. In addition, we have acquired an existing natural gas pipeline from Gas Pipeline, and begun the process of converting it from natural gas to NGL service and constructing additional pipeline to create a pipeline alternative for NGLs currently being transported by truck from Exploration Productions existing Piceance basin processing plants to a major NGL transportation pipeline system. We have also agreed to dedicate our equity NGL volumes from Willow Creek, along with our two Wyoming plants, for transport under a long term shipping agreement with Overland Pass Pipeline Company, LLC. We currently have a 1 percent interest in Overland Pass Pipeline Company, LLC and have the option to increase our ownership to 50 percent and become the operator within two years of the pipeline becoming operational. Start up is planned for mid 2008. The terms of the shipping agreement represent significant savings compared with agreements we are now utilizing. Williams Partners L.P. We currently own approximately 23.6 percent of Williams Partners L.P., including the interests of the general partner, which is wholly owned by us. Considering the control of the general partner in accordance with EITF Issue No. 04 5, Williams Partners L.P. is consolidated within the Midstream segment. (See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Midstreams segment profit includes 100 percent of Williams Partners L.P.s segment profit, with the minority interests share deducted below segment profit. The debt and equity issued by Williams Partners L.P. to third parties is reported as a component of our consolidated debt balance and minority interest balance, respectively. In June 2007, Williams Partners L.P. completed its acquisition of our 20 percent interest in Discovery Producer Services, LLC (Discovery). Williams Partners L.P. now owns a 60 percent interest in Discovery. In December 2007, Williams Partners L.P. acquired certain of our membership interests in Wamsutter LLC, the limited liability company that owns the Wamsutter system, from us for $750 million. Williams Partners L.P. completed the transaction after successfully closing a public equity offering of 9.25 million common units that yielded net proceeds of approximately $335 million. The partnership primarily financed the remainder of the purchase price through utilizing $250 million of term loan borrowings and issuing approximately $157 million of common units to us. The $250 million term loan is under Williams Partners L.P.s new $450 million five year senior unsecured credit facility that became effective simultaneous with the closing of the Wamsutter transaction. (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) 56 Table of Contents Ignacio Gas Processing Plant Fire On November 28, 2007, there was a fire at the Ignacio gas processing plant. This fire resulted in severe damage to the facilitys cooling tower, control room, adjacent warehouse buildings and control systems. The plant was shut down until January 18, 2008. There were no injuries as a result of this incident and the plant now has full cryogenic recovery capability available for operation. The impact of the fire was immaterial to our results of operations. Outlook for 2008 The following factors could impact our business in 2008 and beyond. As evidenced in recent years, natural gas and crude oil markets are highly volatile. NGL margins earned at our gas processing plants in the last seven quarters were above our rolling five year average, due to global economics maintaining high crude prices which correlate to strong NGL prices in relationship to natural gas prices. Forecasted domestic demand for ethylene and propylene, along with political instability in many of the key oil producing countries, currently support NGL margins continuing to exceed our rolling five year average. Natural gas prices in the Rocky Mountain areas have trended lower throughout 2007 due to strong drilling activities increasing supplies while third party production volumes have been constrained by limited pipeline capacity. The construction of a new third party pipeline that began transporting gas from the Rocky Mountain areas in the beginning of 2008 would indicate increasing natural gas prices, moderating our future NGL margins. If the previously mentioned Overland Pass pipeline is not completed as scheduled, our NGL transportation costs will increase in the short term over 2007 levels. When the pipeline is complete, the terms of our transportation agreement represent significant savings compared to 2007. As part of our efforts to manage commodity price risks on an enterprise basis, during December 2007 and January and February 2008, we entered into various financial contracts. Approximately 28 percent of our forecasted domestic NGL sales for 2008 are hedged with collar agreements or fixed price swap contracts. Approximately 24 percent of our forecasted domestic NGL sales have been hedged with collar agreements at a weighted average sales price range of 9 percent to 22 percent above our average 2007 domestic NGL sales price and approximately 4 percent of our forecasted domestic NGL sales have been hedged with fixed price swap contracts. The natural gas shrink requirements associated with the sales under the fixed price swap contracts have also been hedged through Gas Marketing Services with physical gas purchase contracts, thus effectively hedging the margin on the volumes associated with fixed price swap contracts at a level about two times our rolling five year average and approximating our 2007 average. Margins in our olefins business are highly dependent upon continued economic growth within the United States and any significant slow down in the economy would reduce the demand for the petrochemical products we produce in both Canada and the United States. Based on our increased ownership in our Geismar facility, we anticipate results from our olefins business to be above 2007 levels. Gathering and processing fee revenues in our West region in 2008 are expected to be at or slightly above levels of previous years due to continued strong drilling activities in our core basins. We expect fee revenues in our Gulf Coast region to increase in 2008 as we expand our Devils Tower infrastructure to serve the Blind Faith and Bass Lite prospects. This increase is expected to be partially offset by lower volumes in other deepwater areas due to natural declines. Fee revenues include gathering, processing, production handling and transportation fees. Revenues from deepwater production areas are often subject to risks associated with the interruption and timing of product flows which can be influenced by weather and other third party operational issues. The construction of deepwater pipelines is subject to the risk of pipe collapse from stresses during installation as well as from high hydrostatic pressure that could delay completion and increase costs. Our Perdido Norte project is located in the Gulf Coast region in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and subject to these risks. 57 Table of Contents We will continue to invest in facilities in the growth basins in which we provide services. We expect continued expansion of our gathering and processing systems in our Gulf Coast and West regions to keep pace with increased demand for our services. As we pursue these activities, our operating and general and administrative expenses are expected to increase. We expect continued expansion in the deepwater areas of the Gulf of Mexico to contribute to our future segment revenues and segment profit. We expect these additional fee based revenues to lower our proportionate exposure to commodity price risks. The Venezuelan government continues its public criticism of U.S. economic and political policy, has implemented unilateral changes to existing energy related contracts, and has expropriated privately held assets within the energy and telecommunications sector, escalating our concern regarding political risk in Venezuela. Our right of way agreement with the Jicarilla Apache Nation (JAN), which covered certain gathering system assets in Rio Arriba County of northern New Mexico, expired on December 31, 2006. We currently operate our gathering assets on the JAN lands pursuant to a special business license granted by the JAN which expires February 29, 2008. We are engaged in discussions with the JAN designed to result in the sale of our gathering assets which are located on or are isolated by the JAN lands. Provided the parties are able to reach an acceptable value on the sale of the subject gathering assets, our expectation is that we will nonetheless maintain partial revenues associated with gathering and processing downstream of the JAN lands and continue to operate the gathering assets on the JAN lands for an undetermined period of time beyond February 29, 2008. Based on current estimated gathering volumes and range of annual average commodity prices over the past five years, we estimate that gas produced on or isolated by the JAN lands represents approximately $20 million to $30 million of the West regions annual gathering and processing revenue less related product costs. Year Over Year Results Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 5,180 $ 4,159 $ 3,291 Segment profit Domestic gathering processing 897 631 389 Venezuela 89 98 95 Other 174 16 42 Indirect general and administrative expense (88 ) (70 ) (66 ) Total $ 1,072 $ 675 $ 460 In order to provide additional clarity, our managements discussion and analysis of operating results separately reflects the portion of general and administrative expense not allocated to an asset group as indirect general and administrative expense. These charges represent any overhead cost not directly attributable to one of the specific asset groups noted in this discussion. 2007 vs. 2006 The $1,021 million, or 25 percent, increase in segment revenues is largely due to: A $528 million increase in revenues from the marketing of NGLs and olefins; A $303 million increase in revenues from our olefins production business; A $244 million increase in revenues associated with the production of NGLs. These increases are partially offset by a $35 million decrease in fee revenues. 58 Table of Contents Segment costs and expenses increased $645 million, or 18 percent, primarily as a result of: A $491 million increase in NGL and olefin marketing purchases; A $257 million increase in costs from our olefins production business; A $37 million increase in operating expenses including higher depreciation, maintenance, gathering fuel expenses and operating taxes; $24 million higher general and administrative expenses; A $10 million loss on impairment of the Carbonate Trend pipeline and an $8 million loss on impairment of certain other assets; The absence of $11 million of net gains on the sales of assets in 2006. These increases are partially offset by; The absence of a 2006 charge of $73 million related to our Gulf Liquids litigation (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); A $95 million decrease in costs associated with the production of NGLs due primarily to lower natural gas prices; $12 million income in 2007 from a favorable litigation outcome. The $397 million, or 59 percent, increase in Midstreams segment profit reflects $339 million higher NGL margins and the absence of the previously mentioned $73 million Gulf Liquids litigation charge in 2006, as well as the other previously described changes in segment revenues and segment costs and expenses. A more detailed analysis of the segment profit of Midstreams various operations is presented as follows. Domestic gathering processing The $266 million increase in domestic gathering and processing segment profit includes a $308 million increase in the West region, partially offset by a $42 million decrease in the Gulf Coast region. The $308 million increase in our West regions segment profit primarily results from higher NGL margins, higher processing fee based revenues and income from a favorable litigation outcome, partially offset by higher operating expenses and lower gathering fee revenues. The significant components of this increase include the following: NGL margins increased $326 million in 2007 compared to 2006. This increase was driven by an increase in average per unit NGL prices, a decrease in costs associated with the production of NGLs reflecting lower natural gas prices and higher volumes due primarily to new capacity on the fifth cryogenic train at our Opal plant. Processing fee revenues increased $12 million. Processing volumes are higher due to customers electing to take liquids and pay processing fees. $12 million income in 2007 from a favorable litigation outcome. Gathering fee revenues decreased $6 million due primarily to natural volume declines and the shutdown of the Ignacio plant in the fourth quarter of 2007 as a result of the fire. Operating expenses increased $21 million including $9 million in higher depreciation, $9 million in higher treating plant and gathering fuel due primarily to the expiration of a favorable gas purchase contract, $5 million related to gas imbalance revaluation losses in the current year compared to gains in the prior year, $5 million higher leased compression costs and $4 million higher costs related to the Jicarilla lease arrangement. These were partially offset by the absence of a $7 million accounts payable accrual adjustment in 2006 and $5 million in lower system product losses. 59 Table of Contents The $42 million decrease in the Gulf Coast regions segment profit is primarily a result of lower volumes from our deepwater facilities, losses on impairments, and the absence of gains on assets in 2006, partially offset by higher NGL margins and higher other fee revenues. The significant components of this decrease include the following: Fee revenues from our deepwater assets decreased $40 million due primarily to declines in producers volumes. A $10 million loss on impairment of the Carbonate Trend pipeline and a $6 million loss on impairment of certain other assets. The absence of $8 million in gains on the sales of certain gathering assets and a processing plant in 2006 and $5 million lower involuntary conversion gains resulting from insurance proceeds used to rebuild the Cameron Meadows plant. NGL margins increased $14 million driven by higher NGL prices, partially offset by lower NGL recoveries and an increase in costs associated with the production of NGLs. Other fee revenues increased $8 million driven by higher water removal fees. Venezuela Segment profit for our Venezuela assets decreased $9 million. The decrease is primarily due to the absence of a $9 million gain from the settlement of a contract dispute in 2006, $6 million lower fee revenues due primarily to the discontinuance in 2007 of revenue recognition related to labor escalation receivables, $7 million higher operating expenses, and $8 million higher bad debt expense related to labor escalation receivables, partially offset by $19 million of higher currency exchange gains and $1 million higher equity earnings. Other The significant components of the $158 million increase in segment profit of our other operations include the following: The absence of the previously mentioned $73 million Gulf Liquids litigation charge in 2006; $46 million in higher margins from our olefins production business due primarily to the increase in ownership of the Geismar olefins facility in July 2007 and higher prices of NGL products produced in our Canadian olefins operations; $18 million in higher margins related to the marketing of olefins and $21 million in higher margins related to the marketing of NGLs due to more favorable changes in pricing while product was in transit during 2007 as compared to 2006; An $8 million reversal of a maintenance accrual (see below); $9 million higher Aux Sable equity earnings primarily due to favorable processing margins; $11 million higher Discovery equity earnings primarily due to higher NGL margins and volumes. These increases are partially offset by: $19 million in higher foreign exchange losses related to the revaluation of current assets held in U.S. dollars within our Canadian operations; The absence of a $4 million favorable transportation settlement in 2006. Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. AUG AIR 1, Accounting for Planned Major Maintenance Activities. As a result, we recognized as other income an $8 million reversal of an accrual for major maintenance on our Geismar ethane cracker. We did not apply the FSP retrospectively because the impact to our first quarter 2007 and estimated full year 2007 earnings, as well as the impact to prior periods, is not material. We have adopted the deferral method for accounting for these costs going forward. 60 Table of Contents Indirect general and administrative expense The $18 million, or 26 percent, increase in indirect general and administrative expense is due primarily to higher technical support services and other charges for various administrative support functions and higher employee expenses. 2006 vs. 2005 The $868 million, or 26 percent, increase in segment revenues is largely due to: A $561 million increase in crude marketing revenues, which is offset by a similar change in costs, resulting from additional deepwater production coming on line in November 2005; A $165 million increase in revenues associated with the production of NGLs, primarily due to higher NGL prices combined with higher volumes; A $137 million increase in the marketing of NGLs and olefins, which is offset by a similar change in costs; An $83 million increase in fee based revenues including $52 million in higher production handling revenues; A $44 million increase in revenues in our olefins unit due to higher volumes. These increases were partially offset by an $84 million reduction in NGL revenues due to a change in classification of NGL transportation and fractionation expenses from costs of goods sold to net revenues (offset in costs and operating expenses). Segment costs and expenses increased $688 million, or 23 percent, primarily as a result of: A $561 million increase in crude marketing purchases, which is offset by a similar change in revenues; A $137 million increase in NGL and olefins marketing purchases, offset by a similar change in revenues; An $82 million increase in operating expenses including an $11 million accounts payable accrual adjustment, higher system losses, depreciation, insurance expense, personnel and related benefit expenses, turbine overhauls, materials and supplies, compression and post hurricane inspection and survey costs required by a government agency; A $59 million increase in other expense including the $73 million charge related to the Gulf Liquids litigation, partially offset by a $9 million favorable settlement of a contract dispute; A $20 million increase in costs associated with production in our olefins unit. These increases were partially offset by: An $84 million reduction in NGL transportation and fractionation expenses due to the above noted change in classification (offset in revenues); A $77 million decrease in plant fuel and costs associated with the production of NGLs due primarily to lower gas prices. The $215 million, or 47 percent, increase in Midstream segment profit is primarily due to higher NGL margins, higher deepwater production handling revenues, higher gathering and processing revenues, higher margins from our olefins unit, and a settlement of an international contract dispute, and the absence of a $23 million impairment of our equity investment in Aux Sable Liquid Products L.P. (Aux Sable) recorded in 2005. These increases were largely offset by the $73 million charge related to the Gulf Liquids litigation contingency combined with higher operating costs and lower margins related to the marketing of olefins and NGLs. A more detailed analysis of the segment profit of Midstreams various operations is presented as follows. 61 Table of Contents Domestic gathering processing The $242 million increase in domestic gathering and processing segment profit includes a $138 million increase in the West region and a $104 million increase in the Gulf Coast region. The $138 million increase in our West regions segment profit primarily results from higher product margins and higher gathering and processing revenues, partially offset by higher operating expenses. The significant components of this increase include the following: NGL margins increased $166 million compared to 2005. This increase was driven by a decrease in costs associated with the production of NGLs, an increase in average per unit NGL prices and higher volumes resulting from lower NGL recoveries during the fourth quarter of 2005 caused by intermittent periods of uneconomical market commodity prices and a power outage and associated operational issues at our Opal, Wyoming facility. NGL margins are defined as NGL revenues less BTU replacement cost, plant fuel, and transportation and fractionation expense. Gathering and processing fee revenues increased $26 million. Gathering fees are higher as a result of higher average per unit gathering rates. Processing volumes are higher due to customers electing to take liquids and pay processing fees. Operating expenses increased $51 million including $11 million in higher net system product losses as a result of system gains in 2005 compared to losses in 2006, a $7 million accounts payable accrual adjustment; $8 million in higher personnel and related benefit expenses; $6 million in higher materials and supplies; $6 million in higher gathering fuel, $4 million in higher leased compression costs; $4 million in higher turbine overhaul costs; and $4 million in higher depreciation. The $104 million increase in the Gulf Coast regions segment profit is primarily a result of higher NGL margins, higher volumes from our deepwater facilities, partially offset by higher operating expenses. The significant components of this increase include the following: NGL margins increased $77 million compared to 2005. This increase was driven by an increase in average per unit NGL prices and a decrease in costs associated with the production of NGLs. Fee revenues from our deepwater assets increased $52 million as a result of $51 million in higher volumes flowing across the Devils Tower facility and $22 million in higher Devils Tower unit of production rates recognized as a result of a new reserve study. These increases are partially offset by a $21 million decline in other gathering and production handling revenues due to volume declines in other areas. Operating expenses increased $25 million primarily as a result of $12 million in higher insurance costs, $4 million in higher depreciation expense on our deepwater assets, $3 million in higher net system product losses as a result of lower gain volumes in 2006, $2 million in post hurricane inspection and survey costs required by a government agency, and a $1 million accounts payable accrual adjustment. Venezuela Segment profit for our Venezuela assets increased $3 million and includes $9 million resulting from the settlement of a contract dispute and $1 million in higher revenues due to higher natural gas volumes and prices at our compression facility. These are partially offset by $4 million in higher expenses related to higher insurance, personnel and contract labor costs and a $2 million increase in the reserve for uncollectible accounts. Other The $26 million decrease in segment profit of our other operations is largely due to the $73 million of charges related to the Gulf Liquids litigation contingency combined with $13 million in lower margins related to the marketing of olefins. The decrease also reflects $12 million in lower margins related to the marketing of NGLs due to more favorable changes in pricing while product was in transit during 2005 as compared to 2006. These were partially offset by the absence of a $23 million impairment of our equity investment in Aux Sable in 2005, $24 million in higher margins in our olefins unit, $7 million in higher earnings from our equity investment in 62 Table of Contents Discovery Producer Services, L.L.C. (Discovery), $7 million in higher fractionation, storage and other fee revenues, and a $4 million favorable transportation settlement. Gas Marketing Services Gas Marketing Services (Gas Marketing) primarily supports our natural gas businesses by providing marketing and risk management services, which include marketing and hedging the gas produced by Exploration Production, and procuring fuel and shrink gas and hedging natural gas liquids sales for Midstream. In addition, Gas Marketing manages various natural gas related contracts such as transportation, storage, and related hedges, including certain legacy natural gas contracts and positions, and provides services to third parties, such as producers. Overview of 2007 Gas Marketings operating results for 2007 were primarily driven by a loss of approximately $166 million related to certain legacy derivative natural gas contracts that we expect to assign to another party in 2008 under an asset transfer agreement that we executed in December 2007. In addition, a decrease in forward natural gas basis prices against a net long legacy derivative position contributed to the losses as well. Outlook for 2008 For 2008, Gas Marketing intends to focus on providing services that support our natural gas businesses. Certain legacy natural gas contracts and positions from our former Power segment remain in the Gas Marketing segment. Gas Marketings earnings may continue to reflect mark to market volatility from commodity based derivatives that represent economic hedges but are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes or do not qualify for hedge accounting. However, this mark to market volatility is expected to be significantly reduced compared with previous levels. Year Over Year Results Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Millions) Realized revenues $ 4,948 $ 5,185 $ 6,147 Net forward unrealized mark to market gains (losses) (315 ) (136 ) 188 Segment revenues 4,633 5,049 6,335 Costs and operating expenses 4,937 5,258 6,238 Gross margin (304 ) (209 ) 97 Selling, general and administrative (income) expense 13 (13 ) (1 ) Other (income) expense net 20 (1 ) 89 Segment profit (loss) $ (337 ) $ (195 ) $ 9 2007 vs. 2006 Realized revenues represent (1) revenue from the sale of natural gas and (2) gains and losses from the net financial settlement of derivative contracts. Realized revenues decreased $237 million primarily due to a decrease in net financial settlements of derivative contracts. This is partially offset by an increase in physical natural gas revenue as a result of a 9 percent increase in natural gas sales volumes partially offset by a 6 percent decrease in average prices on physical natural gas sales. Net forward unrealized mark to market gains (losses) primarily represent changes in the fair values of certain legacy derivative contracts with a future settlement or delivery date that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes or do not qualify for hedge accounting. A $156 million loss related to a legacy derivative natural gas sales contract, that we expect to assign to another party in 2008 under an asset transfer agreement that we executed in 63 Table of Contents December 2007, primarily caused the unfavorable change in net forward unrealized mark to market gains (losses). Prior to the execution of the asset transfer agreement, we accounted for this legacy contract on an accrual basis under the normal purchases and normal sales exception of SFAS 133. Due to the pending assignment of the legacy contract, we no longer consider the contract to be in the normal course of business. Therefore, we recognized a loss to reflect the current negative fair value of the contract. In addition, losses on gas purchase contracts caused by a decrease in forward natural gas prices were greater in 2007 than in 2006. The $321 million decrease in Gas Marketings costs and operating expenses is primarily due to a 7 percent decrease in average prices on physical natural gas purchases, partially offset by a 4 percent increase in natural gas purchase volumes. The unfavorable change in selling, general and administrative (income) expense is due primarily to the absence of a $25 million gain from the sale of certain receivables to a third party in 2006. Other (income) expense net in 2007 includes a $20 million accrual for litigation contingencies. The $142 million increase in segment loss is primarily due to the loss recognized on a legacy derivative sales contract previously treated as a normal purchase and normal sale, a $20 million accrual for litigation contingencies, and the absence of a $25 million gain from the sale of certain receivables as described above, partially offset by an improvement in accrual gross margin. 2006 vs. 2005 Realized revenues decreased $962 million primarily due to a 17 percent decrease in average prices on physical natural gas sales. The effect of a change in forward prices on legacy natural gas derivative contracts primarily caused the $324 million unfavorable change in net forward unrealized mark to market gains (losses). A decrease in forward natural gas prices during 2006 caused losses on legacy net forward gas fixed price purchase contracts, while an increase in forward natural gas prices during 2005 caused gains on legacy net forward gas fixed price purchase contracts. The $980 million decrease in Gas Marketings costs and operating expenses is primarily due to an 18 percent decrease in average prices on physical natural gas purchases. The favorable change in selling, general and administrative (income) expense is due primarily to increased gains from the sale of certain receivables to a third party. Gas Marketing recognized a $25 million gain in 2006 compared to a $10 million gain in 2005. Other (income) expense net in 2005 includes an $82 million accrual for estimated litigation contingencies, primarily associated with agreements reached to substantially resolve exposure related to natural gas price and volume reporting issues (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) and a $5 million accrual for a regulatory settlement. The $204 million change from a segment profit to a segment loss is primarily due to the effect of a change in forward prices on legacy natural gas derivative contracts, partially offset by favorable changes in other (income) expense net described above. Other Year Over Year Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 26 $ 27 $ 27 Segment loss $ (1 ) $ (13 ) $ (123 ) 64 Table of Contents 2007 vs. 2006 The improvement in segment loss for 2007 is primarily driven by $5 million of net gains on the sale of land. 2006 vs. 2005 Other segment loss for 2005 includes $87 million of impairment charges, of which $38 million was recorded during the fourth quarter, related to our investment in Longhorn. In a related matter, we wrote off $4 million of capitalized project costs associated with Longhorn. We also recorded $24 million of equity losses associated with our investment in Longhorn. Partially offsetting these charges and losses was a $9 million fourth quarter gain on the sale of land. Energy Trading Activities Fair Value of Trading and Nontrading Derivatives The chart below reflects the fair value of derivatives held for trading purposes as of December 31, 2007. We have presented the fair value of assets and liabilities by the period in which they would be realized under their contractual terms and not as a result of a sale. We have reported the fair value of a portion of these derivatives in assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. (See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Net Assets (Liabilities) Trading (Millions) To be To be To be To be To be Realized in Realized in Realized in Realized in Realized in 1 12 Months 13 36 Months 37 60 Months 61 120 Months 121+ Months Net (Year 1) (Years 2 3) (Years 4 5) (Years 6 10) (Years 11+) Fair Value $(1) $ (1 ) $ (1 ) $ (1 ) $ $ (4 ) As the table above illustrates, we are not materially engaged in trading activities. However, we hold a substantial portfolio of nontrading derivative contracts. Nontrading derivative contracts are those that hedge or could possibly hedge forecasted transactions on an economic basis. We have designated certain of these contracts as cash flow hedges of Exploration Productions forecasted sales of natural gas production and Midstreams forecasted sales of natural gas liquids under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (SFAS 133). Of the total fair value of nontrading derivatives, SFAS 133 cash flow hedges had a net liability value of $268 million as of December 31, 2007. The chart below reflects the fair value of derivatives held for nontrading purposes as of December 31, 2007, for Gas Marketing Services, Exploration Production, Midstream, and nontrading derivatives reported in assets and liabilities of discontinued operations. Net Assets (Liabilities) Nontrading (Millions) To be To be To be To be To be Realized in Realized in Realized in Realized in Realized in 1 12 Months 13 36 Months 37 60 Months 61 120 Months 121+ Months Net (Year 1) (Years 2 3) (Years 4 5) (Years 6 10) (Years 11+) Fair Value $(87) $ (268 ) $ (8 ) $ (1 ) $ $ (364 ) Methods of Estimating Fair Value Most of the derivatives we hold settle in active periods and markets in which quoted market prices are available. These include futures contracts, option contracts, swap agreements and physical commodity purchases and sales in the commodity markets in which we transact. While an active market may not exist for the entire period, quoted prices can generally be obtained for natural gas through 2012. These prices reflect current economic and regulatory conditions and may change because of market conditions. The availability of quoted market prices in active markets varies between periods and commodities based 65 Table of Contents upon changes in market conditions. The ability to obtain quoted market prices also varies greatly from region to region. The time periods noted above are an estimation of aggregate availability of quoted prices. An immaterial portion of our total net derivative liability value of $368 million relates to periods in which active quotes cannot be obtained. We estimate energy commodity prices in these illiquid periods by incorporating information about commodity prices in actively quoted markets, quoted prices in less active markets, and other market fundamental analysis. Modeling and other valuation techniques, however, are not used significantly in determining the fair value of our derivatives. Counterparty Credit Considerations We include an assessment of the risk of counterparty nonperformance in our estimate of fair value for all contracts. Such assessment considers (1) the credit rating of each counterparty as represented by public rating agencies such as Standard Poors and Moodys Investors Service, (2) the inherent default probabilities within these ratings, (3) the regulatory environment that the contract is subject to and (4) the terms of each individual contract. Risks surrounding counterparty performance and credit could ultimately impact the amount and timing of expected cash flows. We continually assess this risk. We have credit protection within various agreements to call on additional collateral support if necessary. At December 31, 2007, we held collateral support, including letters of credit, of $215 million. We also enter into master netting agreements to mitigate counterparty performance and credit risk. During 2007 and 2006, we did not incur any significant losses due to recent counterparty bankruptcy filings. The gross credit exposure from our derivative contracts, a portion of which is included in assets of discontinued operations (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), as of December 31, 2007, is summarized below. Investment Counterparty Type Grade(a) Total (Millions) Gas and electric utilities $ 78 $ 79 Energy marketers and traders 224 1,328 Financial institutions 1,302 1,302 Other 1 $ 1,604 2,710 Credit reserves (1 ) Gross credit exposure from derivatives $ 2,709 We assess our credit exposure on a net basis to reflect master netting agreements in place with certain counterparties. We offset our credit exposure to each counterparty with amounts we owe the counterparty under derivative contracts. The net credit exposure from our derivatives as of December 31, 2007, is summarized below. Investment Counterparty Type Grade(a) Total (Millions) Gas and electric utilities $ 17 $ 17 Energy marketers and traders 18 20 Financial institutions 45 45 Other $ 80 82 Credit reserves (1 ) Net credit exposure from derivatives $ 81 66 Table of Contents (a) We determine investment grade primarily using publicly available credit ratings. We include counterparties with a minimum Standard Poors rating of BBB or Moodys Investors Service rating of Baa3 in investment grade. We also classify counterparties that have provided sufficient collateral, such as cash, standby letters of credit, adequate parent company guarantees, and property interests, as investment grade. Trading Policy We have policies and procedures that govern our trading and risk management activities. These policies cover authority and delegation thereof in addition to control requirements, authorized commodities and term and exposure limitations. Value at risk is limited in aggregate and calculated at a 95 percent confidence level. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition Outlook We believe we have, or have access to, the financial resources and liquidity necessary to meet future requirements for working capital, capital and investment expenditures and debt payments while maintaining a sufficient level of liquidity to reasonably protect against unforeseen circumstances requiring the use of funds. We also expect to maintain our investment grade status. In 2008, we expect to maintain liquidity from cash and cash equivalents and unused revolving credit facilities of at least $1 billion. We maintain adequate liquidity to manage margin requirements related to significant movements in commodity prices, unplanned capital spending needs, near term scheduled debt payments, and litigation and other settlements. We expect to fund capital and investment expenditures, debt payments, dividends, stock repurchases and working capital requirements through cash flow from operations, which is currently estimated to be between $2.3 billion and $2.7 billion in 2008, proceeds from debt issuances and sales of units of Williams Partners L.P. and Williams Pipeline Partners L.P., as well as cash and cash equivalents on hand as needed. We enter 2008 positioned for continued growth through disciplined investments in our natural gas businesses. Examples of this planned growth include: Exploration Production will continue to maintain its development drilling program in its key basins of Piceance, Powder River, San Juan, Arkoma, and Fort Worth. Gas Pipeline will continue to expand its system to meet the demand of growth markets. Midstream will continue to pursue significant deepwater production commitments and expand capacity in the western United States. We estimate capital and investment expenditures will total approximately $2.6 billion to $2.9 billion in 2008. As a result of increasing our development drilling program, $1.45 billion to $1.65 billion of the total estimated 2008 capital expenditures is related to Exploration Production. Also within the total estimated expenditures for 2008 is approximately $180 million to $260 million for compliance and maintenance related projects at Gas Pipeline, including Clean Air Act compliance. Commitments for construction and acquisition of property, plant and equipment are approximately $484 million at December 31, 2007. Potential risks associated with our planned levels of liquidity and the planned capital and investment expenditures discussed above include: Lower than expected levels of cash flow from operations due to commodity pricing volatility. To mitigate this exposure, Exploration Production has fixed price hedges for approximately 70 MMcfe per day of its expected 2008 production. In addition, Exploration Production has collar agreements for 2008 which hedge approximately 397 MMcfe per day of expected 2008 production. Sensitivity of margin requirements associated with our marginable commodity contracts. As of December 31, 2007, we estimate our exposure to additional margin requirements through 2008 to be no more than $125 million, using a statistical analysis at a 99 percent confidence level. 67 Table of Contents Exposure associated with our efforts to resolve regulatory and litigation issues (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The impact of a general economic downturn, including any associated volatility in the credit markets and our access to liquidity and the capital markets. In August 2006, the Pension Protection Act of 2006 was signed into law. The Act makes significant changes to the requirements for employer sponsored retirement plans, including revisions affecting the funding of defined benefit pension plans beginning in 2008. We have assessed the impact of the legislation on our future funding requirements and do not expect a significant increase in minimum funding requirements over current levels, assuming long term rates of return on assets and current discount rates do not experience a significant decline. Overview In February 2007, Exploration Production entered into a five year unsecured credit agreement with certain banks in order to reduce margin requirements related to our hedging activities as well as lower transaction fees. Under the credit agreement, Exploration Production is not required to post collateral as long as the value of its domestic natural gas reserves, as determined under the provisions of the agreement, exceeds by a specified amount certain of its obligations including any outstanding debt and the aggregate out of the money positions on hedges entered into under the credit agreement. Exploration Production is subject to additional covenants under the credit agreement including restrictions on hedge limits, the creation of liens, the incurrence of debt, the sale of assets and properties, and making certain payments, such as dividends, under certain circumstances. On April 4, 2007, Northwest Pipeline retired $175 million of 8.125 percent senior notes due 2010. Northwest Pipeline paid premiums of approximately $7 million in conjunction with the early debt retirement. On April 5, 2007, Northwest Pipeline issued $185 million aggregate principal amount of 5.95 percent senior unsecured notes due 2017 to certain institutional investors in a private debt placement. Northwest Pipeline initiated an exchange offer on July 26, 2007, which expired on August 23, 2007. Northwest Pipeline received full participation in the exchange offer. (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) In July 2007, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1 billion of our common stock. We intend to purchase shares of our stock from time to time in open market transactions or through privately negotiated or structured transactions at our discretion, subject to market conditions and other factors. This stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date. We plan to fund this program with cash on hand. In 2007, we purchased approximately 16 million shares for $526 million under the program at an average cost of $33.08 per share. During third quarter 2007, we formed Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. (WMZ) to own and operate natural gas transportation and storage assets. In January 2008, WMZ completed its initial public offering of 16.25 million common units at a price of $20.00 per unit. In February 2008, the underwriters also exercised their right to purchase an additional 1.65 million common units at the same price. A subsidiary of ours serves as the general partner of WMZ. The initial asset of the partnership is a 35 percent interest in Northwest Pipeline GP, formerly Northwest Pipeline Corporation. Upon completion of the transaction, we hold approximately 47.7 percent of the interests in WMZ, including the interests of the general partner. In December 2007, Williams Partners L.P. acquired certain of our membership interests in Wamsutter LLC, the limited liability company that owns the Wamsutter system, from us for $750 million. Williams Partners L.P. completed the transaction after successfully closing a public equity offering of 9.25 million common units that yielded net proceeds of approximately $335 million. The partnership financed the remainder of the purchase price primarily through utilizing $250 million of term loan borrowings and issuing approximately $157 million of common units to us. The $250 million term loan is under Williams Partners L.P.s new $450 million five year senior unsecured credit facility that became effective simultaneous with the closing of the Wamsutter transaction. The remaining $200 million of capacity under the new facility is available for revolving credit borrowings. In December 2007, we repurchased $213 million of our 7.125 percent senior unsecured notes due September 2011 and $22 million of our 8.125 percent senior unsecured notes due March 2012. In conjunction with these early 68 Table of Contents retirements, we paid premiums of approximately $19 million. These premiums, as well as related fees and expenses are recorded as early debt retirement costs in the Consolidated Statement of Income. Credit ratings On March 19, 2007, Standard Poors raised our senior unsecured debt rating from a BB to a BB with a stable ratings outlook. On May 21, 2007, Standard Poors revised its ratings outlook to positive from stable. On November 9, 2007, Standard Poors raised our senior unsecured debt rating from a BB to a BB+ and our corporate credit rating from a BB+ to a BBB with a ratings outlook of stable. With respect to Standard Poors, a rating of BBB or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below BBB indicates that the security has significant speculative characteristics. A BB rating indicates that Standard Poors believes the issuer has the capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation, but adverse business conditions could lead to insufficient ability to meet financial commitments. Standard Poors may modify its ratings with a + or a sign to show the obligors relative standing within a major rating category. On May 21, 2007, Moodys Investors Service placed our ratings under review for possible upgrade. On November 15, 2007, Moodys Investors Service raised our senior unsecured debt rating from a Ba2 to a Baa3 with a ratings outlook of stable. With respect to Moodys, a rating of Baa or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below Baa is considered to have speculative elements. A Ba rating indicates an obligation that is judged to have speculative elements and is subject to substantial credit risk. The 1, 2 and 3 modifiers show the relative standing within a major category. A 1 indicates that an obligation ranks in the higher end of the broad rating category, 2 indicates a mid range ranking, and 3 ranking at the lower end of the category. On May 21, 2007, Fitch Ratings revised its ratings outlook to positive from stable. On November 20, 2007, Fitch Ratings raised our senior unsecured debt rating from a BB+ to a BBB with a ratings outlook of stable. With respect to Fitch, a rating of BBB or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below BBB is considered speculative grade. A BB rating from Fitch indicates that there is a possibility of credit risk developing, particularly as the result of adverse economic change over time; however, business or financial alternatives may be available to allow financial commitments to be met. Fitch may add a + or a sign to show the obligors relative standing within a major rating category. Liquidity Our internal and external sources of liquidity include cash generated from our operations, bank financings, and proceeds from the issuance of long term debt and equity securities, and proceeds from asset sales. While most of our sources are available to us at the parent level, others are available to certain of our subsidiaries, including equity and debt issuances from Williams Partners L.P. and Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. Our ability to raise funds in the capital markets will be impacted by our financial condition, interest rates, market conditions, and industry conditions. Available Liquidity Year Ended December 31, 2007 (Millions) Cash and cash equivalents* $ 1,699 Securities 20 Available capacity under our four unsecured revolving and letter of credit facilities totaling $1.2 billion 858 Available capacity under our $1.5 billion unsecured revolving and letter of credit facility** 1,222 Available capacity under Williams Partners L.P.s $450 million five year senior unsecured credit facility (see previous discussion) 200 $ 3,999 69 Table of Contents * Cash and cash equivalents includes $10 million of funds received from third parties as collateral. The obligation for these amounts is reported in accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Also included is $475 million of cash and cash equivalents that is being utilized by certain subsidiary and international operations. ** Northwest Pipeline and Transco each have access to $400 million under this facility to the extent not utilized by us. In 2007, Northwest Pipeline borrowed $250 million under this facility to retire matured notes, and in January 2008, Transco borrowed $100 million. In addition to the above, Northwest Pipeline and Transco have shelf registration statements available for the issuance of up to $350 million aggregate principal amount of debt securities. If the credit rating of Northwest Pipeline or Transco is below investment grade for all credit rating agencies, they can only use their shelf registration statements to issue debt if such debt is guaranteed by us. Williams Partners L.P. has a shelf registration statement available for the issuance of approximately $1.2 billion aggregate principal amount of debt and limited partnership unit securities. In addition, at the parent company level, we have a shelf registration statement that allows us to issue publicly registered debt and equity securities as needed. In February 2007, Exploration Production entered into a five year unsecured credit agreement with certain banks which serves to reduce our usage of cash and other credit facilities for margin requirements related to our hedging activities as well as lower transaction fees. (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) On May 9, 2007, we amended our $1.5 billion unsecured credit facility extending the maturity date from May 1, 2009 to May 1, 2012. Applicable borrowing rates and commitment fees for investment grade credit ratings were also modified. Sources (Uses) of Cash Years Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (Millions) Net cash provided (used) by: Operating activities $ 2,237 $ 1,890 $ 1,450 Financing activities (511 ) 1,103 36 Investing activities (2,296 ) (2,321 ) (819 ) Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (570 ) $ 672 $ 667 Operating Activities Our net cash provided by operating activities in 2007 increased from 2006 due primarily to the increase in our operating results and the absence of a $145 million securities litigation settlement payment in 2006. These increases are partially offset by increased income tax payments in 2007 and other changes in working capital. Our net cash provided by operating activities in 2006 increased from 2005 due largely to higher operating income at Midstream, partially offset by a $145 million securities litigation settlement payment in fourth quarter 2006. Financing Activities 2007 See Overview, within this section, for a discussion of 2007 debt issuances, retirements, stock repurchases, and additional financing by Williams Partners L.P. 70 Table of Contents Quarterly dividends paid on common stock increased from $.09 to $.10 per common share during the second quarter of 2007 and totaled $233 million for year ended December 31, 2007. 2006 Transco issued $200 million aggregate principal amount of 6.4 percent senior unsecured notes due 2016. Northwest Pipeline issued $175 million aggregate principal amount of 7 percent senior unsecured notes due 2016. Williams Partners L.P. acquired our interest in Williams Four Corners LLC for $1.6 billion. The acquisition was completed after Williams Partners L.P. successfully closed a $150 million private debt offering of 7.5 percent senior unsecured notes due 2011, a $600 million private debt offering of 7.25 percent senior unsecured notes due 2017, $350 million of common and Class B units, and equity offerings of $519 million in net proceeds. We paid $489 million to retire a secured floating rate term loan due in 2008. We paid $26 million in premiums related to the conversion of $220 million of 5.5 percent junior subordinated convertible debentures into common stock. Quarterly dividends paid on common stock increased from $.075 to $.09 per share during the second quarter of 2006 and totaled $207 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. 2005 We retired $200 million of 6.125 percent notes issued by Transco, which matured January 15, 2005. We received $273 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock purchased under the FELINE PACS equity forward contracts. We completed an initial public offering of approximately 40 percent of our interest in Williams Partners L.P. resulting in net proceeds of $111 million. Quarterly dividends paid on common stock increased from $.05 to $.075 per common share during the third quarter of 2005 and totaled $143 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Investing Activities 2007 Capital expenditures totaled $2.8 billion and were primarily related to Exploration Productions drilling activity, mostly in the Piceance basin. We received $496 million of gross proceeds from the sale of substantially all of our power business. We purchased $304 million and received $353 million from the sale of auction rate securities. 2006 Capital expenditures totaled $2.5 billion and were primarily related to Exploration Productions drilling activity, mostly in the Piceance basin, and Northwest Pipelines capacity replacement project. We purchased $386 million and received $414 million from the sale of auction rate securities. 2005 Capital expenditures totaled $1.3 billion and were primarily related to Exploration Productions drilling activity, mostly in the Piceance basin, and Gas Pipelines normal maintenance and compliance. We received $310 million in proceeds from the Gulfstream recapitalization. 71 Table of Contents We purchased $224 million and received $138 million from the sale of auction rate securities. Northwest Pipeline received an $88 million contract termination payment, representing reimbursement of the net book value of the related assets. We received $55 million proceeds from the sale of our note with Williams Communications Group, our previously owned subsidiary. Off balance sheet financing arrangements and guarantees of debt or other commitments We have various other guarantees and commitments which are disclosed in Notes 2, 3, 10, 11, 14, and 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We do not believe these guarantees or the possible fulfillment of them will prevent us from meeting our liquidity needs. Contractual Obligations The table below summarizes the maturity dates of our contractual obligations, including obligations related to discontinued operations. 2009 2011 2008 2010 2012 Thereafter Total (Millions) Long term debt, including current portion: Principal $ 138 $ 92 $ 2,531 $ 5,160 $ 7,921 Interest 585 1,142 1,011 4,743 7,481 Capital leases 6 6 12 Operating leases 84 94 28 19 225 Purchase obligations(1) 1,351 1,347 1,297 2,859 6,854 Other long term liabilities, including current portion: Physical and financial derivatives(2)(3) 478 661 269 321 1,729 Other(4)(5) 5 1 6 Total $ 2,647 $ 3,343 $ 5,136 $ 13,102 $ 24,228 (1) Includes $4.4 billion of natural gas purchase obligations at market prices at our Exploration Production segment. The purchased natural gas can be sold at market prices. (2) The obligations for physical and financial derivatives are based on market information as of December 31, 2007. Because market information changes daily and has the potential to be volatile, significant changes to the values in this category may occur. (3) Expected offsetting cash inflows of $5.6 billion at December 31, 2007, resulting from product sales or net positive settlements, are not reflected in these amounts. In addition, product sales may require additional purchase obligations to fulfill sales obligations that are not reflected in these amounts. (4) Does not include estimated contributions to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. We made contributions to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans of $56 million in 2007 and $57 million in 2006. In 2008, we expect to contribute approximately $56 million to these plans (see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), including $40 million to our tax qualified pension plans. There were no minimum funding requirements to our tax qualified pension plans in 2007 or 2006, and we do not expect any minimum funding requirements in 2008. We anticipate that future contributions will not vary significantly from recent historical contributions, assuming actual results do not differ significantly from estimated results for assumptions such as discount rates, returns on plan assets, retirement rates, mortality and other significant assumptions, and assuming no further changes in current and prospective legislation and regulations. Based on these anticipated levels of future contributions, we do not expect to trigger any minimum funding requirements in the future; however, we may elect to make contributions to increase the funded status of our plans. 72 Table of Contents (5) On January 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes. As of December 31, 2007, we have accrued approximately $76 million for unrecognized tax benefits. We cannot make reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of the future payments of these liabilities. Therefore, these liabilities have been excluded from the table above. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our contingent tax liability reserves. Effects of Inflation Our operations have benefited from relatively low inflation rates. Approximately 42 percent of our gross property, plant and equipment is at Gas Pipeline and the remainder is at other operating units. Gas Pipeline is subject to regulation, which limits recovery to historical cost. While amounts in excess of historical cost are not recoverable under current FERC practices, we anticipate being allowed to recover and earn a return based on increased actual cost incurred to replace existing assets. Cost based regulation, along with competition and other market factors, may limit our ability to recover such increased costs. For the other operating units, operating costs are influenced to a greater extent by both competition for specialized services and specific price changes in oil and natural gas and related commodities than by changes in general inflation. Crude, natural gas, and natural gas liquids prices are particularly sensitive to OPEC production levels and or the market perceptions concerning the supply and demand balance in the near future. However, our exposure to these price changes is reduced through the use of hedging instruments. Environmental We are a participant in certain environmental activities in various stages including assessment studies, cleanup operations and or remedial processes at certain sites, some of which we currently do not own. (See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) We are monitoring these sites in a coordinated effort with other potentially responsible parties, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or other governmental authorities. We are jointly and severally liable along with unrelated third parties in some of these activities and solely responsible in others. Current estimates of the most likely costs of such activities are approximately $46 million, all of which are recorded as liabilities on our balance sheet at December 31, 2007. We will seek recovery of approximately $13 million of the accrued costs through future natural gas transmission rates. The remainder of these costs will be funded from operations. During 2007, we paid approximately $14 million for cleanup and or remediation and monitoring activities. We expect to pay approximately $15 million in 2008 for these activities. Estimates of the most likely costs of cleanup are generally based on completed assessment studies, preliminary results of studies or our experience with other similar cleanup operations. At December 31, 2007, certain assessment studies were still in process for which the ultimate outcome may yield significantly different estimates of most likely costs. Therefore, the actual costs incurred will depend on the final amount, type and extent of contamination discovered at these sites, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA or other governmental authorities, and other factors. We are subject to the federal Clean Air Act and to the federal Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, which require the EPA to issue new regulations. We are also subject to regulation at the state and local level. In September 1998, the EPA promulgated rules designed to mitigate the migration of ground level ozone in certain states. In March 2004 and June 2004, the EPA promulgated additional regulation regarding hazardous air pollutants, which may impose additional controls. Capital expenditures necessary to install emission control devices on our Transco gas pipeline system to comply with rules were approximately $3 million in 2007 and are estimated to be between $25 million and $30 million through 2010. The actual costs incurred will depend on the final implementation plans developed by each state to comply with these regulations. We consider these costs on our Transco system associated with compliance with these environmental laws and regulations to be prudent costs incurred in the ordinary course of business and, therefore, recoverable through its rates. 73 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk Our current interest rate risk exposure is related primarily to our debt portfolio. The majority of our debt portfolio is comprised of fixed rate debt in order to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in interest rates. The maturity of our long term debt portfolio is partially influenced by the expected lives of our operating assets. The tables below provide information about our interest rate risk sensitive instruments as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. Long term debt in the tables represents principal cash flows, net of (discount) premium, and weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. The fair value of our publicly traded long term debt is valued using indicative year end traded bond market prices. Private debt is valued based on the prices of similar securities with similar terms and credit ratings. Fair Value December 31, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter(1) Total 2007 (Dollars in millions) Long term debt, including current portion(4): Fixed rate $ 53 $ 41 $ 27 $ 948 $ 971 $ 5,111 $ 7,151 $ 7,994 Interest rate 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.4 % 7.4 % 7.3 % 7.7 % Variable rate $ 85 $ 12 $ 12 $ 7 $ 605 (5) $ 18 $ 739 $ 735 Interest rate(2) Fair Value December 31, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter(1) Total 2006 (Dollars in millions) Long term debt, including current portion(4): Fixed rate $ 381 $ 153 $ 41 $ 205 $ 1,161 $ 5,922 $ 7,863 $ 8,343 Interest rate 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.5 % 7.6 % 7.8 % Variable rate $ 10 $ 85 $ 12 $ 12 $ 7 $ 23 $ 149 $ 137 Interest rate(3) (1) Includes unamortized discount and premium. (2) The interest rate at December 31, 2007, is LIBOR plus 1 percent. (3) The interest rate at December 31, 2006 was LIBOR plus 1 percent. (4) Excludes capital leases. (5) Includes Transcos subsequent refinancing of its $100 million notes, due on January 15, 2008, under our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility. (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to the impact of fluctuations in the market price of natural gas and natural gas liquids, as well as other market factors, such as market volatility and commodity price correlations. We are exposed to these risks in connection with our owned energy related assets, our long term energy related contracts and our proprietary trading activities. We manage the risks associated with these market fluctuations using various derivatives and nonderivative energy related contracts. The fair value of derivative contracts is subject to changes in energy commodity market prices, the liquidity and volatility of the markets in which the contracts are transacted, and changes in interest rates. We measure the risk in our portfolios using a value at risk methodology to estimate the potential one day loss from adverse changes in the fair value of the portfolios. 74 Table of Contents Value at risk requires a number of key assumptions and is not necessarily representative of actual losses in fair value that could be incurred from the portfolios. Our value at risk model uses a Monte Carlo method to simulate hypothetical movements in future market prices and assumes that, as a result of changes in commodity prices, there is a 95 percent probability that the one day loss in fair value of the portfolios will not exceed the value at risk. The simulation method uses historical correlations and market forward prices and volatilities. In applying the value at risk methodology, we do not consider that the simulated hypothetical movements affect the positions or would cause any potential liquidity issues, nor do we consider that changing the portfolio in response to market conditions could affect market prices and could take longer than a one day holding period to execute. While a one day holding period has historically been the industry standard, a longer holding period could more accurately represent the true market risk given market liquidity and our own credit and liquidity constraints. We segregate our derivative contracts into trading and nontrading contracts, as defined in the following paragraphs. We calculate value at risk separately for these two categories. Derivative contracts designated as normal purchases or sales under SFAS 133 and nonderivative energy contracts have been excluded from our estimation of value at risk. Trading Our trading portfolio consists of derivative contracts entered into for purposes other than economically hedging our commodity price risk exposure. Our value at risk for contracts held for trading purposes was approximately $1 million at both December 31, 2007 and 2006. During the year ended December 31, 2007, our value at risk for these contracts ranged from a high of $2 million to a low of $1 million. Nontrading Our nontrading portfolio consists of derivative contracts that hedge or could potentially hedge the price risk exposure from the following activities: Segment Commodity Price Risk Exposure Exploration Production Natural gas sales Midstream Natural gas purchases NGL sales Gas Marketing Services Natural gas purchases and sales The value at risk for derivative contracts held for nontrading purposes was $24 million at December 31, 2007 and $12 million at December 31, 2006. During the year ended December 31, 2007, our value at risk for these contracts ranged from a high of $24 million to a low of $7 million. The increase in value at risk reflects the impact on our nontrading portfolio of the sale of substantially all of our power business in November 2007. Certain of the derivative contracts held for nontrading purposes are accounted for as cash flow hedges under SFAS 133. Though these contracts are included in our value at risk calculation, any change in the fair value of these hedge contracts would generally not be reflected in earnings until the associated hedged item affects earnings. Foreign Currency Risk We have international investments that could affect our financial results if the investments incur a permanent decline in value as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and or the economic conditions in foreign countries. International investments accounted for under the cost method totaled $24 million at December 31, 2007, and $42 million at December 31, 2006. These investments are primarily in nonpublicly traded companies for which it is not practicable to estimate fair value. We believe that we can realize the carrying value of these investments considering the status of the operations of the companies underlying these investments. If a 20 percent change 75 Table of Contents occurred in the value of the underlying currencies of these investments against the U.S. dollar, the fair value at December 31, 2007, could change by approximately $5 million assuming a direct correlation between the currency fluctuation and the value of the investments. Net assets of consolidated foreign operations, whose functional currency is the local currency, are located primarily in Canada and approximate 7 percent and 6 percent of our net assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. These foreign operations do not have significant transactions or financial instruments denominated in other currencies. However, these investments do have the potential to impact our financial position, due to fluctuations in these local currencies arising from the process of re measuring the local functional currency into the U.S. dollar. As an example, a 20 percent change in the respective functional currencies against the U.S. dollar could have changed stockholders equity by approximately $88 million at December 31, 2007. 76 Table of Contents 
 
