Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations General We are primarily a natural gas company, engaged in finding, producing, gathering, processing, and transporting natural gas. Our operations are located principally in the United States and are organized into the following reporting segments: Exploration Production, Gas Pipeline, Midstream Gas Liquids (Midstream), and Gas Marketing Services. (See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I Item 1 for further discussion of these segments.) Unless indicated otherwise, the following discussion and analysis of critical accounting estimates, results of operations, and financial condition and liquidity relates to our current continuing operations and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Part II Item 8 of this document. Overview of 2008 Our plan for 2008 was focused on continued disciplined growth. Objectives and highlights of this plan included: Objectives Highlights Continuing to improve both EVA and segment profit. 2008 segment profit of $2.9 billion, an increase of $749 million from 2007, contributed to improving our EVA. Continuing to increase natural gas production and reserves. We invested $2.5 billion in capital expenditures in Exploration Production, increasing average daily domestic production by approximately 20 percent over last year while adding 602 billion cubic feet equivalent in net reserves. Total year end 2008 proved domestic natural gas reserves are 4.3 trillion cubic feet equivalent, up 5 percent from year end 2007 reserves. Increasing the scale of our gathering and processing business in key growth basins. We invested $608 million in capital expenditures in Midstream, primarily Deepwater Gulf expansion projects and gas processing capacity in the western United States. Continue to invest in expansion projects on our interstate natural gas pipelines. We invested $306 million in capital expenditures in Gas Pipeline during 2008. Our 2008 income from continuing operations increased to $1.3 billion, as compared to $847 million in 2007. Our net cash provided by operating activities was almost $3.4 billion in 2008 compared to $2.2 billion in 2007. While these annual measures are favorable compared to the prior year, the overall trend of results was significantly different when considering the first three quarters of the year versus the last quarter. Through September 30, 2008, our Exploration Production business benefited from increased levels of production and higher net realized average natural gas prices, while our Midstream business realized higher margins from a favorable energy commodity price environment. However, energy commodity prices declined sharply during the last months of 2008, contributing to significantly lower fourth quarter operating results for these segments. The impact of the declining energy commodity prices on our consolidated results was partially mitigated by: Strong earnings from Gas Pipeline, which benefited from new rates enacted during 2007, and the nature of its contracts; Hedge positions at Exploration Production related to a significant portion of its production; Fee based revenues from certain gathering and processing services at Midstream. 38 Table of Contents See additional discussion in Results of Operations. Other Significant 2008 Events We completed our stock repurchase program by reaching the $1 billion limit authorized by our Board of Directors. (See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Exploration Production increased its positions by acquiring undeveloped leasehold acreage, producing properties and gathering facilities in the Piceance basin and undeveloped leasehold acreage and producing properties in the Fort Worth basin. See additional discussion in Results of Operations Segments, Exploration Production. We recognized pre tax income of $183 million in income from discontinued operations related to our former Alaska operations. (See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Exploration Production recognized pre tax income of $148 million related to the sale of a contractual right to a production payment on certain future international hydrocarbon production. See additional discussion in Results of Operations Segments, Exploration Production. Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. completed its initial public offering. See additional discussion in Results of Operations Segments, Gas Pipeline. In September 2008, Hurricanes Gustav and Ike impacted our operations, primarily at Midstream. As a result, we estimate that our segment profit for 2008 was decreased by approximately $60 million to $85 million due to downtime and charges for repairs and property insurance deductibles. See additional discussion in Results of Operations Segments, Gas Pipeline and Midstream Gas Liquids. The overall decline in equity markets in 2008 negatively impacted our employee benefit plan assets and will significantly increase our net periodic benefit expense in future periods. (See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Outlook for 2009 We expect the overall economic recession and related lower energy commodity price environment as well as the challenging financial markets to continue throughout the year. This is expected to result in sharply lower results of operations and cash flow from operations compared to 2008 levels and could also result in a further reduction in capital expenditures. The impacts could include the future nonperformance of counterparties or impairments of goodwill and long lived assets. Considering this environment, our plan for 2009 is built around the transition from significant growth to a focus on sustaining our current operations and reducing costs where appropriate. However, we believe we are well positioned to capture growth opportunities when commodity prices strengthen and as economic conditions improve. Although we expect a reduction in capital expenditures compared to the prior year, near term investment in our businesses will remain significant and focused on completing major projects, meeting legal, regulatory, and or contractual commitments, and maintaining a reduced level of natural gas production development. We will continue to operate with a focus on EVA and invest in our businesses in a way that meets customer needs and enhances our competitive position by: Continuing to invest our gathering and processing and interstate natural gas pipeline systems, primarily through the completion of projects currently underway; Continuing to invest in our natural gas production development, although at a lower level than in recent years; Retaining the flexibility to adjust our planned levels of capital and investment expenditures in response to changes in economic conditions, as well as seizing attractive opportunities. Potential risks and or obstacles that could impact the execution of our plan include: Lower than anticipated commodity prices; 39 Table of Contents Lower than expected levels of cash flow from operations; Availability of capital; Counterparty credit and performance risk; Decreased drilling success at Exploration Production; Decreased drilling success or abandonment of projects by third parties served by Midstream and Gas Pipeline; Additional general economic, financial markets, or industry downturn; Changes in the political and regulatory environments; Exposure associated with our efforts to resolve regulatory and litigation issues (see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). We continue to address these risks through utilization of commodity hedging strategies, focused efforts to resolve regulatory issues and litigation claims, disciplined investment strategies, and maintaining at least $1 billion in liquidity from cash and cash equivalents and unused revolving credit facilities. In addition, we utilize master netting agreements and collateral requirements with our counterparties. We have completed a review of potential changes to our company structure with a goal of enhancing shareholder value and determined to leave our company structure unchanged. Major factors in our decision were the sharp decline in energy commodity prices and a further deterioration in the macroeconomic environment since the initiation of the review in early November 2008. Our business mix and strong credit profile position us to weather the challenging economic and market conditions in 2009 and benefit as the economy recovers. Accounting Pronouncements Issued But Not Yet Adopted Accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet adopted may have an effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements in the future. See Recent Accounting Standards in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on recently issued accounting standards. Modernization of Oil Gas Reporting Requirements The SEC has revised its oil and gas reserves reporting requirements effective for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009, with early adoption prohibited. These changes include: Expanding the definition of oil and gas reserves and providing clarification of certain concepts and technologies used in the reserve estimation process. Allowing optional disclosure of probable and possible reserves and permitting optional disclosure of price sensitivity analysis. Modifying prices used to estimate reserves for SEC disclosure purposes to a 12 month average price instead of a single day, period end price. Requiring certain additional disclosures around proved undeveloped reserves, internal controls used to ensure objectivity of the estimation process, and qualifications of those preparing and or auditing the reserves. Historically, the reserves calculated based on the SECs reporting requirements were also used to calculate depletion on our producing properties, as required by SFAS 69, Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities (SFAS 69). However, the change in the SEC reporting requirements has not yet been adopted by the FASB. The SEC has announced its intent to discuss potential amendments to SFAS 69 with the FASB so that the reserves disclosed remain consistent with the reserves used to calculate depletion on our producing properties. Any such change would impact our future financial results. The SEC has indicated that it may delay the effective date of the revised reporting requirements if the FASB does not make conforming amendments by December 31, 2009. 40 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions. We have discussed the following accounting estimates and assumptions as well as related disclosures with our Audit Committee. We believe that the nature of these estimates and assumptions is material due to the subjectivity and judgment necessary, or the susceptibility of such matters to change, and the impact of these on our financial condition or results of operations. Impairments of Long Lived Assets and Goodwill We evaluate our long lived assets for impairment when we believe events or changes in circumstances indicate that we may not be able to recover the carrying value. Our computations utilize judgments and assumptions that may include the estimated fair value of the asset, undiscounted future cash flows, discounted future cash flows, and the current and future economic environment in which the asset is operated. Based on our assessment of the undiscounted and discounted cash flows on natural gas producing properties and associated unproved leasehold costs in the Arkoma basin, Exploration Production recorded an impairment charge of $129 million in December 2008. Significant judgments and assumptions in this impairment analysis included year end natural gas reserves quantities, estimates of future natural gas prices using a forward NYMEX curve adjusted for locational basis differentials, drilling plans, capital costs, and a pre tax discount rate of 15 percent. The recorded impairment was largely the result of lower forward pricing estimates at year end and lower reserve estimates resulting from lower year end prices. In addition to those long lived assets for which impairment charges were recorded (see Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), certain others were reviewed for which no impairment was required. These reviews included Exploration Productions properties in other basins and utilized inputs consistent with those described above for the Arkoma basin. Certain assets within our Midstream segment were also evaluated for impairment utilizing judgments and assumptions including future fees, margins and volumes. The use of alternate judgments and or assumptions could result in the recognition of different levels of impairment charges in the consolidated financial statements. We have goodwill of approximately $1 billion at Exploration Production primarily resulting from a 2001 acquisition. We assess goodwill for impairment annually as of the end of the year. For purposes of our assessment, the reporting unit is Exploration Productions domestic operations. As of December 31, 2008, the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, including goodwill, indicating no impairment of Exploration Productions goodwill. We estimated the fair value of the reporting unit on a stand alone basis primarily by valuing proved and unproved reserves. We used an income approach (discounted cash flows) for valuing reserves. The significant inputs into the valuation of proved reserves included reserve quantities, forward natural gas prices, anticipated drilling and operating costs, anticipated production curves and appropriate discount rates. Unproved reserves were valued using similar assumptions adjusted further for the uncertainty associated with these reserves. In estimating the inputs, management must make assumptions that require judgments and are subject to change in response to changing market conditions and other future events. Significant assumptions in valuing proved reserves included reserve quantities of more than 4.3 Tcfe, natural gas prices, adjusted for locational differences, averaging approximately $5.80 per Mcfe and a pre tax discount rate of 15 percent. We further reviewed the estimated fair value of the stand alone reporting unit by reconciling the sum of the fair values of all our businesses to our total market capitalization, including a control premium. In estimating the fair value of our businesses and a control premium, we considered a range of market comparables from historical sales transactions of energy companies. Market capitalization was based on our traded stock price for a reasonably short period of time before and after December 31, 2008. In evaluating these items in our reconciliation analysis, management considered a range of reasonable judgments. This reconciliation allowed management to consider market expectations in corroborating the reasonableness of the estimated stand alone fair value of the Exploration Production reporting unit. 41 Table of Contents We also perform interim assessments of goodwill if impairment triggering events or circumstances are present. Examples of impairment triggering events or circumstances include: The testing for recoverability of a significant long lived asset group within the reporting unit; Recent operating losses or negative cash flows at the reporting unit level; A decline in natural gas prices or reserve quantities; Not meeting internal forecasts, or downward adjustments to future forecasts; A decline in enterprise market capitalization below our consolidated stockholders equity; Industry trends. We cannot predict future market conditions and events that might adversely affect the estimated fair value of the Exploration Production reporting unit and possibly the reported value of goodwill. The estimated fair value of the reporting unit is significantly affected by natural gas prices, reserve quantities and market expectations for required rates of return. Further declines in natural gas prices would lower our estimates of fair value. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves that could affect our reserve quantities. Low prices for natural gas, regulatory limitations, or the lack of available capital for projects could adversely affect the development and production of additional reserves. Given the significant challenges affecting our businesses and the energy industry in 2009, these factors could impact us and require us to assess goodwill for possible impairment more frequently during 2009. Subsequent to December 31, 2008, as a result of overall market and energy commodity price declines, we have witnessed periodic reductions in our total market capitalization below our December 31, 2008, consolidated stockholders equity balance. If our total market capitalization is below our consolidated stockholders equity balance at a future reporting date, we consider this an indicator of potential impairment of goodwill under recent SEC communications and our accounting considerations. We utilize market capitalization in corroborating our assessment of the fair value of our Exploration Production reporting unit. Considering this, it is reasonably possible that we may be required to conduct an interim goodwill impairment evaluation, which could result in a material impairment of our goodwill. Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities We review our energy contracts to determine whether they are, or contain derivatives. We further assess the appropriate accounting method for any derivatives identified, which could include: Qualifying for and electing cash flow hedge accounting, which recognizes changes in the fair value of the derivative in other comprehensive income (to the extent the hedge is effective) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings; Qualifying for and electing accrual accounting under the normal purchases and normal sales exception, or; Applying mark to market accounting, which recognizes changes in the fair value of the derivative in earnings. If cash flow hedge accounting or accrual accounting is not applied, a derivative is subject to mark to market accounting. Determination of the accounting method involves significant judgments and assumptions, which are further described below. The determination of whether a derivative contract qualifies as a cash flow hedge includes an analysis of historical market price information to assess whether the derivative is expected to be highly effective in offsetting the cash flows attributed to the hedged risk. We also assess whether the hedged forecasted transaction is probable of occurring. This assessment requires us to exercise judgment and consider a wide variety of factors in addition to our intent, including internal and external forecasts, historical experience, changing market and business conditions, our financial and operational ability to carry out the forecasted transaction, the length of time until the forecasted transaction is projected to occur, and the quantity of the forecasted transaction. In addition, we compare actual cash flows to those that were expected from the underlying risk. If a hedged forecasted transaction is not probable of occurring, or if the derivative contract is not expected to be highly effective, the derivative does not qualify for hedge accounting. 42 Table of Contents For derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, we must periodically assess whether they continue to qualify for hedge accounting. We prospectively discontinue hedge accounting and recognize future changes in fair value directly in earnings if we no longer expect the hedge to be highly effective, or if we believe that the hedged forecasted transaction is no longer probable of occurring. If the forecasted transaction becomes probable of not occurring, we reclassify amounts previously recorded in other comprehensive income into earnings in addition to prospectively discontinuing hedge accounting. If the effectiveness of the derivative improves and is again expected to be highly effective in offsetting the cash flows attributed to the hedged risk, or if the forecasted transaction again becomes probable, we may prospectively re designate the derivative as a hedge of the underlying risk. Derivatives for which the normal purchases and normal sales exception has been elected are accounted for on an accrual basis. In determining whether a derivative is eligible for this exception, we assess whether the contract provides for the purchase or sale of a commodity that will be physically delivered in quantities expected to be used or sold over a reasonable period in the normal course of business. In making this assessment, we consider numerous factors, including the quantities provided under the contract in relation to our business needs, delivery locations per the contract in relation to our operating locations, duration of time between entering the contract and delivery, past trends and expected future demand, and our past practices and customs with regard to such contracts. Additionally, we assess whether it is probable that the contract will result in physical delivery of the commodity and not net financial settlement. Since our energy derivative contracts could be accounted for in three different ways, two of which are elective, our accounting method could be different from that used by another party for a similar transaction. Furthermore, the accounting method may influence the level of volatility in the financial statements associated with changes in the fair value of derivatives, as generally depicted below: Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Balance Sheet Accounting Method Drivers Impact Drivers Impact Accrual Accounting Realizations Less Volatility None No Impact Cash Flow Hedge Accounting Realizations Ineffectiveness Less Volatility Fair Value Changes More Volatility Mark to Market Accounting Fair Value Changes More Volatility Fair Value Changes More Volatility Our determination of the accounting method does not impact our cash flows related to derivatives. Additional discussion of the accounting for energy contracts at fair value is included in Notes 1 and 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Oil and Gas Producing Activities We use the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas producing activities. Estimated natural gas and oil reserves and forward market prices for oil and gas are a significant part of our financial calculations. Following are examples of how these estimates affect financial results: An increase (decrease) in estimated proved oil and gas reserves can reduce (increase) our unit of production depreciation, depletion and amortization rates. Changes in oil and gas reserves and forward market prices both impact projected future cash flows from our oil and gas properties. This, in turn, can impact our periodic impairment analyses, including that for goodwill. The process of estimating natural gas and oil reserves is very complex, requiring significant judgment in the evaluation of all available geological, geophysical, engineering, and economic data. After being estimated internally, 99 percent of our reserve estimates are either audited or prepared by independent experts. (See Part I Item 1 for further discussion.) The data may change substantially over time as a result of numerous factors, including additional development cost and activity, evolving production history, and a continual reassessment of the viability of production under changing economic conditions. As a result, material revisions to existing reserve estimates could occur from time to time. Such changes could trigger an impairment of our oil and gas producing properties and or goodwill and have an impact on our depletion expense prospectively. For example, a change of approximately 10 percent in our total oil and gas reserves could change our annual depreciation, depletion and 43 Table of Contents amortization expense between approximately $46 million and $56 million. The actual impact would depend on the specific basins impacted and whether the change resulted from proved developed, proved undeveloped or a combination of these reserve categories. Forward market prices, which are utilized in our impairment analyses, include estimates of prices for periods that extend beyond those with quoted market prices. This forward market price information is consistent with that generally used in evaluating our drilling decisions and acquisition plans. These market prices for future periods impact the production economics underlying oil and gas reserve estimates. The prices of natural gas and oil are volatile and change from period to period, thus impacting our estimates. Significant unfavorable changes in the forward price curve could result in an impairment of our oil and gas properties and or goodwill. Contingent Liabilities We record liabilities for estimated loss contingencies, including environmental matters, when we assess that a loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Revisions to contingent liabilities are generally reflected in income when new or different facts or information become known or circumstances change that affect the previous assumptions with respect to the likelihood or amount of loss. Liabilities for contingent losses are based upon our assumptions and estimates and upon advice of legal counsel, engineers, or other third parties regarding the probable outcomes of the matter. As new developments occur or more information becomes available, our assumptions and estimates of these liabilities may change. Changes in our assumptions and estimates or outcomes different from our current assumptions and estimates could materially affect future results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period. See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets and Tax Contingencies We have deferred tax assets resulting from certain investments and businesses that have a tax basis in excess of the book basis and from tax carry forwards generated in the current and prior years. We must evaluate whether we will ultimately realize these tax benefits and establish a valuation allowance for those that may not be realizable. This evaluation considers tax planning strategies, including assumptions about the availability and character of future taxable income. At December 31, 2008, we have $639 million of deferred tax assets for which a $15 million valuation allowance has been established. When assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider forecasts of future company performance, the estimated impact of potential asset dispositions and our ability and intent to execute tax planning strategies to utilize tax carryovers. The ultimate amount of deferred tax assets realized could be materially different from those recorded, as influenced by potential changes in jurisdictional income tax laws and the circumstances surrounding the actual realization of related tax assets. We regularly face challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. We evaluate the liability associated with our various filing positions by applying the two step process of recognition and measurement as required by FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (FIN 48). The ultimate disposition of these contingencies could have a significant impact on operating results and net cash flows. To the extent we were to prevail in matters for which accruals have been established or were required to pay amounts in excess of our accrued liability, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding FIN 48. Pension and Postretirement Obligations We have employee benefit plans that include pension and other postretirement benefits. Net periodic benefit expense and obligations are impacted by various estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include the expected long term rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, expected rate of compensation increase, health care cost trend rates, and employee demographics, including retirement age and mortality. These assumptions are reviewed annually and adjustments are made as needed. The assumptions utilized to compute expense and the benefit obligations are shown in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table 44 Table of Contents presents the estimated increase (decrease) in net periodic benefit expense and obligations resulting from a one percentage point change in the specified assumption. Benefit Expense Benefit Obligation One Percentage One Percentage One Percentage One Percentage Point Increase Point Decrease Point Increase Point Decrease (Millions) Pension benefits: Discount rate $ (13 ) $ 14 $ (133 ) $ 154 Expected long term rate of return on plan assets (7 ) 7 Rate of compensation increase 3 (3 ) 17 (17 ) Other postretirement benefits: Discount rate (2 ) 2 (32 ) 37 Expected long term rate of return on plan assets (1 ) 1 Assumed health care cost trend rate 8 (6 ) 53 (42 ) The expected long term rates of return on plan assets are determined by combining a review of historical returns realized within the portfolio, the investment strategy included in the plans Investment Policy Statement, and capital market projections for the asset classifications in which the portfolio is invested as well as the weightings of each asset classification. The credit crisis and subsequent economic downturn have negatively impacted the markets and our 2008 investment returns largely mirror market performance. While the market downturn has impacted short term investment performance, these expected rates of return are long term in nature and are not significantly impacted by short term market swings. Changes to our asset allocation would also impact these expected rates of return. Our expected long term rate of return on plan assets used for our pension plans was 7.75 percent for 2006 through 2008 and 8.5 percent for 2003 through 2005. Over the past ten years, our actual average return on plan assets for our pension plans has been approximately 2.1 percent. The 2008 return on plan assets for our pension plans was a loss of approximately 34.1 percent, which significantly impacted the ten year average rate of return on plan assets. The 2007 ten year average rate of return on plan assets for the pension plans was approximately 7.7 percent. As described in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the asset allocation is being changed during 2009 with a slightly higher percentage of plan assets being allocated to debt securities and cash and cash equivalents. Therefore, our 2009 expected long term rate of return on plan assets assumption is expected to slightly decrease. The discount rates are used to measure the benefit obligations of our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The objective of the discount rates is to determine the amount, if invested at the December 31 measurement date in a portfolio of high quality debt securities, that will provide the necessary cash flows when benefit payments are due. Increases in the discount rates decrease the obligation and, generally, decrease the related expense. The discount rates for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined separately based on an approach specific to our plans and their respective expected benefit cash flows as described in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our discount rate assumptions are impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions that affect interest rates on long term high quality debt securities as well as by the duration of our plans liabilities. The expected rate of compensation increase represents average long term salary increases. An increase in this rate causes the pension obligation and expense to increase. The assumed health care cost trend rates are based on our actual historical cost rates that are adjusted for expected changes in the health care industry. An increase in this rate causes the other postretirement benefit obligation and expense to increase. Fair Value Measurements On January 1, 2008, we adopted SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (SFAS No. 157), for our assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, primarily our energy derivatives. See Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosures regarding SFAS No. 157, including discussion of the fair value hierarchy levels and valuation methodologies. 45 Table of Contents Certain of our energy derivative assets and liabilities and other assets trade in markets with lower availability of pricing information requiring us to use unobservable inputs and are considered Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. At December 31, 2008, 22 percent of the total assets measured at fair value and 2 percent of the total liabilities measured at fair value are included in Level 3. For Level 2 transactions, we do not make significant adjustments to observable prices in measuring fair value as we do not generally trade in inactive markets. The determination of fair value also incorporates the time value of money and credit risk factors including the credit standing of the counterparties involved, the existence of master netting arrangements, the impact of credit enhancements (such as cash deposits and letters of credit) and our nonperformance risk on our liabilities. Currently, our approach is to apply a credit spread, based on the credit rating of the counterparty, against the net derivative asset with that counterparty. For net derivative liabilities we apply our own credit rating. We derive the credit spreads by using the corporate industrial credit curves for each rating category and building a curve based on certain points through time for each rating category. The spread comes from the discount factor of the individual corporate curves versus the discount factor of the LIBOR curve. At December 31, 2008, the credit reserve is $6 million on our net derivative assets and $15 million on our net derivative liabilities. Considering these factors and that we do not have significant risk from our net credit exposure to derivative counterparties, the impact of credit risk is not significant to the overall fair value of our derivatives portfolio. As of December 31, 2008, 77 percent of our derivatives portfolio expires in the next 12 months and 99 percent of our derivatives portfolio expires in the next 36 months. Our derivatives portfolio is largely comprised of exchange traded products or like products where price transparency has not historically been a concern. Due to the nature of the markets in which we transact and the short tenure of our derivatives portfolio, we do not believe it is necessary to make an adjustment for illiquidity. We regularly analyze the liquidity of the markets based on the prevalence of broker pricing and exchange pricing for products in our derivatives portfolio. The instruments included in Level 3 at December 31, 2008, predominantly consist of options that hedge future sales of production from our Exploration Production segment, are structured as costless collars and are financially settled. The options are valued using an industry standard Black Scholes option pricing model. Certain inputs into the model are generally observable, such as commodity prices and interest rates, whereas a significant input, implied volatility by location, is unobservable. The impact of volatility on changes in the overall fair value of the options structured as collars is mitigated by the offsetting nature of the put and call positions. The change in the overall fair value of instruments included in Level 3 primarily results from changes in commodity prices. The hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges where net unrealized gains and losses from changes in fair value are recorded, to the extent effective, in other comprehensive income (loss) and subsequently impact earnings when the underlying hedged production is sold. Exploration Production has an unsecured credit agreement through December 2013 with certain banks that, so long as certain conditions are met, serves to reduce our usage of cash and other credit facilities for margin requirements related to instruments included in the facility. 46 Table of Contents Results of Operations Consolidated Overview The following table and discussion is a summary of our consolidated results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 2008. The results of operations by segment are discussed in further detail following this consolidated overview discussion. Years Ended December 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change from from from from 2008 2007* 2007* 2007 2006* 2006* 2006 (Millions) (Millions) (Millions) Revenues $ 12,352 +1,866 +18 % $ 10,486 +1,187 +13 % $ 9,299 Costs and expenses: Costs and operating expenses 9,156 1,149 14 % 8,007 518 7 % 7,489 Selling, general and administrative expenses 504 33 7 % 471 82 21 % 389 Other (income) expense net (82 ) +64 NM (18 ) +52 NM 34 General corporate expenses 149 +12 +7 % 161 29 22 % 132 Securities litigation settlement and related costs +167 +100 % 167 Total costs and expenses 9,727 8,621 8,211 Operating income 2,625 1,865 1,088 Interest accrued net (594 ) +59 +9 % (653 ) (653 ) Investing income 191 66 26 % 257 +89 +53 % 168 Early debt retirement costs (1 ) +18 +95 % (19 ) +12 +39 % (31 ) Minority interest in income of consolidated subsidiaries (174 ) 84 93 % (90 ) 50 125 % (40 ) Other income net 11 100 % 11 15 58 % 26 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 2,047 1,371 558 Provision for income taxes 713 189 36 % 524 313 148 % 211 Income from continuing operations 1,334 847 347 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 84 59 41 % 143 +181 NM (38 ) Net income $ 1,418 $ 990 $ 309 * + Favorable change to net income; Unfavorable change to net income; NM A percentage calculation is not meaningful due to change in signs, a zero value denominator, or a percentage change greater than 200. 2008 vs. 2007 Our consolidated results in 2008 have improved significantly compared to 2007. However, these results were considerably influenced by favorable results in the first three quarters of the year, followed by a sharp decline in the fourth quarter due to a rapid decline in energy commodity prices. The increase in revenues is primarily due to higher production revenues at Exploration Production resulting from both higher net realized average prices and increased production volumes sold. Midstream also experienced higher olefin production revenues primarily due to higher average prices and volumes as well as increased natural gas liquid (NGL) production revenues resulting from higher average prices, partially offset by lower volumes. Additionally, Gas Marketing Services revenues increased primarily due to favorable price movements on derivative positions economically hedging the anticipated withdrawals of natural gas from storage and the absence of a loss recognized on a legacy derivative sales contract in 2007. 47 Table of Contents The increase in costs and operating expenses is primarily due to increased costs associated with our olefin and NGL production businesses at Midstream. Higher depreciation, depletion, and amortization and higher operating taxes at Exploration Production also contributed to the increase in expenses. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses (SGA) primarily includes the impact of higher staffing and compensation at our Exploration Production and Midstream segments in support of increased operational activities. Other (income) expense net within operating income in 2008 includes: Gain of $148 million on the sale of a contractual right to a production payment on certain future international hydrocarbon production at Exploration Production; Net gains of $49 million on foreign currency exchanges at Midstream; Income of $32 million related to the partial settlement of our Gulf Liquids litigation at Midstream; Gain of $10 million on the sale of certain south Texas assets at Gas Pipeline; Income of $17 million resulting from involuntary conversion gains at Midstream; Impairment charges totaling $143 million related to certain natural gas producing properties at Exploration Production; Expense of $23 million related to project development costs at Gas Pipeline. Other (income) expense net within operating income in 2007 includes: Income of $18 million associated with payments received for a terminated firm transportation agreement on Northwest Pipelines Grays Harbor lateral; Income of $17 million associated with a change in estimate related to a regulatory liability at Northwest Pipeline; Income of $12 million related to a favorable litigation outcome at Midstream; Income of $8 million due to the reversal of a planned major maintenance accrual at Midstream; Expense of $20 million related to an accrual for litigation contingencies at Gas Marketing Services; Expense of $10 million related to an impairment of the Carbonate Trend pipeline at Midstream. The increase in operating income reflects improved operating results at Exploration Production due to higher net realized average prices, natural gas production growth and a gain of $148 million on the sale of a contractual right to a production payment, partially offset by increased operating costs and $143 million of property impairments in 2008. The increase also reflects improved results at Gas Marketing Services primarily due to favorable price movements on derivative positions economically hedging the anticipated withdrawals of natural gas from storage and the absence of a loss recognized on a legacy derivative sales contract in 2007. Partially offsetting these increases is a decrease in operating income at Midstream primarily due to a sharp decline in energy commodity prices in the latter part of 2008. Interest accrued net decreased primarily due to increased capitalized interest resulting from an increased level of capital expenditures. The decrease was also a result of lower interest rates on debt issuances that occurred late in the fourth quarter of 2007 and in the first half of 2008 for which the proceeds were primarily used to retire existing debt bearing higher interest rates. While our overall debt balances have been relatively comparable, the net effect of these retirements and issuances has resulted in lower rates. The decrease in investing income is primarily due to a decrease in interest income largely resulting from lower average interest rates in 2008 compared to 2007. Minority interest in income of consolidated subsidiaries increased primarily reflecting the growth in the minority interest holdings of Williams Partners L.P. and Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. in late 2007 and early 2008, respectively. 48 Table of Contents Provision for income taxes increased primarily due to higher pre tax income partially offset by a reduction in our estimate of the effective deferred state tax rate. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a reconciliation of the effective tax rate compared to the federal statutory rate for both periods. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the items in income (loss) from discontinued operations. 2007 vs. 2006 The increase in revenues is due primarily to higher Midstream revenues associated with increased NGL and olefins marketing revenues and increased production of olefins and NGLs. Exploration Production experienced higher revenues also due to increases in production volumes and net realized average prices. Additionally, Gas Pipeline revenues increased primarily due to increased rates in effect since the first quarter of 2007. These increases are partially offset by a mark to market loss recognized at Gas Marketing Services on a legacy derivative natural gas sales contract that we expect to assign to another party in 2008 under an asset transfer agreement that we executed in December 2007. The increase in costs and operating expenses is due primarily to increased NGL and olefins marketing purchases and increased costs associated with our olefins production business at Midstream. Additionally, Exploration Production experienced higher depreciation, depletion and amortization and lease operating expenses due primarily to higher production volumes. The increase in SGA is primarily due to increased staffing in support of increased drilling and operational activity at Exploration Production, the absence of a $25 million gain in 2006 related to the sale of certain receivables at Gas Marketing Services, and a $9 million charge related to certain international receivables at Midstream. Other (income) expense net within operating income in 2006 includes: A $73 million accrual for a Gulf Liquids litigation contingency; Income of $9 million due to a settlement of an international contract dispute at Midstream. The increase in general corporate expenses is attributable to various factors, including higher employee related costs, increased levels of charitable contributions and information technology expenses. The higher employee related costs are primarily the result of higher stock compensation expense. (See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) The securities litigation settlement and related costs is primarily the result of our 2006 settlement related to class action securities litigation filed on behalf of purchasers of our securities between July 24, 2000 and July 22, 2002. (See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) The increase in operating income reflects record high NGL margins at Midstream, continued strong natural gas production growth at Exploration Production, the positive effect of new rates at Gas Pipeline, and the absence of 2006 litigation expenses associated with shareholder lawsuits and Gulf Liquids litigation. Interest accrued net includes a decrease of $19 million in interest expense associated with our Gulf Liquids litigation contingency, offset by changes in our debt portfolio, most significantly the issuance of new debt in December 2006 by Williams Partners L.P. The increase in investing income is due to: A $27 million increase in interest income primarily associated with larger cash and cash equivalent balances combined with slightly higher rates of return in 2007 compared to 2006; Increased equity earnings of $38 million due largely to increased earnings of our Gulfstream Natural Gas System, L.L.C. (Gulfstream), Discovery Producer Services LLC (Discovery) and Aux Sable Liquid Products, L.P. (Aux Sable) investments; 49 Table of Contents The absence of a $16 million impairment in 2006 of a Venezuelan cost based investment at Exploration Production; $14 million of gains from sales of cost based investments in 2007. These increases are partially offset by the absence of a $7 million gain on the sale of an international investment in 2006. Early debt retirement costs in 2007 includes $19 million of premiums and fees related to the December 2007 repurchase of senior unsecured notes. Early debt retirement costs in 2006 includes $27 million in premiums and fees related to the January 2006 debt conversion and $4 million of accelerated amortization of debt expenses related to the retirement of the debt secured by assets of Williams Production RMT Company. Minority interest in income of consolidated subsidiaries increased primarily due to the growth in the minority interest holdings of Williams Partners L.P. Provision for income taxes was significantly higher in 2007 due primarily to higher pre tax earnings. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a reconciliation of the effective tax rate compared to the federal statutory rate for both periods. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the items in income (loss) from discontinued operations. Results of Operations Segments We are currently organized into the following segments: Exploration Production, Gas Pipeline, Midstream, Gas Marketing Services, and Other. Other primarily consists of corporate operations. Our management currently evaluates performance based on segment profit (loss) from operations. (See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Exploration Production Overview of 2008 In 2008, segment revenues and segment profit for Exploration Production improved significantly compared to 2007. The 2008 results benefited from higher production levels coupled with higher natural gas prices through the first three quarters of the year. However, the results were negatively impacted by a significant decline in natural gas prices in the fourth quarter. The potential impact of sustained lower natural gas prices is discussed further in the following Outlook for 2009 section. Weve remained focused on continuing our domestic development drilling program in our growth basins. Accordingly, we: Benefited from increased domestic net realized average prices for the total year of 2008, which increased by approximately 28 percent compared to 2007. The domestic net realized average price for 2008 was $6.48 per thousand cubic feet of gas equivalent (Mcfe) compared to $5.08 per Mcfe in 2007. Net realized average prices include market prices, net of fuel and shrink and hedge positions, less gathering and transportation expenses. The domestic net realized average price for the fourth quarter 2008 was $4.43 per Mcfe reflecting the significant decline in natural gas prices. Increased average daily domestic production levels by approximately 20 percent compared to 2007. The average daily domestic production for 2008 was approximately 1,094 million cubic feet of gas equivalent (MMcfe) compared to 913 MMcfe in 2007. The increased production is primarily due to increased development within the Piceance, Powder River, and Fort Worth basins. Drilled 1,783 gross domestic development wells in 2008 with a success rate of approximately 99 percent. This contributed to total net additions of 602 billion cubic feet equivalent (Bcfe) in net reserves a replacement rate for our domestic production of 148 percent. Capital expenditures for domestic drilling, development, and acquisition activity in 2008 were approximately $2.5 billion compared to $1.7 billion in 50 Table of Contents 2007. Capital expenditures for 2008 include acquisitions in the Piceance and Fort Worth basins discussed in Significant events below. The benefits of higher net realized average prices and higher production volumes were partially offset by increased operating costs. The increase in operating costs was primarily due to the impact of increased production volumes and prices on operating taxes and higher well service and lease service costs. In addition, higher production volumes coupled with higher capitalized drilling costs increased depreciation, depletion, and amortization expense. Significant events In January 2008, we sold a contractual right to a production payment on certain future international hydrocarbon production for $148 million. As a result of the contract termination, we have no further interests associated with the crude oil concession, which is located in Peru. We had obtained these interests through our acquisition of Barrett Resources Corporation in 2001. In May 2008, we acquired certain undeveloped leasehold acreage, producing properties and gathering facilities in the Piceance basin for $285 million. A third party subsequently exercised its contractual option to purchase, on the same terms and conditions, an interest in a portion of the acquired assets for $71 million. In September 2008, we increased our position in the Fort Worth basin by acquiring certain undeveloped leasehold acreage and producing properties for $147 million. This acquisition is consistent with our growth strategy of leveraging our horizontal drilling expertise by acquiring and developing low risk properties. Based on our assessment of undiscounted and discounted future cash flows, which considered year end natural gas reserve quantities, we recorded an impairment of $129 million in December 2008 related to our properties in the Arkoma basin. In September 2008, we recorded a $14 million impairment due to unfavorable drilling results, also in the Arkoma basin. In December 2008, the Wyoming Supreme Court ruled against us on our appeal of the Wyoming State Board of Equalizations decision to uphold an assessment by the Wyoming Department of Audit related to severance and ad valorem taxes for the years 2000 through 2002. Related to this decision, we adjusted our estimated liability for the periods from 2000 through 2008, which resulted in a charge of $34 million. (See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Outlook for 2009 Considering the previously discussed significant decline in natural gas prices, we expect segment revenues and segment profit in 2009 to be significantly lower than in 2008. As a result, we plan to reduce capital expenditures and deploy fewer drilling rigs in 2009 compared to 2008 which will reduce the number of wells drilled. We have the following expectations and objectives for 2009: Continuing our development drilling program in the Piceance, Fort Worth, Powder River and San Juan basins through our planned capital expenditures projected between $950 million and $1.05 billion. Slight growth in our annual average daily domestic production level compared to 2008, with fourth quarter 2009 volumes likely to be less than the prior comparable period. Declines in the costs of services and materials associated with development activities as demand for these resources decline. However, in the first quarter of 2009, we estimate we will incur between $25 million and $35 million in expense from contract penalties associated with the reduction in drilling rigs deployed. Risks to achieving our expectations include unfavorable natural gas market price movements which are impacted by numerous factors, including weather conditions, domestic natural gas production levels and demand, and the downturn in the global economy. A further significant decline in natural gas prices would impact these expectations for 2009. In addition, changes in laws and regulations may impact our development drilling program. For example, the Colorado Oil Gas Conservation Commission has enacted new rules effective in April 2009 which will increase our costs of permitting and environmental compliance and potentially delay drilling permits. The new rules include 51 Table of Contents additional environmental and operational requirements before permit approvals are granted, tracking of certain chemicals brought on location, increased wildlife stipulations, new pit and waste management procedures and increased notifications and approvals from surface landowners. Commodity Price Risk Strategy To manage the commodity price risk and volatility of owning producing gas properties, we enter into derivative forward sales contracts that fix the sales price relating to a portion of our future production using NYMEX and basis fixed price contracts and collar agreements. For 2009, we have the following agreements and contracts for our daily domestic production, shown at weighted average volumes and basin level weighted average prices: Price ($/Mcf) Volume Floor Ceiling for (MMcf/d) Collars Collar agreements Rockies 150 $ 6.11 $9.04 Collar agreements San Juan 245 $ 6.58 $9.62 Collar agreements Mid Continent 95 $ 7.08 $9.73 NYMEX and basis fixed price 106 $3.67 The following is a summary of our agreements and contracts for daily production for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006: 2008 2007 2006 Price ($/Mcf) Price ($/Mcf) Price ($/Mcf) Volume Floor Ceiling for Volume Floor Ceiling for Volume Floor Ceiling for (MMcf/d) Collars (MMcf/d) Collars (MMcf/d) Collars Collars NYMEX 15 $6.50 $8.25 49 $6.50 $8.25 Collars NYMEX 15 $7.00 $9.00 Collars Rockies 170 $6.16 $9.14 50 $5.65 $7.45 50 $6.05 $7.90 Collars San Juan 202 $6.35 $8.96 130 $5.98 $9.63 Collars Mid Continent 63 $7.02 $9.72 76 $6.82 $10.77 NYMEX and basis fixed price 70 $3.97 172 $3.90 299 $3.82 Additionally, we utilize contracted pipeline capacity through Gas Marketing to move our production from the Rockies to other locations when pricing differentials are favorable to Rockies pricing. We also expect additional pipeline capacity to be put into service in 2009. Year Over Year Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 3,121 $ 2,021 $ 1,411 Segment profit $ 1,260 $ 756 $ 552 2008 vs. 2007 The increase in total segment revenues is primarily due to the following: $919 million, or 53 percent, increase in domestic production revenues reflecting $571 million associated with a 28 percent increase in net realized average prices and $348 million associated with a 20 percent increase in production volumes sold. The impact of hedge positions on increased net realized average prices includes the effect of fewer volumes hedged by fixed price contracts. The increase in production volumes reflects an increase in the number of producing wells primarily from the Piceance, Powder River, 52 Table of Contents and Fort Worth basins. Production revenues in 2008 and 2007 include approximately $85 million and $53 million, respectively, related to natural gas liquids and approximately $62 million and $40 million, respectively, related to condensate. $151 million increase in revenues for gas management activities related to gas sold on behalf of certain outside parties, which is substantially offset by a similar increase in segment costs and expenses. This increase is primarily due to increases in natural gas prices and volumes sold. $17 million favorable change related to hedge ineffectiveness due to $1 million in net unrealized gains from hedge ineffectiveness in 2008 compared to $16 million in net unrealized losses in 2007. Total segment costs and expenses increased $591 million, primarily due to the following: $202 million higher depreciation, depletion and amortization expense primarily due to higher production volumes and increased capitalized drilling costs. $149 million increase in expenses for gas management activities related to gas purchased on behalf of certain outside parties, which is offset by a similar increase in segment revenues. $143 million of property impairments in 2008 in the Arkoma basin as previously discussed. $118 million higher operating taxes primarily due to both higher average market prices and higher domestic production volumes sold and the $34 million charge related to the Wyoming severance and ad valorem tax issue previously discussed. $61 million higher lease operating expenses from the increased number of producing wells primarily within the Piceance, Powder River, and Fort Worth basins combined with increased prices for well and lease service expenses and higher facility expenses. $28 million higher SGA expenses primarily due to increased staffing in support of increased drilling and operational activity, including higher compensation. The higher SGA expenses also include an increase of $11 million in bad debt expense. $17 million higher gathering expenses due to higher domestic production volumes. $17 million of expense in 2008 related to the write off of certain exploratory drilling costs for our domestic and international operations. These increases are partially offset by the $148 million gain associated with the previously discussed sale of our Peru interests in 2008. The $504 million increase in segment profit is primarily due to the 28 percent increase in domestic net realized average prices and the 20 percent increase in domestic production volumes sold, partially offset by the increase in total segment costs and expenses. 2007 vs. 2006 The increase in total segment revenues is primarily due to the following: $487 million, or 39 percent, increase in domestic production revenues reflecting $264 million associated with a 21 percent increase in production volumes sold and $223 million associated with a 15 percent increase in net realized average prices. The increase in production volumes reflects an increase in the number of producing wells primarily from the Piceance and Powder River basins. The impact of hedge positions on increased net realized average prices includes both the expiration of a portion of fixed price hedges that are lower than the current market prices and higher than current market prices related to basin specific collars entered into during the period. Production revenues in 2007 include approximately $53 million related to natural gas liquids. In 2006, approximately $29 million of similar revenues were classified within other revenues. $144 million increase in revenues for gas management activities related to gas sold on behalf of certain outside parties which is offset by a similar increase in segment costs and expenses. 53 Table of Contents These increases were partially offset by a $30 million unfavorable change related to hedge ineffectiveness due to $16 million in net unrealized losses from hedge ineffectiveness in 2007 compared to $14 million in net unrealized gains in 2006. Total segment costs and expenses increased $409 million, primarily due to the following: $173 million higher depreciation, depletion and amortization expense primarily due to higher production volumes and increased capitalized drilling costs. $144 million increase in expenses for gas management activities related to gas purchased on behalf of certain outside parties which is offset by a similar increase in segment revenues. $46 million higher lease operating expenses from the increased number of producing wells primarily within the Piceance, Powder River, and Fort Worth basins in combination with higher well service expenses, facility expenses, equipment rentals, maintenance and repair services, and salt water disposal expenses. $36 million higher SGA expenses primarily due to increased staffing in support of increased drilling and operational activity, including higher compensation. In addition, we incurred higher insurance and information technology support costs related to the increased activity. First quarter 2007 also includes approximately $5 million of expenses associated with a correction of costs incorrectly capitalized in prior periods. The $204 million increase in segment profit is primarily due to the 21 percent increase in domestic production volumes sold as well as the 15 percent increase in net realized average prices, partially offset by the increase in segment costs and expenses. Gas Pipeline Overview Gas Pipelines strategy to create value focuses on maximizing the utilization of our pipeline capacity by providing high quality, low cost transportation of natural gas to large and growing markets. Gas Pipelines interstate transmission and storage activities are subject to regulation by the FERC and as such, our rates and charges for the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, and the extension, expansion or abandonment of jurisdictional facilities and accounting, among other things, are subject to regulation. The rates are established through the FERCs ratemaking process. Changes in commodity prices and volumes transported have little near term impact on revenues because the majority of cost of service is recovered through firm capacity reservation charges in transportation rates. As a result, the recent decline in energy commodity prices has not significantly impacted our results of operations. Significant events of 2008 include: Gas Pipeline master limited partnership In 2008, Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. completed its initial public offering. We own approximately 47.7 percent of the interests, including the interests of the general partner, which is wholly owned by us, and incentive distribution rights. We consolidate Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. within our Gas Pipeline segment due to our control through the general partner. (See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Gas Pipelines segment profit includes 100 percent of Williams Pipeline Partners L.P.s segment profit with the minority interests share presented below segment profit. Status of rate case During 2006, Transco filed a general rate case with the FERC designed to recover increases in costs. The new rates were effective, subject to refund, on March 1, 2007. On November 28, 2007, Transco filed a formal stipulation and agreement with the FERC resolving all substantive issues in their pending 2006 rate case. On March 7, 2008, the 54 Table of Contents FERC approved the agreement without modification. The agreement became effective June 1, 2008 and required refunds were issued in July 2008. Hurricane Ike In September 2008, Hurricane Ike impacted several onshore and offshore facilities on Transcos interstate natural gas pipeline system resulting in varying degrees of damage. However, Transco has continued to meet its customer commitments while running at lower than normal volumes. We expect the majority of associated costs will be recoverable through insurance, with the remainder recoverable through Transcos rates. We also expect the premiums for insuring our assets in the Gulf of Mexico region against weather events to significantly increase in 2009. Gulfstream Phase III expansion project In June 2007, our equity method investee, Gulfstream Natural Gas System, L.L.C. (Gulfstream), received FERC approval to extend its existing pipeline approximately 34 miles within Florida. Construction began in April 2008 and the expansion was placed into service in September 2008. The extension fully subscribed the remaining 345 Mdt/d of firm capacity on the existing pipeline. Gulfstreams estimated cost of this project is $118 million. Gulfstream Phase IV expansion project In September 2007, Gulfstream received FERC approval to construct 17.8 miles of 20 inch pipeline and to install a new compressor facility. Construction began in December 2007. The pipeline expansion was placed into service in the fourth quarter of 2008, and the compressor facility was placed into service in January 2009. The expansion increased capacity by 155 Mdt/d. Gulfstreams estimated cost of this project is $192 million. Sentinel expansion project In August 2008, we received FERC approval to construct an expansion in the northeast United States. The cost of the project is estimated to be up to $200 million. We placed Phase I into service in December 2008 increasing capacity by 40 Mdt/d. Phase II will provide an additional 102 Mdt/d and is expected to be placed into service by November 2009. Colorado Hub Connection project In September 2008, we filed an application with the FERC to construct a 27 mile pipeline to provide increased access to the Rockies natural gas supplies. The estimated cost of the project is $60 million with service targeted to commence in November 2009. We will combine the lateral capacity with 341 Mdt/d of existing mainline capacity from various receipt points for delivery to Ignacio, Colorado, including approximately 98 Mdt/d of capacity that was sold on a short term basis. Outlook for 2009 In addition to the Gulfstream Phase IV compressor facility, Phase II of the Sentinel expansion project, and the Colorado Hub Connection project previously discussed, we have several other proposed projects to meet customer demands. Subject to regulatory approvals, construction of some of these projects could begin as early as 2009. Year Over Year Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 1,634 $ 1,610 $ 1,348 Segment profit $ 689 $ 673 $ 467 55 Table of Contents 2008 vs. 2007 Segment revenues increased $24 million, or 1 percent, due primarily to a $52 million increase in transportation revenues resulting primarily from Transcos new rates, which were effective March 2007, and expansion projects that Transco placed into service in the fourth quarter of 2007. In addition, segment revenues increased $28 million due to transportation imbalance settlements (offset in costs and operating expenses). Partially offsetting these increases is the absence of $59 million associated with a 2007 sale of excess inventory gas (offset in costs and operating expenses). Costs and operating expenses decreased $11 million, or 1 percent, due primarily to the absence of $59 million associated with a 2007 sale of excess inventory gas (offset in segment revenues). The decrease is partially offset by an increase in costs of $28 million associated with transportation imbalance settlements (offset in segment revenues) and higher rental expense related to the Parachute lateral that was transferred to Midstream in December 2007. Other income net changed unfavorably by $31 million due primarily to the absence of $18 million of income recognized in 2007 associated with payments received for a terminated firm transportation agreement on Northwest Pipelines Grays Harbor lateral and the absence of $17 million of income recorded in 2007 for a change in estimate related to a regulatory liability at Northwest Pipeline. In addition, project development costs were $21 million higher in 2008. Partially offsetting these unfavorable changes is a $10 million gain in 2008 on the sale of certain south Texas assets by Transco and a $9 million gain in 2008 on the sale of excess inventory gas. The $16 million, or 2 percent, increase in segment profit is due primarily to the favorable changes in segment revenues and costs and operating expenses as well as slightly higher equity earnings from Gulfstream. These increases are partially offset by the unfavorable change in other income net. 2007 vs. 2006 Revenues increased $262 million, or 19 percent, due primarily to a $173 million increase in transportation revenues and a $25 million increase in storage revenues resulting primarily from new rates effective in the first quarter of 2007. In addition, revenues increased $59 million due to the sale of excess inventory gas. Costs and operating expenses increased $86 million, or 11 percent, due primarily to: An increase of $59 million associated with the sale of excess inventory gas; An increase in depreciation expense of $30 million due to property additions; An increase in personnel costs of $10 million due primarily to higher compensation as well as an increase in number of employees. Partially offsetting these increases is a decrease of $12 million in contract and outside service costs and a decrease of $7 million in materials and supplies expense. Other (income) expense net changed favorably by $15 million due primarily to $18 million of income associated with payments received for a terminated firm transportation agreement on Northwest Pipelines Grays Harbor lateral. Also included in the favorable change is $17 million of income recorded in the second quarter of 2007 for a change in estimate related to a regulatory liability at Northwest Pipeline, partially offset by $18 million of expense related to higher asset retirement obligations. Equity earnings increased $14 million due primarily to a $14 million increase in equity earnings from Gulfstream. Gulfstreams higher earnings were primarily due to a decrease in property taxes from a favorable litigation outcome as well as improved operating results. The $206 million, or 44 percent, increase in segment profit is due primarily to $262 million higher revenues, $14 million higher equity earnings and $15 million favorable other (income) expense net as previously discussed. Partially offsetting these increases are higher costs and operating expenses as previously discussed. 56 Table of Contents Midstream Gas Liquids Overview of 2008 Midstreams ongoing strategy is to safely and reliably operate large scale midstream infrastructure where our assets can be fully utilized and drive low per unit costs. We focus on consistently attracting new business by providing highly reliable service to our customers. Significant events during 2008 include the following: In the first three quarters of 2008, segment revenues and segment profit improved considerably compared to 2007. However, these results were followed by a steep decline in the fourth quarter due to a rapid decline in NGL and olefin prices. Compared to the prior year, our combined margins associated with the production and marketing of NGLs declined 70 percent in the fourth quarter and 15 percent for the year. Compared to the prior year, our combined margin from our olefin production and marketing business unit declined 81 percent in the fourth quarter and 18 percent for the year. The ongoing impact of sustained lower commodity prices is discussed further in the following Outlook for 2009 section. Volatile commodity prices Domestic Gathering and Processing Per Unit NGL Margin with Production and Sales Volumes by Quarter (excludes partially owned plants) During the first three quarters of 2008, strong per unit NGL margins driven by higher crude prices, which impact NGL prices, in relationship to natural gas prices contributed significantly to our realized margins. During the fourth quarter, NGL and natural gas prices, along with most other energy commodities, were significantly impacted by the weakening economy and experienced a sharp decline. Although average annual natural gas prices increased from 2007 to 2008, we continued to benefit from favorable gas price differentials in the Rocky Mountain area which contributed to realized per unit margins that were generally greater than that of the industry benchmarks for gas processed in the Henry Hub area and for liquids fractionated and sold at Mont Belvieu, Texas. Our average realized NGL per unit margin at our processing plants during 2008 was 61 cents per gallon (cpg), compared to 55 cpg in 2007. The increase in our NGL per unit margin is partially due to a change in the mix of NGL products sold. Due to third party NGL pipeline capacity restrictions during the third quarter of 2008 and to unfavorable ethane economics in the fourth quarter of 2008, we reduced our recoveries of ethane in those periods. 57 Table of Contents Because we typically realize lower per unit margins for ethane versus other NGLs, if we had produced the same mix of ethane and non ethane NGLs during 2008 as we generally have in prior years, the average per unit margin in 2008 would have been lower. NGL margins have exceeded our rolling five year average for the last seven quarters, in spite of strong NGL margins in 2007 and early 2008 that have significantly increased our rolling five year average from 26 cpg at the end of the 2007 to 37 cpg at the end of 2008. NGL margins are defined as NGL revenues less BTU replacement cost, plant fuel, transportation and fractionation. Per unit NGL margins are calculated based on sales of our own equity volumes at the processing plants. Our domestic gathering and processing plants recognize NGL margins on our NGL equity volumes based upon market based transfer prices to our NGL marketing business. The NGL marketing business transports and markets those equity volumes, and also markets NGLs on behalf of third party NGL producers, including some of our fee based processing customers, and the NGL volumes produced by Discovery Producer Services L.L.C. The NGL marketing business bears the risk of price changes in these NGL volumes while they are being transported to final sales delivery points, as well as the impact of lower of cost or market write downs on ending inventory balances. NGL marketing margins impacted by sharp decline in prices In late 2007, the NGL marketing business sold the majority of our equity volumes in the West region to a third party directly from the plants, which reduced our average inventory levels in the latter part of 2007. In early 2008, our NGL marketing business began to transport these volumes on a third party pipeline for sale at downstream markets, which increased our inventory levels. Inventory volumes also increased during 2008 due to the previously discussed hurricane related suspension of operations at a third party fractionation facility at Mont Belvieu, Texas. During 2006 and 2007, NGL price changes did not significantly affect in transit inventory values. However in 2008 due to significantly and rapidly declining NGL prices, primarily during the fourth quarter, combined with higher average inventory levels, our NGL marketing business experienced a marketing loss of $78 million. NGL sales volume constrained Primarily during the third quarter of 2008, we experienced restrictions on the volume of NGLs we could deliver to third party pipelines in our West region. These restrictions were caused by a lack of third party NGL pipeline transportation capacity which resulted in us reducing our recovery of ethane to accommodate these restrictions. In the fourth quarter of 2008, these restrictions were alleviated as we were able to deliver NGL volumes from our Wyoming plants into the new Overland Pass NGL pipeline. Due to unfavorable ethane economics during the fourth quarter of 2008, we elected to temporarily suspend ethane recoveries at certain plants which further reduced our NGL sales volumes. While reducing the recovery of ethane did benefit our overall average realized NGL per unit margins as previously described, it negatively impacted our NGL volumes and operating profit. Hurricanes Gustav and Ike As a result of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike in September 2008, not only did our Gulf Coast region facilities experience reduced volumes and damage, but our West region was also negatively impacted. We estimate that our segment profit for 2008 was decreased by approximately $60 million to $85 million due to downtime and charges for repairs and property insurance deductibles associated with Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. Other than the Cameron Meadows natural gas processing plant and the Discovery offshore gathering system, our major gathering and processing assets in the Gulf of Mexico returned to full operations by the end of the third quarter. The Cameron Meadows plant sustained significant damage from Hurricane Ike. Operations are suspended while we evaluate the timing and extent of the required repairs. The Discovery offshore system, which we operate and own a 60 percent equity interest in, also sustained hurricane damage and was not accepting offshore gas from producers while repairs were being made. The mainline of the Discovery offshore system was repaired and returned to service in January 2009. In the West region, we had to store NGL inventories due to the hurricane related suspension of operations at a third party fractionation facility at Mont Belvieu, Texas. A portion of this inventory was sold in the fourth quarter of 2008, and we expect to sell the remaining excess inventory in 2009. While we expect business interruption insurance to largely mitigate any losses associated with outages beyond 60 days, the timing to resolve these claims 58 Table of Contents is uncertain. We expect the cost of insuring our assets in the Gulf Coast region against weather events to significantly increase in 2009. Williams Partners L.P. We own approximately 23.6 percent of Williams Partners L.P., including the interests of the general partner, which is wholly owned by us, and incentive distribution rights. We consolidate Williams Partners L.P. within the Midstream segment due to our control through the general partner. (See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Midstreams segment profit includes 100 percent of Williams Partners L.P.s segment profit, with the minority interests share presented below segment profit. Outlook for 2009 The following factors could impact our business in 2009. Commodity price changes Margins in our NGL and olefins business are highly dependent upon continued demand within the global economy. NGL products are currently the preferred feedstock for ethylene and propylene olefin production, which are the building blocks of polyethylene or plastics. Forecasted domestic and global demand for polyethylene has weakened with the recent instability in the global economy. A continued slow down in domestic and global economies could further reduce the demand for the petrochemical products we produce in both Canada and the United States. As evidenced by recent events, NGL, crude and natural gas prices are highly volatile. NGL price changes have historically tracked with changes in the price of crude oil; however ethane prices have recently disassociated from crude prices. As NGL prices, especially ethane, decline, we expect lower per unit NGL margins in 2009 compared to 2008. Additionally, we anticipate periods when it is not economical to recover ethane, which will further reduce our segment profit. Although natural gas prices declined significantly during the fourth quarter of 2008, which reduced our costs associated with the production of NGLs, NGL margins were compressed as NGL prices fell more than natural gas prices. However, we expect continued favorable gas price differentials in the Rocky Mountain area to partially mitigate such per unit margin declines. In our olefin production business, we continue to maintain a cost advantage as our propylene and ethylene olefin production processes use NGL based feedstocks, which are less expensive than other olefin production processes that use alternative crude based feedstocks. However, margins have narrowed and we anticipate results from our olefins production business for the 2009 year to be below 2008 levels. Fee based revenues generally reduce our exposure to commodity price risks, but may also reduce our profitability compared to keep whole arrangements in high margin environments. Certain of our gas processing contracts contain provisions that allow customers to periodically elect processing services on either a fee basis or a keep whole or percent of liquids basis. If customers switch from keep whole to fee based processing, we expect a reduction in our NGL equity sales volumes in 2009 compared to 2008. Gathering and processing volumes Natural gas supplies supporting our gathering and processing volumes are dependent upon producer drilling activities. The current credit crisis and economic downturn, together with the low commodity price environment, are expected to reduce certain producer drilling activities. Although our customers in the West region are generally large producers and we anticipate they will continue with some level of drilling plans, certain reductions are expected in 2009. A significant decline in drilling activity would likely reduce our gathered volumes and volumes available for both fee based and keep whole processing. We expect higher fee revenues, depreciation and operating expenses in our Gulf Coast region as our Devils Tower infrastructure expansions serving the Blind Faith and Bass Lite prospects move into a full 59 Table of Contents year of operation in 2009. While we expect to continue to connect new supplies in the deepwater, this increase is expected to be partially offset by lower volumes in other Gulf Coast areas due to natural declines. Allocation of capital to expansion projects Given the current economic conditions and the volatility of the commodity price environment, we will continually prioritize and balance our capital expenditures against the demand for our services. Completed expansion projects In the eastern deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico, we completed construction of 37 mile extensions of both of our oil and gas pipelines from our Devils Tower spar to the Blind Faith prospect located in Mississippi Canyon. The pipelines have been commissioned and production began flowing in the fourth quarter of 2008. Ongoing commitments In the western deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico, we expect to spend $205 million on our major expansion projects in 2009, including the Perdido Norte project, which will include an expansion of our Markham gas processing facility and oil and gas lines that will expand the scale of our existing infrastructure. We expect this project to begin contributing to our segment profit at the end of 2009. In the West Region, we expect to spend $260 million on our major expansion projects in 2009, including the Willow Creek facility and additional capacity at our Echo Springs facility. Other factors for consideration The current economic and commodity price environment may cause financial difficulties for certain of our customers. Many of our marketing counterparties are in the petrochemicals industry, which has been under severe stress from the current economic downturn. Although we actively manage our credit exposure through certain collateral or payment terms and arrangements, continued economic downturn may result in significant credit or bad debt losses. We expect significant savings in certain NGL transportation costs in the West region due to the transition from our previous shipping arrangement to transportation on the Overland Pass pipeline. NGL volumes from our Wyoming plants began to flow into the Overland Pass pipeline in the fourth quarter of 2008, relieving pipeline capacity constraints and resulting in an expected increase in NGL volumes for 2009. Our Venezuelan operations are operated for the exclusive benefit of the Venezuelan state owned oil company, Petrleos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA). As energy commodity prices have sharply declined, PDVSA has failed to make regular payments to many service providers, including us. At December 31, 2008, we had a net receivable of $57 million from PDVSA, none of which was 60 days old or older at that date. This does not include $15 million owed to our 49 percent equity investee, Accroven, of which $5 million was 60 days old or older at December 31, 2008. We continue to monitor the situation and are actively seeking resolution with PDVSA. The collection of receivables from PDVSA has historically been slower and more time consuming than our other customers due to their policies and the political unrest in Venezuela. We expect, at this time, that the amounts will ultimately be paid. The failure of PDVSA to make payments to service providers, however, could jeopardize the Venezuelan oil industry and thereby unfavorably impact all service providers, including us. In addition, the economic situation resulting from lower commodity prices may further exacerbate political tension in Venezuela. The Venezuelan government continues its public criticism of U.S. economic and political policy, has implemented unilateral changes to existing energy related contracts, and has expropriated privately held assets within the energy and telecommunications sector. The continued threat of nationalization of certain energy related assets in Venezuela could have a material negative impact on our results of operations. We may not receive adequate compensation for our interest in these assets, or any compensation, if our assets in Venezuela are nationalized. We own 70 percent and 60 Table of Contents 66.67 percent controlling interests in the two subsidiaries that hold these assets. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the non recourse debt related to these assets. Year Over Year Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 5,642 $ 5,180 $ 4,159 Segment profit (loss) Domestic gathering processing 841 897 631 Venezuela 104 89 98 NGL Marketing, Olefins and Other 113 174 16 Indirect general and administrative expense (95 ) (88 ) (70 ) Total $ 963 $ 1,072 $ 675 In order to provide additional clarity, our managements discussion and analysis of operating results separately reflects the portion of general and administrative expense not allocated to an asset group as indirect general and administrative expense. These charges represent any overhead cost not directly attributable to one of the specific asset groups noted in this discussion. 2008 vs. 2007 The increase in segment revenues is largely due to: A $210 million increase in revenues in our olefins production business due primarily to higher average product prices and also to higher volumes sold associated with the increase of our ownership interest in the Geismar olefins facility effective July 2007. A $163 million increase in revenues associated with the production of NGLs due primarily to higher average NGL prices, partially offset by lower volumes. Lower volumes resulted from reduced ethane recoveries at the plants during the third and fourth quarters of 2008 compared to higher volumes during 2007 as we transitioned from shipping volumes through a pipeline for sale downstream to product sales at the plant. A $69 million increase in fee based revenues due primarily to the West region, Venezuela, the deepwater Gulf Coast region and at our Conway fractionation and storage facilities. Segment costs and expenses increased $569 million, or 14 percent, primarily as a result of: A $213 million increase in costs in our olefins production business due to higher feedstock prices and also to higher volumes produced associated with the increase of our ownership interest in the Geismar olefins facility effective July 2007. The increase also includes a $10 million higher charge to write down the value of olefin inventories. A $191 million increase in costs associated with the production of NGLs due primarily to higher average natural gas prices. A $126 million increase in NGL, olefin and crude marketing purchases due primarily to higher average NGL and crude prices, partially offset by lower volumes as discussed in the revenue section above. The increase also includes a $19 million higher charge in 2008 to write down the value of NGL and olefin inventories. A $107 million increase in operating costs including higher depreciation, repair costs and property insurance deductibles related to the hurricanes, gas transportation expenses in the eastern Gulf of Mexico, employee costs, and higher costs associated with the increase of our ownership interest in the Geismar olefins facility. 61 Table of Contents These increases are partially offset by: A $44 million favorable change related to foreign currency exchange gains primarily due to the revaluation of current assets held in U.S. dollars within our Canadian operations. $32 million of income related to the partial settlement of our Gulf Liquids litigation (see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). A $16 million favorable change due to higher involuntary conversion gains in 2008 related to insurance recoveries in excess of the carrying value of our Ignacio and Cameron Meadows plants. The decrease in Midstreams segment profit reflects the previously described changes in segment revenues and segment costs and expenses. A more detailed analysis of the segment profit of certain Midstream operations is presented as follows. Domestic gathering processing The decrease in domestic gathering processing segment profit includes a $49 million decrease in the West region and a $7 million decrease in the Gulf Coast region. The decrease in our West regions segment profit includes: A $45 million decrease in NGL margins due to a significant increase in costs associated with the production of NGLs reflecting higher natural gas prices and lower volumes sold. The decrease in volumes sold is due primarily to restricted transportation capacity, unfavorable ethane economics, an increase in inventory during 2008, hurricane related disruptions at a third party fractionation facility, and lower equity volumes as processing agreements change from keep whole to fee based. These decreases were partially offset by a full year of production from the fifth train at our Opal processing plant, which began production in the first quarter of 2007. A $35 million increase in operating costs driven by higher turbine and engine overhaul expenses, depreciation expense and employee costs. The absence of a $12 million favorable litigation outcome in 2007. A $24 million increase in fee revenues including new lease revenues from Gas Pipeline for the Parachute lateral transferred to Midstream in December 2007. A $12 million involuntary conversion gain related to our Ignacio plant. These insurance recoveries were used to rebuild the plant. The decrease in the Gulf Coast regions segment profit is primarily due to $39 million higher operating costs including higher depreciation, gas transportation expenses and hurricane repair and property insurance deductibles. These increases are partially offset by $18 million higher NGL margins and $8 million higher fee revenues due primarily to connecting new supplies in the deepwater. Venezuela Segment profit for our Venezuela assets increased due to higher fee revenues and lower bad debt expense, partially offset by lower currency exchange gains. NGL marketing, olefins and other The significant components of the decrease in segment profit of our other operations include: $123 million in lower margins related to the marketing of NGLs and olefins due primarily to the impact of a significant and rapid decline in NGL and olefin prices during the fourth quarter of 2008 on a higher volume of product inventory in transit. This also includes a $19 million charge to write down the value of NGL and olefin inventories. 62 Table of Contents $33 million higher operating costs including higher costs associated with the increase of our ownership interest in the Geismar olefins facility effective July 2007 and hurricane damage repair expense at the Geismar plant. These increases are partially offset by: A $56 million favorable change in foreign currency exchange gains related to the revaluation of current assets held in U.S. dollars within our Canadian operations. $32 million of income related to the partial settlement of our Gulf Liquids litigation (see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). 2007 vs. 2006 The increase in segment revenues is largely due to: A $528 million increase in revenues from the marketing of NGLs and olefins. A $303 million increase in revenues from our olefins production business. A $244 million increase in revenues associated with the production of NGLs. These increases are partially offset by a $35 million decrease in fee revenues. Segment costs and expenses increased $645 million, or 18 percent, primarily as a result of: A $491 million increase in NGL and olefin marketing purchases. A $257 million increase in costs from our olefins production business. A $37 million increase in operating expenses including higher depreciation, maintenance, gathering fuel expenses and operating taxes. $24 million higher general and administrative expenses. A $10 million loss on impairment of the Carbonate Trend pipeline and an $8 million loss on impairment of other assets. The absence of $11 million of net gains on the sales of assets in 2006. These increases are partially offset by: The absence of a 2006 charge of $73 million related to our Gulf Liquids litigation (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). A $95 million decrease in costs associated with the production of NGLs due primarily to lower natural gas prices. $12 million income in 2007 from a favorable litigation outcome. The increase in Midstreams segment profit reflects $339 million higher NGL margins and the absence of the previously mentioned $73 million Gulf Liquids litigation charge in 2006, as well as the other previously described changes in segment revenues and segment costs and expenses. A more detailed analysis of the segment profit of Midstreams various operations is presented as follows. Domestic gathering processing The increase in domestic gathering and processing segment profit includes a $308 million increase in the West region, partially offset by a $42 million decrease in the Gulf Coast region. 63 Table of Contents The increase in our West regions segment profit primarily results from higher NGL margins, higher processing fee based revenues and a favorable litigation settlement, partially offset by higher operating expenses and lower gathering fee revenues. The significant components of this increase include the following: NGL margins increased $326 million in 2007 compared to 2006. This increase was driven by an increase in average per unit NGL prices, a decrease in costs associated with the production of NGLs reflecting lower natural gas prices and higher volumes due primarily to new capacity on the fifth cryogenic train at our Opal plant. Processing fee revenues increased $12 million. Processing volumes are higher due to customers electing to take liquids and pay processing fees. $12 million income in 2007 from a favorable litigation outcome. Gathering fee revenues decreased $6 million due primarily to natural volume declines and the shutdown of the Ignacio plant in the fourth quarter of 2007 as a result of the fire. Operating expenses increased $21 million including $9 million in higher depreciation, $9 million in higher treating plant and gathering fuel due primarily to the expiration of a favorable gas purchase contract, $5 million related to gas imbalance revaluation losses in the current year compared to gains in the prior year, $5 million higher leased compression costs and $4 million higher costs related to the Jicarilla lease arrangement. These were partially offset by the absence of a $7 million accounts payable accrual adjustment in 2006 and $5 million in lower system product losses. The decrease in the Gulf Coast regions segment profit is primarily a result of lower volumes from our deepwater facilities, losses on impairments, and the absence of gains on assets in 2006, partially offset by higher NGL margins and higher other fee revenues. The significant components of this decrease include the following: Fee revenues from our deepwater assets decreased $40 million due primarily to declines in producers volumes. A $10 million loss on impairment of the Carbonate Trend pipeline and a $6 million loss on impairment of our other assets. The absence of $8 million in gains on the sales of certain gathering assets and a processing plant in 2006 and $5 million lower involuntary conversion gains resulting from insurance proceeds used to rebuild the Cameron Meadows plant. NGL margins increased $14 million driven by higher NGL prices, partially offset by lower NGL recoveries and an increase in costs associated with the production of NGLs. Other fee revenues increased $8 million driven by higher water removal fees. Venezuela Segment profit for our Venezuela assets decreased primarily due to the absence of a $9 million gain from the settlement of a contract dispute in 2006, $6 million lower fee revenues due primarily to the discontinuance in 2007 of revenue recognition related to labor escalation receivables, $7 million higher operating expenses, and $8 million higher bad debt expense related to labor escalation receivables, partially offset by $19 million of higher currency exchange gains and $1 million higher equity earnings. NGL marketing, olefins and other The significant components of the increase in segment profit of our other operations include the following: The absence of the previously mentioned $73 million Gulf Liquids litigation charge in 2006. $46 million in higher margins from our olefins production business due primarily to the increase in ownership of the Geismar olefins facility in July 2007 and higher prices of NGL products produced in our Canadian olefins operations. 64 Table of Contents $18 million in higher margins related to the marketing of olefins and $21 million in higher margins related to the marketing of NGLs due to more favorable changes in pricing while product was in transit during 2007 as compared to 2006. An $8 million reversal of a maintenance accrual (see below). $9 million higher Aux Sable equity earnings primarily due to favorable processing margins. $11 million higher Discovery equity earnings primarily due to higher NGL margins and volumes. These increases are partially offset by: $19 million in higher foreign exchange losses related to the revaluation of current assets held in U.S. dollars within our Canadian operations. The absence of a $4 million favorable transportation settlement in 2006. Effective January 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. AUG AIR 1, Accounting for Planned Major Maintenance Activities. As a result, we recognized as other income an $8 million reversal of an accrual for major maintenance on our Geismar ethane cracker. We did not apply the FSP retrospectively because the impact to our first quarter 2007 and estimated full year 2007 earnings, as well as the impact to prior periods, is not material. We have adopted the deferral method for accounting for these costs going forward. Indirect general and administrative expense The increase in indirect general and administrative expense is due primarily to higher technical support services and other charges for various administrative support functions and higher employee expenses. Gas Marketing Services Gas Marketing Services (Gas Marketing) primarily supports our natural gas businesses by providing marketing and risk management services, which include marketing and hedging the gas produced by Exploration Production, and procuring fuel and shrink gas and hedging natural gas liquids sales for Midstream. Gas Marketing also provides similar services to third parties, such as producers. In addition, Gas Marketing manages various natural gas related contracts such as transportation, storage, related hedges and proprietary trading positions, including certain legacy natural gas contracts and positions. Overview of 2008 Gas Marketings operating results for 2008 were primarily driven by higher realized margins on both storage and transportation contracts in addition to favorable price movements on derivative positions executed to hedge the anticipated withdrawals of natural gas from storage. These gains were partially offset by adjustments made to the carrying value of the natural gas inventories in storage reflecting a decline in the price of natural gas. Outlook for 2009 For 2009, Gas Marketing will focus on providing services that support our natural gas businesses. Gas Marketings earnings may continue to reflect mark to market volatility from commodity based derivatives that represent economic hedges but are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes or do not qualify for hedge accounting. 65 Table of Contents Year Over Year Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (Millions) Realized revenues $ 6,385 $ 4,948 $ 5,185 Net forward unrealized mark to market gains (losses) 27 (315 ) (136 ) Segment revenues $ 6,412 $ 4,633 $ 5,049 Segment profit (loss) $ 3 $ (337 ) $ (195 ) 2008 vs. 2007 Realized revenues represent (1) revenue from the sale of natural gas and (2) gains and losses from the net financial settlement of derivative contracts. Realized revenues increased $1,437 million primarily due to an increase in physical natural gas revenue as a result of a 26 percent increase in average prices on physical natural gas sales. This is slightly offset by a decrease related to net financial settlements of derivative contracts. Net forward unrealized mark to market gains (losses) primarily represent changes in the fair values of certain derivative contracts with a future settlement or delivery date that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes or do not qualify for hedge accounting. The favorable change of $342 million includes the effect of a $156 million loss realized in December 2007 related to a legacy derivative natural gas sales contract. We had previously accounted for this contract on an accrual basis under the normal purchases and normal sales exception of SFAS No. 133. We discontinued normal purchase and normal sales treatment because it was no longer probable that the contract would not be net settled. In addition, 2008 reflects favorable price movements on our derivative positions executed to hedge the anticipated withdrawal of natural gas from storage. Total segment costs and expenses increased $1,439 million, primarily due to a 33 percent increase in average prices on physical natural gas purchases. These increases were partially offset by the absence of a $20 million accrual for litigation contingencies in 2007. The $340 million favorable change in segment profit (loss) is primarily due to the favorable change in net forward unrealized mark to market gains (losses), which includes the absence of a 2007 loss recognized on a legacy derivative natural gas sales contract. The favorable change in segment profit (loss) also reflects the absence of a $20 million accrual for litigation contingencies in 2007, partially offset by a decline in accrual earnings. 2007 vs. 2006 Realized revenues decreased $237 million primarily due to a decrease in net financial settlements of derivative contracts. This is partially offset by an increase in physical natural gas revenue as a result of a 9 percent increase in natural gas sales volumes partially offset by a 6 percent decrease in average prices on physical natural gas sales. Net forward unrealized mark to market gains (losses) changed unfavorably as a result of a $156 million loss related to a legacy derivative natural gas sales contract that was previously accounted for on an accrual basis under the normal purchases and normal sales exception of SFAS No. 133. In addition, losses on gas purchase contracts caused by a decrease in forward natural gas prices were greater in 2007 than in 2006. Total segment costs and expenses decreased $274 million, primarily due to a decrease in costs and operating expenses reflecting a 7 percent decrease in average prices on physical natural gas purchases partially offset by a 4 percent increase in natural gas purchase volumes. The net decrease was also partially offset by: A $20 million accrual for litigation contingencies in 2007. The absence of a $25 million gain from the sale of certain receivables to a third party in 2006. The $142 million unfavorable change in segment profit (loss) is primarily due to the loss recognized on a legacy derivative contract previously treated as a normal purchase and normal sale, a $20 million accrual for 66 Table of Contents litigation contingencies and the absence of a $25 million gain from the sale of certain receivables, partially offset by an improvement in accrual earnings. Other Year Over Year Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 24 $ 26 $ 27 Segment loss $ (3 ) $ (1 ) $ (13 ) 2008 vs. 2007 The results of our Other segment are relatively comparable to the prior year. 2007 vs. 2006 The improvement in segment loss for 2007 is primarily driven by $5 million of net gains on the sale of land. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Liquidity Overview In 2008, we continued to focus upon growth through disciplined investments in our natural gas businesses. Examples of this growth included: Continued investment in Exploration Productions development drilling programs. Expansion of Gas Pipelines interstate natural gas pipeline system to meet the demand of growth markets. Continued investment in Midstreams Deepwater Gulf expansion projects and gas processing capacity in the western United States. These investments were primarily funded through our cash flow from operations, which totaled nearly $3.4 billion for 2008. During the latter part of 2008, global credit markets experienced significant instability, our market capitalization declined as markets witnessed significant reductions in value and energy commodity prices experienced significant and rapid declines. While we have periodically provided for incremental funding needs through the issuance of debt and or the sale of master limited partnership units, these sources of funding were considered economically unfavorable at December 31, 2008. In consideration of our liquidity under these conditions, we note the following: We have sharply reduced our forecasted levels of capital expenditures and have the flexibility to make further reductions if needed. As of December 31, 2008, we have approximately $1.4 billion of cash and cash equivalents and approximately $2.5 billion of available credit capacity under our credit facilities, of which $400 million expires in April 2009 and $100 million expires in May 2009. Our primary $1.5 billion credit facility does not expire until May 2012. Additionally, Exploration Production has an unsecured credit agreement that serves to reduce our margin requirements related to our hedging activities. See additional discussion in the following Available Liquidity section. We have no significant debt maturities until 2011. Our credit exposure to derivative counterparties is partially mitigated by master netting agreements and collateral support. (See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) 67 Table of Contents Outlook For 2009, we expect operating results and cash flows to be sharply reduced from 2008 levels by the continued impact of lower energy commodity prices. This impact is somewhat mitigated by certain of our cash flow streams that are substantially insulated from sustained lower commodity prices as follows: Firm demand and capacity reservation transportation revenues under long term contracts from Gas Pipeline; Hedged natural gas sales at Exploration Production related to a significant portion of its production; Fee based revenues from certain gathering and processing services at Midstream. In addition, we expect certain costs for services and materials to decline in 2009 as demand for these resources declines. Although the financial markets and energy commodity environment are expected to be depressed for at least the near term, we believe we have, or have access to, the financial resources and liquidity necessary to meet our requirements for working capital, capital and investment expenditures, and debt payments while maintaining a sufficient level of liquidity. In particular, we note the following assumptions for the coming year: We expect to maintain liquidity of at least $1 billion from cash and cash equivalents and unused revolving credit facilities. We expect to fund capital and investment expenditures, debt payments, dividends, and working capital requirements primarily through cash flow from operations, cash and cash equivalents on hand, and utilization of our revolving credit facilities as needed. However, we may be opportunistic in accessing the capital markets to build additional liquidity. We estimate our cash flow from operations to be between $1.9 billion and $2.2 billion in 2009. We estimate capital and investment expenditures will total $2,150 million to $2,450 million in 2009. Of this total, approximately two thirds is considered nondiscretionary to meet legal, regulatory, and or contractual requirements or to preserve the value of existing assets. Included within the total estimated expenditures for 2009 is $250 million to $300 million for compliance and maintenance related projects at Gas Pipeline, including Clean Air Act compliance. Potential risks associated with our planned levels of liquidity and the planned capital and investment expenditures discussed above include: Lower than expected levels of cash flow from operations. Sustained reductions in energy commodity prices from year end 2008 levels. Exposure associated with our efforts to resolve regulatory and litigation issues (see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Liquidity Based on our forecasted levels of cash flow from operations and other sources of liquidity, we expect to have sufficient liquidity to manage our businesses in 2009. As noted below, certain of our unsecured revolving and letter of credit facilities are scheduled to expire in 2009 and 2010. These facilities were originated primarily in support of our former power business. Our internal and external sources of liquidity include cash generated from our operations, cash and cash equivalents on hand, and our credit facilities. Additional sources of liquidity, if needed, include bank financings, proceeds from the issuance of long term debt and equity securities, and proceeds from asset sales. While most of our sources are available to us at the parent level, others may be available to certain of our subsidiaries, including equity and debt issuances from Williams Partners L.P. and Williams Pipeline Partners L.P., our master limited partnerships. Our ability to raise funds in the capital markets will be impacted by our financial condition, interest rates, market conditions, and industry conditions. 68 Table of Contents In response to the challenges encountered by many financial institutions, the U.S. Government has provided substantial support to financial institutions, some of which are providers under our credit facilities. We continue to closely monitor the credit status of all providers under our credit facilities. Available Liquidity Year Ended Credit Facilities December 31, 2008 Expiration (Millions) Cash and cash equivalents(1) $ 1,439 Available capacity under our unsecured revolving and letter of credit facilities totaling $1.2 billion: $400 million facilities April 2009 400 $100 million facilities May 2009 100 $700 million facilities September 2010 480 Available capacity under our $1.5 billion unsecured revolving and letter of credit facility(2) May 2012 1,359 Available capacity under Williams Partners L.P.s $450 million senior unsecured credit facility(3) December 2012 188 $ 3,966 (1) Cash and cash equivalents includes $30 million of funds received from third parties as collateral. The obligation for these amounts is reported as accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Also included is $609 million of cash and cash equivalents that is being utilized by certain subsidiary and international operations. The remainder of our cash and cash equivalents is primarily held in government backed instruments. (2) Northwest Pipeline and Transco each have access to $400 million under this facility to the extent not utilized by us. We expect that the ability of both Northwest Pipeline and Transco to borrow under this facility is reduced by approximately $19 million each due to the bankruptcy of a participating bank. We also expect that our consolidated ability to borrow under this facility is reduced by a total of $70 million, including the reductions related to Northwest Pipeline and Transco. The available liquidity in the table above reflects this $70 million reduction. (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) The committed amounts of other participating banks under this agreement remain in effect and are not impacted by this reduction. Our primary credit facility contains financial covenants including the requirement that we not exceed stated debt to capitalization ratios. At December 31, 2008, we are significantly below the maximum allowed ratios (see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). (3) This facility is only available to Williams Partners L.P. We expect that Williams Partners L.P.s ability to borrow under this facility is reduced by $12 million due to the bankruptcy of a participating bank. The available liquidity in the table above reflects this $12 million reduction. (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) The committed amounts of other participating banks under this agreement remain in effect and are not impacted by this reduction. This credit facility contains financial covenants related to Williams Partners L.P.s EBITDA to interest expense ratio and indebtedness to EBITDA ratio (all as defined in the credit agreement). At December 31, 2008, they are in compliance with these covenants. However, since the ratios are calculated on a rolling four quarter basis, the ratios at December 31, 2008, do not reflect the full year impact of lower commodity prices in the fourth quarter which have continued into 2009. Williams Partners L.P. has a shelf registration statement, which expires in October 2009, available for the issuance of $1.17 billion aggregate principal amount of debt and limited partnership unit securities. 69 Table of Contents At the parent company level, we have a shelf registration statement, which as a well known seasoned issuer, allows us to issue an unlimited amount of registered debt and equity securities. This shelf registration statement expires in May 2009. Exploration Production has an unsecured credit agreement with certain banks that, so long as certain conditions are met, serves to reduce our use of cash and other credit facilities for margin requirements related to our hedging activities as well as lower transaction fees. The agreement extends through December 2013. (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Credit ratings Standard Poors rates our senior unsecured debt at BB+ and our corporate credit at BBB with a stable ratings outlook. With respect to Standard Poors, a rating of BBB or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below BBB indicates that the security has significant speculative characteristics. A BB rating indicates that Standard Poors believes the issuer has the capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation, but adverse business conditions could lead to insufficient ability to meet financial commitments. Standard Poors may modify its ratings with a + or a sign to show the obligors relative standing within a major rating category. Moodys Investors Service rates our senior unsecured debt at Baa3. On November 6, 2008, Moodys revised our ratings outlook to negative from stable. On February 23, 2009, Moodys revised our ratings outlook to stable from negative. With respect to Moodys, a rating of Baa or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below Baa is considered to have speculative elements. The 1, 2 and 3 modifiers show the relative standing within a major category. A 1 indicates that an obligation ranks in the higher end of the broad rating category, 2 indicates a mid range ranking, and 3 ranking at the lower end of the category. Fitch Ratings rates our senior unsecured debt at BBB. On November 6, 2008, Fitch revised our ratings outlook to evolving from stable. On February 24, 2009, Fitch revised our ratings outlook to stable from evolving. With respect to Fitch, a rating of BBB or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below BBB is considered speculative grade. Fitch may add a + or a sign to show the obligors relative standing within a major rating category. Credit rating agencies perform independent analyses when assigning credit ratings. No assurance can be given that the credit rating agencies will continue to assign us investment grade ratings even if we meet or exceed their current criteria for investment grade ratios. A downgrade of our credit rating might increase our future cost of borrowing and would require us to post additional collateral with third parties, negatively impacting our available liquidity. As of December 31, 2008, we estimate that a downgrade to a rating below investment grade would have required us to post up to $400 million in additional collateral with third parties. Sources (Uses) of Cash Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (Millions) Net cash provided (used) by: Operating activities $ 3,355 $ 2,237 $ 1,890 Financing activities (432 ) (511 ) 1,103 Investing activities (3,183 ) (2,296 ) (2,321 ) Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (260 ) $ (570 ) $ 672 Operating Activities Our net cash provided by operating activities in 2008 increased from 2007 due primarily to the increase in our earnings. Significant transactions impacting our net cash provided by operating activities in 2008 include: $140 million of cash received related to a favorable resolution of matters involving pipeline transportation rates associated with our former Alaska operations (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). 70 Table of Contents $144 million of required refunds paid by Transco related to a general rate case with the FERC (see Results of Operations Segments, Gas Pipeline). Our net cash provided by operating activities in 2007 increased from 2006 due primarily to the increase in our operating results and the absence of a $145 million securities litigation settlement payment in 2006. These increases are partially offset by increased income tax payments in 2007 and other changes in working capital. Financing Activities 2008 We received $362 million from the completion of the Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. initial public offering (see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). We paid $474 million for the repurchase of our common stock (see Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Gas Pipeline received $75 million net from debt transactions (see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). We paid $250 million of quarterly dividends on common stock for the year ended December 31, 2008. 2007 We paid $526 million for the repurchase of our common stock. We repurchased $22 million of our 8.125 percent senior unsecured notes due March 2012 and $213 million of our 7.125 percent senior unsecured notes due September 2011. Early retirement premiums paid were approximately $19 million. Northwest Pipeline issued $185 million of 5.95 percent senior unsecured notes due 2017 and retired $175 million of 8.125 percent senior unsecured notes due 2010. Early retirement premiums paid were approximately $7 million. Williams Partners L.P. acquired certain of our membership interests in Wamsutter LLC, the limited liability company that owns the Wamsutter system, from us for $750 million. Williams Partners L.P. completed the transaction after successfully closing a public equity offering of 9.25 million common units that yielded net proceeds of approximately $335 million. The partnership financed the remainder of the purchase price primarily through utilizing $250 million term loan borrowings under their $450 million five year senior unsecured credit facility and issuing approximately $157 million of common units to us. We paid $233 million of quarterly dividends on common stock for the year ended December 31, 2007. 2006 Transco issued $200 million aggregate principal amount of 6.4 percent senior unsecured notes due 2016. Northwest Pipeline issued $175 million aggregate principal amount of 7 percent senior unsecured notes due 2016. Williams Partners L.P. acquired our interest in Williams Four Corners LLC for $1.6 billion. The acquisition was completed after Williams Partners L.P. successfully closed a $150 million private debt offering of 7.5 percent senior unsecured notes due 2011, a $600 million private debt offering of 7.25 percent senior unsecured notes due 2017, $350 million of common and Class B units, and equity offerings of $519 million in net proceeds. We paid $489 million to retire a secured floating rate term loan due in 2008. We paid $26 million in premiums related to the conversion of $220 million of 5.5 percent junior subordinated convertible debentures into common stock. 71 Table of Contents We paid $207 million of quarterly dividends on common stock for the year ended December 31, 2006. Investing Activities 2008 Our net investment in property, plant and equipment totaled $3.3 billion and was primarily related to Exploration Productions drilling activity. This total includes Exploration Productions acquisitions of certain interests in the Piceance and Fort Worth basins (see Results of Operations Segments, Exploration Production). $148 million of cash received from Exploration Productions sale of a contractual right to a production payment (see Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). We contributed $111 million to our investments, including $90 million related to our Gulfstream equity investment. 2007 Our net investment in property, plant and equipment totaled $2.9 billion and was primarily related to Exploration Productions drilling activity, mostly in the Piceance basin. We received $496 million of gross proceeds from the sale of substantially all of our power business. We purchased $304 million and received $353 million from the sale of auction rate securities. These were utilized as a component of our overall cash management program. 2006 Our net investment in property, plant and equipment totaled $2.4 billion and was primarily related to Exploration Productions drilling activity, mostly in the Piceance basin, and Northwest Pipelines capacity replacement project. We purchased $386 million and received $414 million from the sale of auction rate securities. Off balance sheet financing arrangements and guarantees of debt or other commitments We have various other guarantees and commitments which are disclosed in Notes 3, 9, 10, 11, 15, and 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We do not believe these guarantees or the possible fulfillment of them will prevent us from meeting our liquidity needs. 72 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The table below summarizes the maturity dates of our contractual obligations, including obligations related to discontinued operations. 2010 2012 2009 2011 2013 Thereafter Total (Millions) Long term debt, including current portion: Principal(l) $ 53 $ 994 $ 1,248 $ 5,611 $ 7,906 Interest 588 1,151 894 4,452 7,085 Capital leases 3 2 5 Operating leases 96 80 42 44 262 Purchase obligations(2) 1,299 1,342 1,209 2,405 6,255 Other long term liabilities, including current portion: Physical and financial derivatives(3)(4) 575 606 296 196 1,673 Other(5)(6) 1 1 Total $ 2,614 $ 4,176 $ 3,689 $ 12,708 $ 23,187 (1) The debt instruments in this table are classified by stated maturity date. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of certain non recourse debt of two of our Venezuelan subsidiaries that is in technical default and classified as current on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. (2) Includes $3.7 billion of natural gas purchase obligations at market prices at our Exploration Production segment. The purchased natural gas can be sold at market prices. (3) The obligations for physical and financial derivatives are based on market information as of December 31, 2008 and assumes contracts remain outstanding for their full contractual duration. Because market information changes daily and has the potential to be volatile, significant changes to the values in this category may occur. (4) Expected offsetting cash inflows of $3.6 billion at December 31, 2008, resulting from product sales or net positive settlements, are not reflected in these amounts. In addition, product sales may require additional purchase obligations to fulfill sales obligations that are not reflected in these amounts. (5) Does not include estimated contributions to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. We made contributions to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans of $75 million in 2008 and $56 million in 2007. In 2009, we expect to contribute approximately $77 million to these plans (see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). During 2008, we contributed $60 million to our tax qualified pension plans which was greater than the minimum funding requirements. Although the 2008 economic downturn resulted in a significant decrease in the funded status of our tax qualified pension plans, we expect to contribute approximately $60 million to these pension plans again in 2009, which is expected to be greater than the minimum funding requirements. Estimated future minimum funding requirements may vary significantly from historical requirements if investment returns do not return to expected levels. Future minimum funding requirements may also be impacted if actual results differ significantly from estimated results for assumptions such as interest rates, retirement rates, mortality and other significant assumptions or by changes to current legislation and regulations. (6) As of December 31, 2008, we have accrued approximately $79 million for unrecognized tax benefits. We cannot make reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of the future payments of these liabilities. Therefore, these liabilities have been excluded from the table above. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our contingent tax liability reserves. Effects of Inflation Our operations have benefited from relatively low inflation rates. Approximately 38 percent of our gross property, plant and equipment is at Gas Pipeline. Gas Pipeline is subject to regulation, which limits recovery to historical cost. While amounts in excess of historical cost are not recoverable under current FERC practices, we anticipate being allowed to recover and earn a return based on increased actual cost incurred to replace existing 73 Table of Contents assets. Cost based regulation, along with competition and other market factors, may limit our ability to recover such increased costs. For the other operating units, operating costs are influenced to a greater extent by both competition for specialized services and specific price changes in oil and natural gas and related commodities than by changes in general inflation. Crude, natural gas, and natural gas liquids prices are particularly sensitive to the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) production levels and or the market perceptions concerning the supply and demand balance in the near future, as well as general economic conditions. However, our exposure to these price changes is reduced through the use of hedging instruments and the fee based nature of certain of our services. Environmental We are a participant in certain environmental activities in various stages including assessment studies, cleanup operations and or remedial processes at certain sites, some of which we currently do not own (see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). We are monitoring these sites in a coordinated effort with other potentially responsible parties, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or other governmental authorities. We are jointly and severally liable along with unrelated third parties in some of these activities and solely responsible in others. Current estimates of the most likely costs of such activities are approximately $43 million, all of which are recorded as liabilities on our balance sheet at December 31, 2008. We will seek recovery of approximately $14 million of the accrued costs through future natural gas transmission rates. The remainder of these costs will be funded from operations. During 2008, we paid approximately $10 million for cleanup and or remediation and monitoring activities. We expect to pay approximately $11 million in 2009 for these activities. Estimates of the most likely costs of cleanup are generally based on completed assessment studies, preliminary results of studies or our experience with other similar cleanup operations. At December 31, 2008, certain assessment studies were still in process for which the ultimate outcome may yield significantly different estimates of most likely costs. Therefore, the actual costs incurred will depend on the final amount, type and extent of contamination discovered at these sites, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA or other governmental authorities, and other factors. We are subject to the federal Clean Air Act and to the federal Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, which require the EPA to issue new regulations. We are also subject to regulation at the state and local level. In September 1998, the EPA promulgated rules designed to mitigate the migration of ground level ozone in certain states. In March 2004 and June 2004, the EPA promulgated additional regulation regarding hazardous air pollutants, which may result in additional controls. Capital expenditures necessary to install emission control devices on our Transco gas pipeline system to comply with rules were approximately $2 million in 2008 and are estimated to be between $5 million and $10 million through 2012. The actual costs incurred will depend on the final implementation plans developed by each state to comply with these regulations. We consider these costs on our Transco system associated with compliance with these environmental laws and regulations to be prudent costs incurred in the ordinary course of business and, therefore, recoverable through its rates. 74 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk Our current interest rate risk exposure is related primarily to our debt portfolio. The majority of our debt portfolio is comprised of fixed rate debt in order to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in interest rates. The maturity of our long term debt portfolio is partially influenced by the expected lives of our operating assets. The tables below provide information about our interest rate risk sensitive instruments as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. Long term debt in the tables represents principal cash flows, net of (discount) premium, and weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. The fair value of our publicly traded long term debt is valued using indicative year end traded bond market prices. Private debt is valued based on market rates and the prices of similar securities with similar terms and credit ratings. Fair Value December 31, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter(1) Total 2008 (Dollars in millions) Long term debt, including current portion(4)(6): Fixed rate $ 41 $ 27 $ 948 $ 971 $ 17 $ 5,566 $ 7,570 $ 6,011 Interest rate 7.6 % 7.6 % 7.6 % 7.6 % 7.5 % 7.9 % Variable rate $ 12 $ 12 $ 7 $ 255 $ 5 $ 13 $ 304 $ 274 Interest rate(2) Fair Value December 31, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Thereafter(1) Total 2007 (Dollars in millions) Long term debt, including current portion(4): Fixed rate $ 53 $ 41 $ 27 $ 948 $ 971 $ 5,111 $ 7,151 $ 7,994 Interest rate 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.4 % 7.4 % 7.3 % 7.7 % Variable rate $ 85 $ 12 $ 12 $ 7 $ 605 (5) $ 18 $ 739 $ 735 Interest rate(3) (1) Includes unamortized discount and premium. (2) The interest rate at December 31, 2008, is LIBOR plus 0.76 percent. (3) The interest rate at December 31, 2007 was LIBOR plus 0.75 percent. (4) Excludes capital leases. (5) Includes Transcos subsequent refinancing of its $100 million notes, due on January 15, 2008, under our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility. (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) (6) The debt instruments in this table are classified by stated maturity date. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of certain non recourse debt of two of our Venezuelan subsidiaries that is in technical default and classified as current on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to the impact of fluctuations in the market price of natural gas and natural gas liquids, as well as other market factors, such as market volatility and commodity price correlations. We are exposed to these risks in connection with our owned energy related assets, our long term energy related contracts and our proprietary trading activities. We manage the risks associated with these market fluctuations using various derivatives and nonderivative energy related contracts. The fair value of derivative contracts is subject to changes in energy commodity market prices, the liquidity and volatility of the markets in which the contracts are transacted, and changes in interest rates. We measure the risk in our portfolios using a value at risk methodology to estimate the potential one day loss from adverse changes in the fair value of the portfolios. 75 Table of Contents Value at risk requires a number of key assumptions and is not necessarily representative of actual losses in fair value that could be incurred from the portfolios. Our value at risk model uses a Monte Carlo method to simulate hypothetical movements in future market prices and assumes that, as a result of changes in commodity prices, there is a 95 percent probability that the one day loss in fair value of the portfolios will not exceed the value at risk. The simulation method uses historical correlations and market forward prices and volatilities. In applying the value at risk methodology, we do not consider that the simulated hypothetical movements affect the positions or would cause any potential liquidity issues, nor do we consider that changing the portfolio in response to market conditions could affect market prices and could take longer than a one day holding period to execute. While a one day holding period has historically been the industry standard, a longer holding period could more accurately represent the true market risk given market liquidity and our own credit and liquidity constraints. We segregate our derivative contracts into trading and nontrading contracts, as defined in the following paragraphs. We calculate value at risk separately for these two categories. Derivative contracts designated as normal purchases or sales under SFAS No. 133 and nonderivative energy contracts have been excluded from our estimation of value at risk. Trading Our trading portfolio consists of derivative contracts entered into for purposes other than economically hedging our commodity price risk exposure. The fair value of our trading derivatives was a net liability of $29 million at December 31, 2008. Our value at risk for contracts held for trading purposes was $0.2 million at December 31, 2008, and $1 million at December 31, 2007. During the year ended December 31, 2008, our value at risk for these contracts ranged from a high of $3.3 million to a low of $0.2 million. Nontrading Our nontrading portfolio consists of derivative contracts that hedge or could potentially hedge the price risk exposure from the following activities: Segment Commodity Price Risk Exposure Exploration Production Natural gas sales Midstream Natural gas purchases Gas Marketing Services Natural gas purchases and sales The fair value of our nontrading derivatives was a net asset of $511 million at December 31, 2008. The value at risk for derivative contracts held for nontrading purposes was $33 million at December 31, 2008, and $24 million at December 31, 2007. During the year ended December 31, 2008, our value at risk for these contracts ranged from a high of $72 million to a low of $33 million. The increase in value at risk reflects the impact on our nontrading portfolio of the increase in volumes of Exploration Production hedges in 2009 and 2010. Derivative contracts included in our assets and liabilities of discontinued operations are included in the nontrading portfolio, but these had a value at risk of zero for both periods. Certain of the derivative contracts held for nontrading purposes are accounted for as cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133. Of the total fair value of nontrading derivatives, SFAS No. 133 cash flow hedges had a net asset value of $458 million as of December 31, 2008. Though these contracts are included in our value at risk calculation, any change in the fair value of the effective portion of these hedge contracts would generally not be reflected in earnings until the associated hedged item affects earnings. Trading Policy We have policies and procedures that govern our trading and risk management activities. These policies cover authority and delegation thereof in addition to control requirements, authorized commodities and term and exposure limitations. Value at risk is limited in aggregate and calculated at a 95 percent confidence level. 76 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Risk We have international investments that could affect our financial results if the investments incur a permanent decline in value as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and or the economic conditions in foreign countries. International investments accounted for under the cost method totaled $17 million at December 31, 2008, and $24 million at December 31, 2007. These investments are primarily in nonpublicly traded companies for which it is not practicable to estimate fair value. We believe that we can realize the carrying value of these investments considering the status of the operations of the companies underlying these investments. Net assets of consolidated foreign operations, whose functional currency is the local currency, are located primarily in Canada and approximate 5 percent and 7 percent of our net assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These foreign operations do not have significant transactions or financial instruments denominated in other currencies. However, these investments do have the potential to impact our financial position, due to fluctuations in these local currencies arising from the process of translating the local functional currency into the U.S. dollar. As an example, a 20 percent change in the respective functional currencies against the U.S. dollar would have changed stockholders equity by approximately $84 million at December 31, 2008. 77 Table of Contents 
 
