Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Strategic Restructuring On February 17, 2010, we completed a strategic restructuring, which involved contributing a substantial majority of our domestic midstream and gas pipeline businesses, including our limited and general partner interests in Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. (WMZ), into Williams Partners L.P. (WPZ). As consideration for the asset contributions, we received proceeds from WPZs debt issuance of approximately $3.5 billion, less WPZs transaction fees and expenses, as well as 203 million WPZ Class C units, which are identical to common units, except for a prorated initial distribution. We also maintained our 2 percent general partner interest. WPZ assumed approximately $2 billion of existing debt associated with the gas pipeline assets. In connection with the restructuring, we retired $3 billion of our debt and paid $574 million in related premiums. These amounts, as well as other transaction costs, were primarily funded with the cash consideration received from WPZ. The premiums paid and certain other transaction costs will be recorded as expense in the first quarter of 2010. As a result of our restructuring, we are better positioned to drive additional growth and pursue value adding growth strategies. Our new structure is designed to lower capital costs, enhance reliable access to capital markets, and create a greater ability to pursue development projects and acquisitions. (See Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) In conjunction with the restructuring, WPZ intends to make an exchange offer for the publicly held units of WMZ at a future date. See Strategic Restructuring in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10 K for further discussion of this potential exchange offer. Beginning with reporting of first quarter 2010 results, we will change our segment reporting structure to align with the new parent level focus, resource allocation management and related governance provisions resulting from the restructuring. Our reporting segments will be Williams Partners, Exploration Production, and Other. Exploration Production will include our current Gas Marketing segment and Other will include certain midstream and gas pipeline businesses that were not contributed to WPZ, such as our Canadian and olefins midstream businesses and the remaining 25.5 percent interest in Gulfstream, as well as corporate operations. Information in this report has generally been prepared to be consistent with the reportable segment presentation in our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this document, which reflects our segment reporting structure prior to the restructuring. General We are primarily a natural gas company engaged in finding, producing, gathering, processing, and transporting natural gas. Our operations are located principally in the United States and are organized into the following reporting segments as of December 31, 2009: Exploration Production, Gas Pipeline, Midstream Gas Liquids, and Gas Marketing Services. (See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I Item 1 for further discussion of these segments.) Unless indicated otherwise, the following discussion and analysis of critical accounting estimates, results of operations, and financial condition and liquidity relates to our current continuing operations and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8 of this document. Overview of 2009 The overall economic recession, related lower energy commodity price environment, and challenging financial markets during the past year had a significant impact on our business. While we began to see improvement in the second half of the year, these conditions have resulted in sharply lower results of operations, cash flow from operations and capital expenditures in 2009 compared to 2008. Anticipating these circumstances, our plan for 2009 was built around the transition from significant growth to a focus on sustaining our current operations and reducing costs where appropriate. Although capital expenditures were reduced compared to the prior year, we continued to invest in our businesses with a focus on completing major projects, meeting legal, regulatory, and or contractual 43 Table of Contents commitments, and maintaining a reduced level of natural gas production development. Objectives and highlights of this plan included: Objectives Highlights Continuing to invest in our gathering and processing and interstate natural gas pipeline systems We invested $513 million in capital expenditures in Midstream, primarily Deepwater Gulf expansion projects and gas processing capacity in the western United States. We also invested $485 million in capital expenditures in Gas Pipeline during 2009. Continuing to invest in our natural gas production development, although at a lower level than in recent years We invested $1.3 billion in drilling activity and the acquisition of additional producing properties in Exploration Production. Retaining the flexibility to adjust our planned levels of capital and investment expenditures in response to changes in economic conditions, as well as seizing attractive opportunities During 2009, capital and investment purchases were funded primarily through cash flow from operations while maintaining liquidity of at least $1 billion from cash and cash equivalents and unused revolving credit facilities. In addition, our Exploration Production and Midstream segments seized growth opportunities to enter the Marcellus Shale, while Exploration Production also expanded its footprint in the Piceance basin. (See further discussion in Other Significant 2009 Events.) Our 2009 income from continuing operations attributable to The Williams Companies, Inc., decreased by $868 million compared to 2008. This decrease is primarily reflective of the overall unfavorable commodity price environment for the full year of 2009 as compared to 2008. Commodity prices declined sharply in the fourth quarter of 2008, but have improved in the latter half of 2009. See additional discussion in Results of Operations. Our net cash provided by operating activities for 2009 decreased $783 million compared to 2008, primarily due to the decrease in our operating results. See additional discussion in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Liquidity. Other Significant 2009 Events In March 2009, we issued $600 million aggregate principal amount of 8.75 percent senior unsecured notes due 2020 to certain institutional investors in a private debt placement. In August 2009, we completed an exchange of these notes for substantially identical new notes that are registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. In April 2009, Midstream announced its plan to build a 261 mile natural gas liquids pipeline in Canada at an estimated cost of $283 million. Construction is expected to begin in 2010 with completion expected in 2012. In May 2009, certain of Midstreams Venezuela operations were expropriated by the Venezuelan government. As a result, these operations are now reflected as discontinued operations and have been deconsolidated. (See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) In June 2009, Midstream finalized the formation of a new joint venture in the Marcellus Shale located in southwest Pennsylvania. (See Results of Operations Segments, Midstream Gas Liquids.) In June 2009, Exploration Production entered into an agreement to develop properties in the Marcellus Shale. (See Results of Operations Segments, Exploration Production.) In September 2009, Exploration Production completed the purchase of additional properties in the Piceance basin of Colorado for $253 million. (See Results of Operations Segments, Exploration Production.) In September 2009, Gas Pipeline received approval from the FERC to begin construction of the 85 North expansion project at an estimated cost of $241 million. (See Results of Operations Segments, Gas Pipeline.) 44 Table of Contents Outlook for 2010 We believe we are well positioned to execute on our 2010 business plan and to capture attractive growth opportunities. The economic environment in the latter half of 2009 has improved compared to conditions earlier in the year. In addition, economic and commodity price indicators for 2010 and beyond reflect continued improvement in the economic environment. However, given the potential volatility of these measures, it is reasonably possible that the economy could worsen and or commodity prices could decline, negatively impacting future operating results and increasing the risk of nonperformance of counterparties or impairments of goodwill and long lived assets. As a result of our 2010 restructuring, as previously discussed, we are better positioned to drive additional growth and pursue value adding growth strategies. Our new structure is designed to lower capital costs, enhance reliable access to capital markets, and create a greater ability to pursue development projects and acquisitions. We continue to operate with a focus on EVA and invest in our businesses in a way that meets customer needs and enhances our competitive position by: Continuing to invest in and grow our gathering and processing and interstate natural gas pipeline systems; Continuing to invest in our natural gas drilling at a level generally consistent with the prior year and maintaining capacity to consider additional investment in attractive opportunities to diversify our reserves; Retaining the flexibility to adjust our planned levels of capital and investment expenditures in response to changes in economic conditions. Potential risks and or obstacles that could impact the execution of our plan include: Lower than anticipated commodity prices; Lower than expected levels of cash flow from operations; Availability of capital; Counterparty credit and performance risk; Decreased drilling success at Exploration Production; Decreased volumes from third parties served by Midstream; General economic, financial markets, or industry downturn; Changes in the political and regulatory environments; Physical damages to facilities, especially damage to offshore facilities by named windstorms for which our aggregate insurance policy limit is $37.5 million in the event of a material loss. We continue to address these risks through utilization of commodity hedging strategies, disciplined investment strategies, and maintaining at least $1 billion in liquidity from cash and cash equivalents and unused revolving credit facilities. In addition, we utilize master netting agreements and collateral requirements with our counterparties to reduce credit risk and liquidity requirements. Accounting Pronouncements Issued But Not Yet Adopted Accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet adopted may have an effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements in the future. See Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Adopted in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on recently issued accounting standards. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions. We have discussed the following accounting estimates and 45 Table of Contents assumptions as well as related disclosures with our Audit Committee. We believe that the nature of these estimates and assumptions is material due to the subjectivity and judgment necessary, or the susceptibility of such matters to change, and the impact of these on our financial condition or results of operations. Impairments of Long Lived Assets and Goodwill We evaluate our long lived assets for impairment when we believe events or changes in circumstances indicate that we may not be able to recover the carrying value. Our computations utilize judgments and assumptions that may include the estimated fair value of the asset, undiscounted future cash flows, discounted future cash flows, and the current and future economic environment in which the asset is operated. We assess our natural gas producing properties and associated unproved leasehold costs for impairment using estimates of future cash flows. Significant judgments and assumptions in these assessments include estimates of natural gas reserves quantities, estimates of future natural gas prices using a forward NYMEX curve adjusted for locational basis differentials, drilling plans, expected capital costs, and an applicable discount rate commensurate with risk of the underlying cash flow estimates. Considering market based pricing at December 31, 2009, we are not currently aware of any significant properties that are approaching impairment thresholds. In addition to those long lived assets for which impairment charges were recorded (see Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), certain others were reviewed for which no impairment was required. These reviews included Exploration Productions properties and utilized inputs consistent with those described above. Certain assets within our Midstream segment were also evaluated for impairment utilizing judgments and assumptions including future fees, margins, and volumes. These underlying variables are subjective and susceptible to change. The use of alternate judgments and assumptions could result in the recognition of different levels of impairment charges in the consolidated financial statements. We have goodwill of approximately $1 billion at Exploration Production related to its domestic operations (the reporting unit) primarily resulting from a 2001 acquisition. We assess goodwill for impairment annually as of the end of the year. Because quoted market prices are not available for the reporting unit, management applies a range of reasonable judgments (including market supported assumptions when available) in estimating a range of fair values for the reporting unit. We estimate the fair value of the reporting unit on a stand alone basis and also consider our market capitalization in corroborating our estimate of the fair value of the reporting unit. As of December 31, 2009, the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, including goodwill, indicating no impairment of Exploration Productions goodwill. We estimated the fair value of the reporting unit on a stand alone basis primarily by valuing proved and unproved reserves. We used an income approach (discounted cash flows) for valuing reserves. The significant inputs into the valuation of proved reserves included reserve quantities, forward natural gas prices, anticipated drilling and operating costs, anticipated production curves, and appropriate discount rates. Unproved reserves were valued using similar assumptions adjusted further for the uncertainty associated with these reserves. We corroborated our fair value estimates with recent market transactions where possible. In estimating the inputs, management must make assumptions that require judgments and are subject to change in response to changing market conditions and other future events. Significant assumptions in valuing proved reserves included reserves quantities of more than 4.7 Tcfe, forward natural gas prices, adjusted for locational differences, averaging approximately $5.97 per Mcfe, and an after tax discount rate of 11 percent. At December 31, 2009, we believe that an overall 20 percent or greater reduction to our estimates of future revenues, which are a component of our estimates of future cash flows, could result in an impairment of goodwill. Future revenue estimates are largely impacted by estimated prices and reserves. This sensitivity does not include any related changes in operating taxes or production costs. We currently do not consider such a decrease in future revenues across all future periods to be likely. We further reviewed the fair value of the reporting unit estimated on a stand alone basis, by considering our market capitalization in a reconciliation of the fair values of all our businesses, including the reporting unit. In this 46 Table of Contents reconciliation, we determined our market capitalization, including a control premium, and estimated the fair values of all our businesses considering certain financial performance metrics. The range of control premiums that we considered were consistent with historical market sales transactions and also considered the current market environment. Market capitalization was based on our traded stock price for a reasonably short period of time before and after December 31, 2009. In evaluating the items in our reconciliation analysis, management considered a range of reasonable judgments. This analysis allowed management to consider market expectations in corroborating the reasonableness of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit. We also perform interim assessments of goodwill if impairment triggering events or circumstances are present. Examples of impairment triggering events or circumstances include: The testing for recoverability of a significant long lived asset group within the reporting unit; Sustained operating losses or negative cash flows at the reporting unit level; A significant decline in forward natural gas prices or reserve quantities; Not meeting internal forecasts, or significant downward adjustments to future forecasts; A decline in enterprise market capitalization below our total consolidated stockholders equity; Industry trends. We cannot predict future market conditions and events that might adversely affect the estimated fair value of the Exploration Production reporting unit and possibly the reported value of goodwill. The estimated fair value of the reporting unit is significantly affected by natural gas prices, reserve quantities, and market expectations for required rates of return. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of reserves that could affect our reserve quantities. Low prices for natural gas, regulatory limitations, or the lack of available capital for projects could adversely affect the development and production of additional reserves. Given the challenges affecting our businesses and the energy industry in 2010, these factors could impact us and require us to perform interim assessments of goodwill for possible impairment during 2010, which could result in a material impairment of our goodwill. Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities We review our energy contracts to determine whether they are, or contain derivatives. We further assess the appropriate accounting method for any derivatives identified, which could include: Qualifying for and electing cash flow hedge accounting, which recognizes changes in the fair value of the derivative in other comprehensive income (to the extent the hedge is effective) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings; Qualifying for and electing accrual accounting under the normal purchases and normal sales exception; or Applying mark to market accounting, which recognizes changes in the fair value of the derivative in earnings. If cash flow hedge accounting or accrual accounting is not applied, a derivative is subject to mark to market accounting. Determination of the accounting method involves significant judgments and assumptions, which are further described below. The determination of whether a derivative contract qualifies as a cash flow hedge includes an analysis of historical market price information to assess whether the derivative is expected to be highly effective in offsetting the cash flows attributed to the hedged risk. We also assess whether the hedged forecasted transaction is probable of occurring. This assessment requires us to exercise judgment and consider a wide variety of factors in addition to our intent, including internal and external forecasts, historical experience, changing market and business conditions, our financial and operational ability to carry out the forecasted transaction, the length of time until the forecasted transaction is projected to occur, and the quantity of the forecasted transaction. In addition, we compare actual cash flows to those that were expected from the underlying risk. If a hedged forecasted transaction is not probable of 47 Table of Contents occurring, or if the derivative contract is not expected to be highly effective, the derivative does not qualify for hedge accounting. For derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, we must periodically assess whether they continue to qualify for hedge accounting. We prospectively discontinue hedge accounting and recognize future changes in fair value directly in earnings if we no longer expect the hedge to be highly effective, or if we believe that the hedged forecasted transaction is no longer probable of occurring. If the forecasted transaction becomes probable of not occurring, we reclassify amounts previously recorded in other comprehensive income into earnings in addition to prospectively discontinuing hedge accounting. If the effectiveness of the derivative improves and is again expected to be highly effective in offsetting the cash flows attributed to the hedged risk, or if the forecasted transaction again becomes probable, we may prospectively re designate the derivative as a hedge of the underlying risk. Derivatives for which the normal purchases and normal sales exception has been elected are accounted for on an accrual basis. In determining whether a derivative is eligible for this exception, we assess whether the contract provides for the purchase or sale of a commodity that will be physically delivered in quantities expected to be used or sold over a reasonable period in the normal course of business. In making this assessment, we consider numerous factors, including the quantities provided under the contract in relation to our business needs, delivery locations per the contract in relation to our operating locations, duration of time between entering the contract and delivery, past trends and expected future demand, and our past practices and customs with regard to such contracts. Additionally, we assess whether it is probable that the contract will result in physical delivery of the commodity and not net financial settlement. Since our energy derivative contracts could be accounted for in three different ways, two of which are elective, our accounting method could be different from that used by another party for a similar transaction. Furthermore, the accounting method may influence the level of volatility in the financial statements associated with changes in the fair value of derivatives, as generally depicted below: Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Balance Sheet Accounting Method Drivers Impact Drivers Impact Accrual Accounting Realizations Less Volatility None No Impact Cash Flow Hedge Accounting Realizations Ineffectiveness Less Volatility Fair Value Changes More Volatility Mark to Market Accounting Fair Value Changes More Volatility Fair Value Changes More Volatility Our determination of the accounting method does not impact our cash flows related to derivatives. Additional discussion of the accounting for energy contracts at fair value is included in Notes 1 and 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Oil and Gas Producing Activities We use the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas producing activities. Estimated natural gas and oil reserves and forward market prices for oil and gas are a significant part of our financial calculations. Following are examples of how these estimates affect financial results: An increase (decrease) in estimated proved oil and gas reserves can reduce (increase) our unit of production depreciation, depletion and amortization rates. Changes in oil and gas reserves and forward market prices both impact projected future cash flows from our oil and gas properties. This, in turn, can impact our periodic impairment analyses, including that for goodwill. The process of estimating natural gas and oil reserves is very complex, requiring significant judgment in the evaluation of all available geological, geophysical, engineering, and economic data. After being estimated internally, approximately 99 percent of our reserve estimates are either audited or prepared by independent experts. (See Part I Item 1 for further discussion.) The data may change substantially over time as a result of numerous factors, including additional development cost and activity, evolving production history, and a continual reassessment of the viability of production under changing economic conditions. As a result, material revisions to existing reserve estimates could occur from time to time. Such changes could trigger an impairment of our oil and 48 Table of Contents gas properties and or goodwill and have an impact on our depreciation, depletion and amortization expense prospectively. For example, a change of approximately 10 percent in our total oil and gas reserves could change our annual depreciation, depletion and amortization expense between approximately $72 million and $87 million. The actual impact would depend on the specific basins impacted and whether the change resulted from proved developed, proved undeveloped or a combination of these reserve categories. Forward market prices, which are utilized in our impairment analyses, include estimates of prices for periods that extend beyond those with quoted market prices. This forward market price information is consistent with that generally used in evaluating our drilling decisions and acquisition plans. These market prices for future periods impact the production economics underlying oil and gas reserve estimates. The prices of natural gas and oil are volatile and change from period to period, thus impacting our estimates. Significant unfavorable changes in the forward price curve could result in an impairment of our oil and gas properties and or goodwill. Contingent Liabilities We record liabilities for estimated loss contingencies, including environmental matters, when we assess that a loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Revisions to contingent liabilities are generally reflected in income when new or different facts or information become known or circumstances change that affect the previous assumptions with respect to the likelihood or amount of loss. Liabilities for contingent losses are based upon our assumptions and estimates and upon advice of legal counsel, engineers, or other third parties regarding the probable outcomes of the matter. As new developments occur or more information becomes available, our assumptions and estimates of these liabilities may change. Changes in our assumptions and estimates or outcomes different from our current assumptions and estimates could materially affect future results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period. See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets and Tax Contingencies We have deferred tax assets resulting from certain investments and businesses that have a tax basis in excess of the book basis and from tax carry forwards generated in the current and prior years. We must evaluate whether we will ultimately realize these tax benefits and establish a valuation allowance for those that may not be realizable. This evaluation considers tax planning strategies, including assumptions about the availability and character of future taxable income. At December 31, 2009, we have $681 million of deferred tax assets for which a $4 million valuation allowance has been established. When assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider forecasts of future company performance, the estimated impact of potential asset dispositions, and our ability and intent to execute tax planning strategies to utilize tax carryovers. The ultimate amount of deferred tax assets realized could be materially different from those recorded, as influenced by potential changes in jurisdictional income tax laws and the circumstances surrounding the actual realization of related tax assets. We regularly face challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. We evaluate the liability associated with our various filing positions by applying the two step process of recognition and measurement. The ultimate disposition of these contingencies could have a significant impact on operating results and net cash flows. To the extent we were to prevail in matters for which accruals have been established or were required to pay amounts in excess of our accrued liability, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Pension and Postretirement Obligations We have employee benefit plans that include pension and other postretirement benefits. Net periodic benefit expense and obligations for these plans are impacted by various estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include the expected long term rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, expected rate of compensation increase, health care cost trend rates, and employee demographics, including retirement age and mortality. These assumptions are reviewed annually and adjustments are made as needed. The assumptions utilized to compute expense and the benefit obligations are shown in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 49 Table of Contents The following table presents the estimated increase (decrease) in net periodic benefit expense and obligations resulting from a one percentage point change in the specified assumption. Benefit Expense Benefit Obligation One Percentage One Percentage One Percentage One Percentage Point Increase Point Decrease Point Increase Point Decrease (Millions) Pension benefits: Discount rate $ (9 ) $ 10 $ (114 ) $ 135 Expected long term rate of return on plan assets (9 ) 9 Rate of compensation increase 3 (2 ) 12 (10 ) Other postretirement benefits: Discount rate (2 ) 3 (30 ) 36 Expected long term rate of return on plan assets (1 ) 1 Assumed health care cost trend rate 2 (2 ) 33 (27 ) Our expected long term rates of return on plan assets, as determined at the beginning of each fiscal year, are based on the average rate of return expected on the funds invested in the plans. We determine our long term expected rate of return on plan assets using our expectations of capital market results, which includes an analysis of historical results as well as forward looking projections. These capital market expectations are based on a long term period of at least ten years and consider our investment strategy and mix of assets, which is weighted toward domestic and international equity securities. We develop our expectations using input from several external sources, including consultation with our third party independent investment consultant. The forward looking capital market projections are developed using a consensus of economists expectations for inflation, GDP growth, and dividend yield along with expected changes in risk premiums. The capital market return projections for specific asset classes in the investment portfolio are then applied to the relative weightings of the asset classes in the investment portfolio. The resulting rate is an estimate of future results and, thus, likely to be different than actual results. The capital markets improved in 2009 and the benefit plans assets reflect this improvement. While the 2009 investment performance was greater than our expected rates of return, the expected rates of return on plan assets are long term in nature and are not significantly impacted by short term market performance. Changes to our asset allocation would also impact these expected rates of return. Our expected long term rate of return on plan assets used for our pension plans has been 7.75 percent since 2006. The 2009 actual return on plan assets for our pension plans was a gain of approximately 21.8 percent. The ten year average rate of return on pension plan assets through December 2009 was approximately 2.2 percent and is largely affected by the approximately 34.1 percent loss experienced in 2008. The discount rates are used to measure the benefit obligations of our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The objective of the discount rates is to determine the amount, if invested at the December 31 measurement date in a portfolio of high quality debt securities, that will provide the necessary cash flows when benefit payments are due. Increases in the discount rates decrease the obligation and, generally, decrease the related expense. The discount rates for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined separately based on an approach specific to our plans and their respective expected benefit cash flows as described in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our discount rate assumptions are impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions that affect interest rates on long term high quality debt securities as well as by the duration of our plans liabilities. The expected rate of compensation increase represents average long term salary increases. An increase in this rate causes the pension obligation and expense to increase. The assumed health care cost trend rates are based on national trend rates adjusted for our actual historical cost rates and plan design. An increase in this rate causes the other postretirement benefit obligation and expense to increase. 50 Table of Contents Fair Value Measurements Certain of our energy derivative assets and liabilities and other assets trade in markets with lower availability of pricing information requiring us to use unobservable inputs and are considered Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. At December 31, 2009, less than 1 percent of the total assets and total liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are included in Level 3. For Level 2 transactions, we do not make significant adjustments to observable prices in measuring fair value as we do not generally trade in inactive markets. The determination of fair value for our assets and liabilities also incorporates the time value of money and various credit risk factors which can include the credit standing of the counterparties involved, master netting arrangements, the impact of credit enhancements (such as cash collateral posted and letters of credit) and our nonperformance risk on our liabilities. The determination of the fair value of our liabilities does not consider noncash collateral credit enhancements. For net derivative assets, we apply a credit spread, based on the credit rating of the counterparty, against the net derivative asset with that counterparty. For net derivative liabilities we apply our own credit rating. We derive the credit spreads by using the corporate industrial credit curves for each rating category and building a curve based on certain points in time for each rating category. The spread comes from the discount factor of the individual corporate curves versus the discount factor of the LIBOR curve. At December 31, 2009, the credit reserve is less than $1 million on our net derivative assets and $3 million on our net derivative liabilities. Considering these factors and that we do not have significant risk from our net credit exposure to derivative counterparties, the impact of credit risk is not significant to the overall fair value of our derivatives portfolio. At December 31, 2009, 82 percent of our derivatives portfolio expires in the next 12 months and more than 99 percent of our derivatives portfolio expires in the next 36 months. Our derivatives portfolio is largely comprised of exchange traded products or like products where price transparency has not historically been a concern. Due to the nature of the markets in which we transact and the relatively short tenure of our derivatives portfolio, we do not believe it is necessary to make an adjustment for illiquidity. We regularly analyze the liquidity of the markets based on the prevalence of broker pricing and exchange pricing for products in our derivatives portfolio. At December 31, 2009, Level 2 includes option contracts that hedge future sales of production from our Exploration Production segment; these options are structured as costless collars and are financially settled. They are valued using an industry standard Black Scholes option pricing model. Prior to the third quarter of 2009, these options were included in Level 3 because a significant input to the model, implied volatility by location, was considered unobservable. However, due to the increased transparency, we now consider this input to be observable and have included these options in Level 2. The instruments included in Level 3 at December 31, 2009, consist of natural gas liquids swaps for our Midstream segment as well as natural gas index transactions that are used to manage the physical requirements of our Exploration Production and Midstream segments. The change in the overall fair value of instruments included in Level 3 primarily results from changes in commodity prices. Exploration Production has an unsecured credit agreement through December 2013 with certain banks that, so long as certain conditions are met, serves to reduce our usage of cash and other credit facilities for margin requirements related to instruments included in the facility. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we have recognized impairments of certain assets that have been measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. These impairment measurements are included in Level 3 as they include significant unobservable inputs, such as our estimate of future cash flows and the probabilities of alternative scenarios. (See Note 14 of notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) 51 Table of Contents Results of Operations Consolidated Overview The following table and discussion is a summary of our consolidated results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 2009. The results of operations by segment are discussed in further detail following this consolidated overview discussion. Years Ended December 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change from from from from 2009 2008* 2008* 2008 2007* 2007* 2007 (Millions) Revenues $ 8,255 3,635 31 % $ 11,890 +1,651 +16 % $ 10,239 Costs and expenses: Costs and operating expenses 6,081 +2,695 +31 % 8,776 944 12 % 7,832 Selling, general and administrative expenses 512 8 2 % 504 43 9 % 461 Other (income) expense net 17 89 NM (72 ) +70 NM (2 ) General corporate expenses 164 15 10 % 149 +12 +7 % 161 Total costs and expenses 6,774 9,357 8,452 Operating income 1,481 2,533 1,787 Interest accrued net (585 ) 8 1 % (577 ) +55 +9 % (632 ) Investing income 46 143 76 % 189 63 25 % 252 Early debt retirement costs (1 ) (1 ) +18 +95 % (19 ) Other income net 2 +2 NM 12 100 % 12 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 943 2,144 1,400 Provision for income taxes 359 +318 +47 % 677 187 38 % 490 Income from continuing operations 584 1,467 910 Income (loss) from discontinued operations (223 ) 348 NM 125 45 26 % 170 Net income 361 1,592 1,080 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 76 +98 +56 % 174 84 93 % 90 Net income attributable to The Williams Companies, Inc. $ 285 $ 1,418 $ 990 * + Favorable change; Unfavorable change; NM A percentage calculation is not meaningful due to change in signs, a zero value denominator, or a percentage change greater than 200. 2009 vs. 2008 Our consolidated results in 2009 declined significantly compared to 2008. These results reflect a rapid decline in energy commodity prices that began in the fourth quarter of 2008 as a result of the weakened economy. Energy commodity prices have generally improved during 2009, but not to levels experienced early in 2008. The decrease in revenues is primarily due to decreased realized revenue at Gas Marketing primarily reflecting a decrease in average natural gas prices as well as lower natural gas liquid (NGL) and olefin production revenues and lower marketing revenues at Midstream. In addition, Exploration Production revenues decreased primarily due to lower net realized average prices, partially offset by higher production volumes sold. The decrease in costs and operating expenses is primarily due to decreased costs at Gas Marketing primarily reflecting a decrease in average natural gas prices as well as decreased marketing purchases and decreased costs associated with our olefin and NGL production businesses at Midstream. 52 Table of Contents Other (income) expense net within operating income in 2009 includes: Gain of $40 million on the sale of our Cameron Meadows NGL processing plant at Midstream; Expense of $32 million related to penalties from the early termination of certain drilling rig contracts at Exploration Production; Impairment charges totaling $20 million at Exploration Production. Other (income) expense net within operating income in 2008 includes: Gain of $148 million on the sale of our Peru interests at Exploration Production; Net gains of $39 million on foreign currency exchanges at Midstream; Income of $32 million related to the partial settlement of our Gulf Liquids litigation at Midstream; Gain of $10 million on the sale of certain south Texas assets at Gas Pipeline; Income of $17 million resulting from involuntary conversion gains at Midstream; Impairment charges totaling $143 million related to certain natural gas producing properties at Exploration Production; Expense of $23 million related to project development costs at Gas Pipeline. General corporate expenses increased primarily due to an increase in employee related expenses, partially offset by a decrease in outside services. The decrease in operating income generally reflects an overall unfavorable energy commodity price environment in 2009 compared to 2008 and other changes as previously discussed. The decrease in investing income is primarily due to a $75 million impairment of Midstreams Accroven investment and an $11 million impairment of a cost based investment at Exploration Production. (See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) A decrease in interest income, primarily due to lower average interest rates in 2009 compared to 2008, also contributed to the decrease in investing income. Provision for income taxes decreased primarily due to lower pre tax income. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a reconciliation of the effective tax rates compared to the federal statutory rate for both years. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the items in income (loss) from discontinued operations. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests decreased reflecting the first quarter 2009 impairments and related charges associated with Midstreams discontinued Venezuela operations (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) and the decline in Williams Partners L.P.s operating results primarily driven by lower NGL margins. 2008 vs. 2007 Our consolidated results in 2008 improved significantly compared to 2007. However, these results were considerably influenced by favorable results in the first three quarters of the year, followed by a sharp decline in the fourth quarter due to a rapid decline in energy commodity prices. The increase in revenues is primarily due to higher production revenues at Exploration Production resulting from both higher net realized average prices and increased production volumes sold. Midstream also experienced higher olefin production revenues primarily due to higher average prices and volumes as well as increased NGL production revenues resulting from higher average prices, partially offset by lower volumes. Additionally, Gas Marketing revenues increased primarily due to favorable price movements on derivative positions economically hedging the anticipated withdrawals of natural gas from storage and the absence of a loss recognized on a legacy derivative sales contract in 2007. 53 Table of Contents The increase in costs and operating expenses is primarily due to increased costs associated with our olefin and NGL production businesses at Midstream. Higher depreciation, depletion, and amortization and higher operating taxes at Exploration Production also contributed to the increase in expenses. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses (SGA) primarily includes the impact of higher staffing and compensation at our Exploration Production and Midstream segments in support of increased operational activities. Other (income) expense net within operating income in 2007 includes: Income of $18 million associated with payments received for a terminated firm transportation agreement on Northwest Pipelines Grays Harbor lateral; Income of $17 million associated with a change in estimate related to a regulatory liability at Northwest Pipeline; Income of $12 million related to a favorable litigation outcome at Midstream; Income of $8 million due to the reversal of a planned major maintenance accrual at Midstream; Expense of $20 million related to an accrual for litigation contingencies at Gas Marketing; Net losses of $11 million on foreign currency exchanges at Midstream; Expense of $10 million related to an impairment of the Carbonate Trend pipeline at Midstream. The increase in operating income reflects improved operating results at Exploration Production due to higher net realized average prices, natural gas production growth and a gain of $148 million on the sale of our Peru interests, partially offset by increased operating costs and $143 million of property impairments in 2008. The increase also reflects improved results at Gas Marketing primarily due to favorable price movements on derivative positions economically hedging the anticipated withdrawals of natural gas from storage and the absence of a loss recognized on a legacy derivative sales contract in 2007. Partially offsetting these increases is a decrease in operating income at Midstream primarily due to a sharp decline in energy commodity prices in the latter part of 2008. Interest accrued net decreased primarily due to increased capitalized interest resulting from an increased level of capital expenditures. The decrease was also a result of lower interest rates on debt issuances that occurred late in the fourth quarter of 2007 and in the first half of 2008 for which the proceeds were primarily used to retire existing debt bearing higher interest rates. While our overall debt balances have been relatively comparable, the net effect of these retirements and issuances has resulted in lower rates. The decrease in investing income is primarily due to a decrease in interest income largely resulting from lower average interest rates in 2008 compared to 2007. Early debt retirement costs in 2007 includes $19 million of premiums and fees related to the December 2007 repurchase of senior unsecured notes. Provision for income taxes increased primarily due to higher pre tax income partially offset by a reduction in our estimate of the effective deferred state tax rate in 2008. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a reconciliation of the effective tax rate compared to the federal statutory rate for both years. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the items in income (loss) from discontinued operations. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased primarily reflecting the growth in the noncontrolling interest holdings of Williams Partners L.P. and Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. in late 2007 and early 2008, respectively. 54 Table of Contents Results of Operations Segments As of December 31, 2009, we are organized into the following segments: Exploration Production, Gas Pipeline, Midstream, Gas Marketing Services, and Other. Other primarily consists of corporate operations. Our management evaluates performance based on segment profit (loss) from operations. (See Note 18 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) As previously discussed, our reportable segments will change in the first quarter of 2010 as a result of our restructuring transactions. Exploration Production Overview of 2009 Segment revenues and segment profit for 2009 were significantly lower than 2008 primarily due to a sharp decline in net realized average prices partially offset by higher production volumes. Additionally, 2009 results include expense of $32 million associated with contractual penalties from the early termination of drilling rig contracts and $20 million of impairment charges. Highlights of the comparative periods include: For The Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 % Change Average daily domestic production sold (MMcfe)(1) 1,182 1,094 +8 % Average daily total production sold (MMcfe) 1,236 1,144 +8 % Domestic net realized average price ($/Mcfe)(2) $ 4.22 $ 6.48 35 % Capital expenditures incurred ($ millions) $ 1,291 $ 2,519 49 % Segment revenues ($ millions) $ 2,219 $ 3,121 29 % Segment profit ($ millions) $ 418 $ 1,260 67 % (1) MMcfe is equal to one million cubic feet of gas equivalent. (2) Mcfe is equal to one thousand cubic feet of gas equivalent. The increased production is primarily within the Piceance, Powder River, and Fort Worth basins. We reduced development activities and related capital expenditures in 2009, which resulted in production peaking during the first quarter of 2009, then decreasing slightly thereafter. Net realized average prices include market prices, net of fuel and shrink and hedge gains and losses, less gathering and transportation expenses. The realized hedge gain per Mcfe was $1.43 and $.09 for 2009 and 2008, respectively. We drilled 875 gross domestic productive development wells in 2009 with a success rate of 99 percent. On January 14, 2009, the SEC issued the Final Rule for Modernization of Oil and Gas Reporting which affects how oil and gas companies report their reserves. These changes included: (1) applying the expanded definition of oil and gas reserves used for reserves estimation supported by reliable technologies and reasonable certainty; (2) revising proved undeveloped reserve estimates based on new guidance; and (3) estimating proved reserves for disclosure in SEC filings using the 12 month average, first of the month price instead of a single day, period end price. The FASB substantially conformed its requirements to the SEC rule with the issuance of its Accounting Standards Update 2010 03, Oil and Gas Reserve Estimation and Disclosures. Our estimated domestic proved reserves as of December 31, 2009 are 4,255 Bcfe. Significant Events In June 2009, we entered into an agreement that allows us to acquire, through a drill to earn structure, a 50 percent interest in approximately 44,000 net acres in Pennsylvanias Marcellus Shale in the Appalachian basin. This agreement requires us to fund $33 million of drilling and completion costs on behalf of our partner and $41 million of our own costs and expenses prior to the end of 2011 to earn our 50 percent interest. This growth 55 Table of Contents opportunity leverages our experience in developing nonconventional natural gas reserves. Through December 2009, we have funded $14 million of the $33 million. In September 2009, we completed the purchase of additional unproved leasehold acreage and proved properties in the Piceance basin for $253 million. In December 2009, we increased our working interest in these properties through a $22 million acquisition. Outlook for 2010 We expect natural gas prices to increase in 2010, resulting in higher segment revenues and segment profit. We plan to maintain capital expenditures at a level similar to 2009 with a consistent level of drilling rigs operating in 2010 compared to 2009. We have the following expectations and objectives for 2010: Continuation of our development drilling program in the Piceance, Fort Worth, Powder River, San Juan and Appalachian basins. Our capital expenditures for 2010 are projected to be between $1 billion and $1.4 billion. This includes our drilling program in the Marcellus Shale that will enable us to meet the terms of our agreement as previously discussed. Annual average daily domestic production level consistent with 2009, with fourth quarter 2010 volumes likely to be higher than the prior year comparable period. Stability in the costs of services and materials associated with development activities. Risks to achieving our expectations and objectives include unfavorable natural gas market price movements which are impacted by numerous factors, including weather conditions, domestic natural gas production levels and demand, and a slower recovery in the global economy than expected. A significant decline in natural gas prices could impact these expectations for 2010, although the impact would be somewhat mitigated by our hedging program, which hedges a significant portion of our expected production. In addition, changes in laws and regulations may impact our development drilling program. For example, the Colorado Oil Gas Conservation Commission enacted new rules effective in April 2009 which increased our costs of permitting and environmental compliance and could potentially delay drilling permits. The new rules included additional environmental and operational requirements as part of permit approvals, tracking of certain chemicals brought on location, increased wildlife stipulations, new pit and waste management procedures and increased notifications and approvals from surface landowners. Our current outlook incorporates these changes; however, the extent and magnitude of other changes in laws and regulations could be greater than our current assumptions. Commodity Price Risk Strategy To manage the commodity price risk and volatility of owning producing gas properties, we enter into derivative contracts for a portion of our future production. For 2010, we have the following contracts for our daily domestic production, shown at weighted average volumes and basin level weighted average prices: 2010 Price ($/Mcf) Volume Floor Ceiling for (MMcf/d) Collars Collars Rockies 100 $ 6.53 $8.94 Collars San Juan 233 $ 5.75 $7.82 Collars Mid Continent 105 $ 5.37 $7.41 Collars Southern California 45 $ 4.80 $6.43 Collars Other 28 $ 5.63 $6.87 NYMEX and basis fixed price 120 $4.40 56 Table of Contents The following is a summary of our contracts for daily production for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: 2009 2008 2007 Price ($/Mcf) Price ($/Mcf) Price ($/Mcf) Volume Floor Ceiling Volume Floor Ceiling Volume Floor Ceiling (MMcf/d) for Collars (MMcf/d) for Collars (MMcf/d) for Collars Collars NYMEX 15 $6.50 $8.25 Collars Rockies 150 $6.11 $9.04 170 $6.16 $9.14 50 $5.65 $7.45 Collars San Juan 245 $6.58 $9.62 202 $6.35 $8.96 130 $5.98 $9.63 Collars Mid Continent 95 $7.08 $9.73 63 $7.02 $9.72 76 $6.82 $10.77 NYMEX and basis fixed price 106 $3.67 70 $3.97 172 $3.90 Additionally, we utilize contracted pipeline capacity through Gas Marketing Services to move our production from the Rockies to other locations when pricing differentials are favorable to Rockies pricing. We hold a long term obligation through Gas Marketing Services to deliver on a firm basis 200,000 MMbtu per day of gas to a buyer at the White River Hub (Greasewood Meeker, Colorado), which is the major market hub exiting the Piceance basin. Our interest in the Piceance basin holds ample reserves to meet this obligation. Year Over Year Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 2,219 $ 3,121 $ 2,021 Segment profit $ 418 $ 1,260 $ 756 2009 vs. 2008 The decrease in total segment revenues is primarily due to the following: $725 million, or 27 percent, decrease in domestic production revenues reflecting $935 million associated with a 35 percent decrease in net realized average prices, partially offset by an increase of $210 million associated with a 8 percent increase in production volumes sold. Production revenues in 2009 and 2008 include approximately $93 million and $85 million, respectively, related to natural gas liquids (NGL) and approximately $36 million and $62 million, respectively, related to condensate. While NGL volumes were significantly higher than the prior year, NGL prices were significantly lower. $169 million decrease primarily reflecting lower average sales prices for gas management activities related to gas purchased from certain outside parties, which is offset by a similar decrease in segment costs and expenses. Total segment costs and expenses decreased $62 million, primarily due to the following: $163 million lower operating taxes due primarily to 56 percent lower average market prices (excluding the impact of hedges), partially offset by higher production volumes sold. The lower operating taxes include a net decrease of $39 million reflecting a $34 million charge in 2008 and $5 million of favorable revisions in 2009 relating to Wyoming severance and ad valorem tax issues; $165 million decrease primarily reflecting lower average sales prices for gas management activities related to gas purchased from certain outside parties, which is offset by a similar decrease in segment revenues; $143 million due to the absence of property impairments recorded in 2008 in the Arkoma basin; $8 million lower lease and other operating expenses due to lower industry costs and activity partially offset by the effect of an increase in production volumes; 57 Table of Contents $5 million lower SGA expenses, which includes lower bad debt expense related to the partial recovery of certain receivables previously reserved for in 2008 resulting from a bankrupt counterparty. Partially offsetting the decreased costs are increases due to the following: The absence of a $148 million gain recorded in 2008 associated with the sale of our Peru interests; $152 million higher depreciation, depletion and amortization expense primarily due to the impact of higher capitalized drilling costs from prior years and higher production volumes compared to the prior year. Also, we recorded an additional $17 million of depreciation, depletion, and amortization in the fourth quarter of 2009 primarily due to new SEC reserves reporting rules. Our proved reserves decreased primarily due to the new SEC reserves reporting rules and the related price impact; $48 million higher gathering fees primarily due to higher production volumes and the processing fees for natural gas liquids at Midstreams Willow Creek plant, which began processing in August 2009; $32 million of expense related to penalties from the early release of drilling rigs as previously discussed; $20 million of impairment costs in the Fort Worth and Arkoma basins. We recorded a $15 million impairment in 2009 related to costs of acquired unproved reserves resulting from a 2008 acquisition in the Fort Worth basin. This impairment was based on our assessment of estimated future discounted cash flows and additional information obtained from drilling and other activities in 2009. We also recorded a $5 million impairment in the Arkoma basin in 2009 related to facilities; $31 million higher exploratory expense in 2009, primarily related to $20 million of increased seismic costs and $12 million related to higher amortization and the write off of lease acquisition costs. Dry hole costs for 2009 and 2008 were $11 million and $12 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2009 we have approximately $14 million of capitalized drilling costs and $24 million of undeveloped leasehold costs related to continuing exploratory activities in the Paradox basin. The $842 million decrease in segment profit is primarily due to the 35 percent decrease in net realized average domestic prices and the other previously discussed changes in segment revenues and segment costs and expenses. 2008 vs. 2007 The increase in total segment revenues is primarily due to the following: $919 million, or 53 percent, increase in domestic production revenues reflecting $571 million associated with a 28 percent increase in net realized average prices and $348 million associated with a 20 percent increase in production volumes sold. The impact of hedge positions on increased net realized average prices includes the effect of fewer volumes hedged by fixed price contracts. The increase in production volumes reflects an increase in the number of producing wells primarily from the Piceance, Powder River, and Fort Worth basins. Production revenues in 2008 and 2007 include approximately $85 million and $53 million, respectively, related to natural gas liquids and approximately $62 million and $40 million, respectively, related to condensate. $151 million increase in revenues for gas management activities related to gas purchased from certain outside parties, which is substantially offset by a similar increase in segment costs and expenses. This increase is primarily due to increases in natural gas prices and volumes sold. $17 million favorable change related to hedge ineffectiveness due to $1 million in net unrealized gains from hedge ineffectiveness in 2008 compared to $16 million in net unrealized losses in 2007. Total segment costs and expenses increased $591 million, primarily due to the following: $202 million higher depreciation, depletion and amortization expense, primarily due to higher production volumes and increased capitalized drilling costs. $149 million increase in expenses for gas management activities related to gas purchased from certain outside parties, which is offset by a similar increase in segment revenues. 58 Table of Contents $143 million of property impairments in 2008 in the Arkoma basin. $118 million higher operating taxes primarily due to both higher average market prices and higher domestic production volumes sold and the $34 million charge related to the Wyoming severance and ad valorem tax issue. $61 million higher lease operating expenses from the increased number of producing wells primarily within the Piceance, Powder River, and Fort Worth basins combined with increased prices for well and lease service expenses and higher facility expenses. $28 million higher SGA expenses primarily due to increased staffing in support of increased drilling and operational activity, including higher compensation. The higher SGA expenses also include an increase of $11 million in bad debt expense. $17 million higher gathering expenses due to higher domestic production volumes. $17 million of expense in 2008 related to the write off of certain exploratory drilling costs for our domestic and international operations. These increases are partially offset by the $148 million gain associated with the sale of our Peru interests in 2008. The $504 million increase in segment profit is primarily due to the 28 percent increase in domestic net realized average prices and the 20 percent increase in domestic production volumes sold, partially offset by the increase in total segment costs and expenses. Gas Pipeline Overview Gas Pipelines strategy to create value focuses on maximizing the utilization of our pipeline capacity by providing high quality, low cost transportation of natural gas to large and growing markets. Gas Pipelines interstate transmission and storage activities are subject to regulation by the FERC and as such, our rates and charges for the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, and the extension, expansion or abandonment of jurisdictional facilities and accounting, among other things, are subject to regulation. The rates are established through the FERCs ratemaking process. Changes in commodity prices and volumes transported have little near term impact on revenues because the majority of cost of service is recovered through firm capacity reservation charges in transportation rates. Gas Pipeline master limited partnership At December 31, 2009, we own approximately 47.7 percent of WMZ, including 100 percent of the general partner, and incentive distribution rights. Considering the presumption of control of the general partner, we consolidate WMZ within our Gas Pipeline segment. Gas Pipelines segment profit includes 100 percent of WMZs segment profit. As previously discussed, our ownership in WMZ was affected by our 2010 restructuring transactions. Significant events of 2009 include: Completed Expansion Projects Gulfstream Phase IV In September 2007, our 50 percent owned equity investee, Gulfstream, received FERC approval to construct 17.8 miles of 20 inch pipeline and to install a new compressor facility. The pipeline expansion was placed into service in the fourth quarter of 2008, and the compressor facility was placed into service in January 2009. The expansion increased capacity by 155 Mdt/d. Gulfstreams cost of this project is $190 million. 59 Table of Contents Sentinel In August 2008, we received FERC approval to construct an expansion in the northeast United States. The cost of the project is estimated to be $229 million. We placed Phase I into service in December 2008 increasing capacity by 40 Mdt/d. Phase II provided an additional 102 Mdt/d and was placed into service in November 2009. Colorado Hub Connection In April 2009, we received approval from the FERC to construct a 27 mile pipeline to provide increased access to the Rockies natural gas supplies. Construction began in June 2009 and the project was placed into service in November 2009. We combined lateral capacity with existing mainline capacity to provide approximately 363 Mdt/d of firm transportation from various receipt points for delivery to Ignacio, Colorado. The estimated cost of the project is $60 million. In progress Expansion Projects Mobile Bay South In May 2009, we received approval from the FERC to construct a compression facility in Alabama allowing transportation service to various southbound delivery points. The cost of the project is estimated to be $37 million. The estimated project in service date is May 2010 and will increase capacity by 253 Mdt/d. 85 North In September 2009, we received approval from the FERC to construct an expansion of our existing natural gas transmission system from Alabama to various delivery points as far north as North Carolina. The cost of the project is estimated to be $241 million. Phase I service is anticipated to begin in July 2010 and will increase capacity by 90 Mdt/d. Phase II service is anticipated to begin in May 2011 and will increase capacity by 218 Mdt/d. Mobile Bay South II In November 2009, we filed an application with the FERC to construct additional compression facilities and modifications to existing facilities in Alabama allowing transportation service to various southbound delivery points. The cost of the project is estimated to be $36 million. The estimated project in service date is May 2011 and will increase capacity by 380 Mdt/d. Sundance Trail In November 2009, we received approval from the FERC to construct approximately 16 miles of 30 inch pipeline between our existing compressor stations in Wyoming. The project also includes an upgrade to our existing compressor station and is estimated to cost $65 million. The estimated in service date is November 2010 and will increase capacity by 150 Mdt/d. Outlook for 2010 In addition to the various in progress expansion projects previously discussed, we have several other proposed projects to meet customer demands. Subject to regulatory approvals, construction of some of these projects could begin as early as 2010. Year Over Year Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 1,591 $ 1,634 $ 1,610 Segment profit $ 667 $ 689 $ 673 60 Table of Contents 2009 vs. 2008 Segment revenues decreased primarily due to a $53 million decrease in revenues from lower transportation imbalance settlements in 2009 compared to 2008 (offset in costs and operating expenses), partially offset by a $17 million increase in other service revenues and expansion projects placed into service by Transco. Costs and operating expenses decreased $27 million, or 3 percent, primarily due to a $53 million decrease in costs associated with lower transportation imbalance settlements in 2009 compared to 2008 (offset in segment revenues) and $11 million of income from an adjustment of state franchise taxes. Partially offsetting these decreases is a $13 million increase in depreciation expense due primarily to projects placed into service, a $10 million increase in transportation related fuel expense resulting from less favorable recovery from customers due to pricing differences, and $7 million higher employee related expenses. SGA increased $6 million, or 4 percent, primarily due to an increase in pension expense. Other (income) expense net reflects the absence of a $10 million gain on the sale of certain south Texas assets and a $9 million gain on the sale of excess inventory gas, both of which were recorded by Transco in 2008. Partially offsetting these unfavorable changes is $16 million lower project development costs in 2009. Segment profit decreased primarily due to the previously described changes, partially offset by higher equity earnings from Gulfstream. 2008 vs. 2007 Segment revenues increased primarily due to a $52 million increase in transportation revenues resulting primarily from Transcos new rates, which were approved by the FERC as part of a general rate case and became effective March 2007, and expansion projects that Transco placed into service in the fourth quarter of 2007. In addition, segment revenues increased $28 million due to transportation imbalance settlements (offset in costs and operating expenses). Partially offsetting these increases is the absence of $59 million associated with a 2007 sale of excess inventory gas (offset in costs and operating expenses). Costs and operating expenses decreased $11 million, or 1 percent, primarily due to the absence of $59 million associated with a 2007 sale of excess inventory gas (offset in segment revenues). The decrease is partially offset by an increase in costs of $28 million associated with transportation imbalance settlements (offset in segment revenues) and higher rental expense related to the Parachute lateral that was transferred to Midstream in December 2007. Other (income) expense net changed unfavorably by $31 million primarily due to the absence of $18 million of income recognized in 2007 associated with payments received for a terminated firm transportation agreement on Northwest Pipelines Grays Harbor lateral and the absence of $17 million of income recorded in 2007 for a change in estimate related to a regulatory liability at Northwest Pipeline. In addition, project development costs were $21 million higher in 2008. Partially offsetting these unfavorable changes is a $10 million gain on the sale of certain south Texas assets, and a $9 million gain on the sale of excess inventory gas, both of which were recorded by Transco in 2008. The increase in segment profit is primarily due to the previously described changes and higher equity earnings from Gulfstream. Midstream Gas Liquids Overview of 2009 Midstreams ongoing strategy is to safely and reliably operate large scale midstream infrastructure where our assets can be fully utilized and drive low per unit costs. We focus on consistently attracting new business by providing highly reliable service to our customers. 61 Table of Contents Significant events during 2009 include the following: Cameron Meadows Plant In November 2009, we sold our Cameron Meadows plant and recognized a pre tax gain of $40 million. This plant sustained hurricane damage twice in recent years and is, therefore, considered incongruent with our strategy of providing the most reliable service in the industry. Willow Creek The Willow Creek facility in western Colorado began processing natural gas production and extracting NGLs in early August and achieved full processing operations in September. Currently, the 450 million cubic feet per day (MMcf/d) gas processing plant primarily processes Exploration Productions wellhead production, has a peak capacity of 30,000 barrels of NGLs per day, and is recovering approximately 20,000 barrels per day. In the current processing arrangement with Exploration Production, Midstream receives a volumetric based processing fee and a percent of the NGLs extracted. Laurel Mountain Midstream, LLC In June 2009, we completed the formation of a new joint venture in the Marcellus Shale located in southwest Pennsylvania. Our partner in the venture contributed its existing Appalachian basin gathering system, which currently has an average throughput of approximately 100 MMcf/d. In exchange for a 51 percent interest in the venture, we contributed $100 million and issued a $26 million note payable. We account for this investment under the equity method due to the significant participatory rights of our partner such that we do not control the investment. We have transitioned operational control from our partner to us. Venezuela In May 2009, the Venezuelan government expropriated the El Furrial and PIGAP II assets that we operated in Venezuela. As a result, these operations are now reflected as discontinued operations for all periods presented and are no longer included in Midstreams results. Our investment in Accroven, whose assets have not been expropriated, is still included within Midstream and reflects a first quarter 2009 impairment charge of $75 million. (See Notes 2 and 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion.) Volatile commodity prices NGL prices, especially ethane prices, have generally improved during 2009, following significant declines in the fourth quarter of 2008 as a result of the weakened economy. Our NGL margins also benefited from a period of declining natural gas prices during 2009. While average annual per unit NGL margins in 2009 were still significantly lower than 2008, they improved during 2009 to levels currently above the rolling five year average per unit margin. We continued to benefit from favorable natural gas price differentials in the Rocky Mountain area, although the differentials narrowed during 2009. These differentials contributed to realized per unit margins that were generally greater than that of the industry benchmarks for natural gas processed in the Henry Hub area and for liquids fractionated and sold at Mont Belvieu, Texas. NGL margins are defined as NGL revenues less any applicable BTU replacement cost, plant fuel, and third party transportation and fractionation. Per unit NGL margins are calculated based on sales of our own equity volumes at the processing plants. 62 Table of Contents Domestic Gathering and Processing Per Unit NGL Margin with Production and Sales Volumes by Quarter (excludes partially owned plants) Hurricane Impact to Insurance Coverage While our insurance expense has increased modestly in 2009 compared to 2008, the overall level of coverage on our offshore assets in the Gulf Coast region against named windstorm events has substantially decreased, including the absence of coverage on certain of our assets. (See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Williams Partners L.P. As of December 31, 2009, we own approximately 23.6 percent of Williams Partners L.P., including 100 percent of the general partner and incentive distribution rights. Considering the presumption of control of the general partner, we consolidate Williams Partners L.P. within the Midstream segment. (See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Midstreams segment profit includes 100 percent of Williams Partners L.P.s segment profit. As previously discussed, our ownership in Williams Partners L.P. and our future segment reporting structure were affected by our 2010 restructuring transactions. Outlook for 2010 The following factors could impact our business in 2010. Commodity price changes NGL, crude and natural gas prices are highly volatile and difficult to predict. However, we expect per unit NGL margins in 2010 to be higher than our average per unit margins in 2009 and our rolling five year average per unit NGL margins. NGL, crude and natural gas prices are highly volatile. NGL price changes have historically tracked somewhat with changes in the price of crude oil. Margins in our NGL and olefins business are highly dependent upon continued demand within the global economy. Although forecasted domestic and global demand for polyethylene, or plastics, has been impacted by the weakness in the global economy, NGL products are currently the preferred feedstock for ethylene and propylene production, which are the building blocks of polyethylene. Propylene and ethylene production processes have increasingly shifted from the more expensive crude based feedstocks to NGL based feedstocks. Bolstered by abundant long term domestic natural gas supplies, we expect to benefit from these dynamics in the broader global petrochemical markets. As 63 Table of Contents natural gas pipeline transportation capacity increases in the Rocky Mountain area, we anticipate that historically favorable natural gas price differentials will decline. In our olefin production business, we anticipate margins in 2010 to show an improvement over 2009, similarly benefiting from the dynamics discussed above. As part of our efforts to manage commodity price risks on an enterprise basis, we continue to evaluate our commodity hedging strategies. To reduce the exposure to changes in market prices, we have entered into NGL swap agreements to fix the prices of a small portion of our anticipated NGL sales for 2010. In addition, we have entered into financial contracts to fix the price of a portion of our shrink gas requirements for 2010. Gathering, processing, and NGL sales volumes The growth of natural gas supplies supporting our gathering and processing volumes are impacted by producer drilling activities. Our customers are generally large producers and we have not experienced and do not anticipate an overall significant decline in volumes due to reduced drilling activity. In the West, we expect higher fee revenues, NGL volumes, depreciation expense and operating expenses in 2010 compared to 2009 as our Willow Creek facility moves into a full year of operation, and our expansion at Echo Springs is completed late in 2010. We expect fee revenues, NGL volumes, depreciation expense, and operating expenses in our offshore Gulf Coast region to increase from 2009 levels as our new Perdido Norte expansion begins start up operations in the first quarter of 2010. Increases from our Perdido Norte expansion are expected to be partially offset by lower volumes in other Gulf Coast areas due to expected changes in gas processing contracts, as described below, and natural declines. Certain of our gas processing contracts contain provisions that allow customers to periodically elect processing services on either a fee basis, keep whole, or percent of liquids basis. If customers switch from keep whole to fee based processing, this would reduce our NGL equity sales volumes. Allocation of capital to expansion projects We expect to spend $500 million to $750 million in 2010 on capital projects. The ongoing major expansion projects include: The Perdido Norte project, in the western deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico, which includes an expansion of our Markham gas processing facility and oil and gas lines that will expand the scale of our existing infrastructure. Significant milestones have been reached and, considering the progress of our customers drilling and tie in construction, we expect this project to begin start up operations in the first quarter of 2010. Additional processing and NGL production capacities at our Echo Springs facility and related gathering system expansions in the Wamsutter area of Wyoming, which we expect to be in service at the end of 2010. We expect to begin construction in 2010 on a 12 inch pipeline in Canada, which will transport recovered natural gas liquids and olefins from our extraction plant in Ft. McMurray to our Redwater fractionation facility. The pipeline will have sufficient capacity to transport additional recovered liquids in excess of those from our current agreements. We anticipate an in service date in 2012. In conjunction with a long term agreement with a major producer, we will construct and operate a 28 mile natural gas gathering pipeline in the Marcellus Shale region that will deliver to the Transco pipeline. Construction is expected to begin on the 20 inch pipeline in the latter part of 2010, and it is expected to be placed into service during 2011. In addition to our initial investment, we intend to invest additional capital within our Laurel Mountain joint venture to grow the existing gathering infrastructure in 2010 and beyond. 64 Table of Contents Year Over Year Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 3,588 $ 5,180 $ 4,933 Segment profit (loss): Domestic gathering processing $ 637 $ 841 $ 897 NGL marketing, olefins and other 162 113 174 Venezuela (68 ) 12 11 Indirect general and administrative expense (91 ) (95 ) (88 ) Total $ 640 $ 871 $ 994 In order to provide additional clarity, our managements discussion and analysis of operating results separately reflects the portion of general and administrative expense not allocated to an asset group as indirect general and administrative expense. These charges represent any overhead cost not directly attributable to one of the specific asset groups noted in this discussion. 2009 vs. 2008 The decrease in segment revenues is largely due to: A $716 million decrease in revenues associated with the production of NGLs primarily due to lower average NGL prices. A $457 million decrease in revenues in our olefins production business primarily due to lower average product prices, partially offset by higher volumes. A $438 million decrease in marketing revenues primarily due to lower average NGL and crude prices, partially offset by higher NGL volumes. These decreases are partially offset by a $52 million increase in fee revenues primarily due to higher volumes resulting from connecting new supplies in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico in the latter part of 2008 and new fees for processing Exploration Productions natural gas production at Willow Creek. Segment costs and expenses decreased $1,443 million, or 33 percent, primarily as a result of: A $586 million decrease in marketing purchases primarily due to lower average NGL and crude prices, including the absence of a $19 million charge in 2008 to write down the value of NGL and olefin inventories, partially offset by higher NGL volumes. A $445 million decrease in costs in our olefins production business primarily due to lower per unit feedstock costs, including the absence of an $11 million charge in 2008 to write down the value of olefin inventories, partially offset by higher volumes. A $435 million decrease in costs associated with the production of NGLs primarily due to lower average natural gas prices. A $40 million gain on the 2009 sale of our Cameron Meadows processing plant. The absence of $17 million of charges in 2008 related to an impairment, asset abandonments, and asset retirement obligations. These decreases are partially offset by: A $39 million unfavorable change due primarily to foreign currency exchange gains in 2008 related to the revaluation of current assets held in U.S. dollars within our Canadian operations. 65 Table of Contents The absence of $32 million of income in 2008 related to the partial settlement of our Gulf Liquids litigation (see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The decrease in Midstreams segment profit reflects the previously described changes in segment revenues and segment costs and expenses and a $75 million loss from investment related to the impairment of our investment in Accroven. A more detailed analysis of the segment profit of certain Midstream operations is presented as follows. Domestic gathering processing The decrease in domestic gathering processing segment profit includes a $193 million decrease in the West region and an $11 million decrease in the Gulf Coast region. The decrease in our West regions segment profit includes: A $213 million decrease in NGL margins due to a significant decrease in average NGL prices, partially offset by a significant decrease in production costs reflecting lower natural gas prices. NGL equity volumes were slightly higher as both periods were impacted by significant volume changes. Current year volumes include the unfavorable impact of certain producers electing to convert, in accordance with those gas processing agreements, from keep whole to fee based processing at the beginning of 2009. Prior year NGL equity volumes sold were unusually low primarily due to an increase in inventory as we transitioned from product sales at the plant to shipping volumes through a pipeline for sale downstream, lower ethane recoveries to accommodate restrictions on the volume of NGLs we could deliver into the pipelines, and hurricane related disruptions at a third party fractionation facility at Mont Belvieu, Texas, which resulted in an NGL inventory build up. Lower NGL transportation costs in the West region due to the transition from our previous shipping arrangement to transportation on the Overland Pass pipeline also favorably impacted NGL margins in 2009. An $8 million decrease in involuntary conversion gains related to our Ignacio plant. These insurance recoveries in both years were used to rebuild the plant. A $39 million increase in fee revenues primarily due to new fees for processing Exploration Productions natural gas production at Willow Creek, unusually low gathering and processing volumes in the first quarter of 2008 related to severe winter weather conditions, and producers converting from keep whole to fee based processing in the first quarter of 2009. The decrease in the Gulf Coast regions segment profit includes: A $68 million decrease in NGL margins reflecting lower average NGL prices and lower volumes. Lower production costs reflecting lower natural gas prices partially offset these decreases. Both periods were impacted by unfavorable volume changes. Current year volumes include the unfavorable impact of periods of reduced NGL recoveries during the first quarter due to unfavorable NGL economics and natural declines in production sources. Prior year volumes were unusually low primarily due to periods of reduced NGL recoveries during the fourth quarter and as a result of hurricanes in the third quarter. A $40 million gain in 2009 on the sale of our Cameron Meadows processing plant, partially offset by the absence of a $5 million involuntary conversion gain in 2008 related to our Cameron Meadows plant. $26 million higher fee revenues primarily due to higher volumes resulting from connecting new supplies in the Blind Faith prospect in the deepwater in the latter part of 2008. The absence of $16 million of charges in 2008 related to an impairment, asset abandonments, and asset retirement obligations. An $11 million increase in depreciation primarily due to our Blind Faith pipeline extensions that came into service during the latter part of 2008. 66 Table of Contents NGL marketing, olefins and other The significant components of the increase in segment profit of our other operations include: $138 million in higher margins related to the marketing of NGLs and olefins primarily due to favorable changes in pricing while product was in transit during 2009 as compared to significant unfavorable changes in pricing while product was in transit in 2008 and the absence of a $19 million charge in 2008 to write down the value of NGL and olefin inventories. A $41 million unfavorable change primarily due to foreign currency exchange gains in 2008 related to the revaluation of current assets held in U.S. dollars within our Canadian operations. The absence of $32 million of income in 2008 related to the partial settlement of our Gulf Liquids litigation. $12 million in lower margins in our olefins production business primarily due to lower average prices, partially offset by lower per unit feedstock costs, including the absence of an $11 million charge in 2008 to write down the value of olefin inventories, and higher volumes in 2009 related to the impact of third party operational issues in 2008 that reduced off gas supplies to our plant in Canada. The absence of an $8 million gain recognized in 2008 related to a final earn out payment on a 2005 asset sale. Venezuela The decrease in segment profit for our Venezuela operations primarily reflects the previously discussed $75 million loss from investment related to Accroven. 2008 vs. 2007 The increase in segment revenues is largely due to: A $210 million increase in revenues in our olefins production business primarily due to higher average product prices and also to higher volumes sold associated with the increase of our ownership interest in the Geismar olefins facility effective July 2007. A $163 million increase in revenues associated with the production of NGLs primarily due to higher average NGL prices, partially offset by lower volumes. Lower volumes resulted from reduced ethane recoveries at the plants during the third and fourth quarters of 2008 compared to higher volumes during 2007 as we transitioned from shipping volumes through a pipeline for sale downstream to product sales at the plant. A $50 million increase in fee based revenues primarily due to the West region, the deepwater Gulf Coast region and at our Conway fractionation and storage facilities. These increases are partially offset by a $194 million decrease in marketing revenues primarily due to lower volumes, partially offset by higher prices. Segment costs and expenses increased $368 million, or 9 percent, primarily as a result of: A $213 million increase in costs in our olefins production business due to higher feedstock prices and also to higher volumes produced associated with the increase of our ownership interest in the Geismar olefins facility effective July 2007. The increase also includes a $10 million higher charge to write down the value of olefin inventories. A $191 million increase in costs associated with the production of NGLs primarily due to higher average natural gas prices. A $100 million increase in operating costs including higher depreciation, repair costs and property insurance deductibles related to the hurricanes, gas transportation expenses in the eastern Gulf of Mexico, 67 Table of Contents employee costs, and higher costs associated with the increase of our ownership interest in the Geismar olefins facility. These increases are partially offset by: A $68 million decrease in marketing purchases primarily due to lower volumes, partially offset by higher average NGL and crude prices and a $19 million charge in 2008 to write down the value of NGL and olefin inventories. A $49 million favorable change related to foreign currency exchange gains primarily due to the revaluation of current assets held in U.S. dollars within our Canadian operations. $32 million of income in 2008 related to the partial settlement of our Gulf Liquids litigation. A $16 million favorable change due to higher involuntary conversion gains in 2008 related to insurance recoveries in excess of the carrying value of our Ignacio and Cameron Meadows plants. The decrease in Midstreams segment profit reflects the previously described changes in segment revenues and segment costs and expenses. A more detailed analysis of the segment profit of certain Midstream operations is presented as follows. Domestic gathering processing The decrease in domestic gathering processing segment profit includes a $49 million decrease in the West region and a $7 million decrease in the Gulf Coast region. The decrease in our West regions segment profit includes: A $45 million decrease in NGL margins due to a significant increase in costs associated with the production of NGLs reflecting higher natural gas prices and lower volumes sold. The decrease in volumes sold is primarily due to restricted transportation capacity, unfavorable ethane economics, an increase in inventory during 2008, hurricane related disruptions at a third party fractionation facility, and lower equity volumes as processing agreements change from keep whole to fee based. These decreases were partially offset by a full year of production from the fifth train at our Opal processing plant, which began production in the first quarter of 2007. A $35 million increase in operating costs driven by higher turbine and engine overhaul expenses, depreciation expense and employee costs. The absence of a $12 million favorable litigation outcome in 2007. A $24 million increase in fee revenues including new lease revenues from Gas Pipeline for the Parachute lateral transferred to Midstream in December 2007. A $12 million involuntary conversion gain in 2008 related to our Ignacio plant. These insurance recoveries were used to rebuild the plant. The decrease in the Gulf Coast regions segment profit is primarily due to $39 million higher operating costs including higher depreciation, gas transportation expenses and hurricane repair and property insurance deductibles. These increased expenses are partially offset by $18 million higher NGL margins and $8 million higher fee revenues primarily due to connecting new supplies in the deepwater. NGL marketing, olefins and other The significant components of the decrease in segment profit of our other operations include: $123 million in lower margins related to the marketing of NGLs and olefins primarily due to the impact of a significant and rapid decline in NGL and olefin prices during the fourth quarter of 2008 on a higher volume of product inventory in transit. This also includes a $19 million charge in 2008 to write down the value of NGL and olefin inventories. 68 Table of Contents $33 million higher operating costs including higher costs associated with the increase of our ownership interest in the Geismar olefins facility effective July 2007 and hurricane damage repair expense at the Geismar plant. A $56 million favorable change in foreign currency exchange gains related to the revaluation of current assets held in U.S. dollars within our Canadian operations. $32 million of income in 2008 related to the partial settlement of our Gulf Liquids litigation. Gas Marketing Services Gas Marketing Services (Gas Marketing) primarily supports our natural gas businesses by providing marketing and risk management services, which include marketing and hedging the gas produced by Exploration Production and procuring the majority of fuel and shrink gas and hedging natural gas liquids sales for Midstream. Gas Marketing also provides similar services to third parties, such as producers and natural gas processors. In addition, Gas Marketing manages various natural gas related contracts such as transportation and storage along with the related hedges, including certain legacy natural gas contracts and positions. We do not expect our future segment profit will be significantly impacted by these legacy contracts and positions. Overview of 2009 Gas Marketings operating results for 2009 are unfavorable compared to 2008 primarily due to lower realized margins on our storage contracts. This decline was partially offset by reduced net losses on proprietary trading and legacy contracts and lower adjustments to the carrying value of our natural gas storage inventory. Outlook for 2010 For 2010, Gas Marketing will focus on providing services that support our natural gas businesses. Gas Marketings earnings may continue to reflect mark to market volatility from commodity based derivatives that represent economic hedges but are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes or do not qualify for hedge accounting. Year Over Year Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (Millions) Realized revenues $ 3,031 $ 6,385 $ 4,948 Net forward unrealized mark to market gains (losses) 21 27 (315 ) Segment revenues $ 3,052 $ 6,412 $ 4,633 Segment profit (loss) $ (18 ) $ 3 $ (337 ) 2009 vs. 2008 Realized revenues represent (1) revenue from the sale of natural gas and (2) gains and losses from the net financial settlement of derivative contracts. The decrease in realized revenues is primarily due to a decrease in physical natural gas revenue as a result of a 53 percent decrease in average prices on physical natural gas sales, slightly offset by a 3 percent increase in natural gas sales volumes. This decline in realized revenues is primarily related to both gas sales associated with our transportation and storage contracts and gas sales associated with marketing Exploration Productions natural gas volumes. A corresponding decline in segment costs and expenses occurred in 2009. Net forward unrealized mark to market gains (losses) primarily represent changes in the fair values of certain derivative contracts with a future settlement or delivery date that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes or do not qualify for hedge accounting. The decrease in net forward unrealized mark to market gains 69 Table of Contents (losses) is primarily related to the absence of a $10 million favorable impact in 2008 for the initial consideration of our own nonperformance risk in estimating the fair value of our derivative liabilities. Total segment costs and expenses decreased $3,339 million, primarily due to a 54 percent decrease in average prices on physical natural gas purchases, slightly offset by a 3 percent increase in natural gas purchase volumes. This decrease is primarily related to the previously discussed gas purchases associated with both our transportation and storage contracts and gas purchases from Exploration and Production. This decline also includes a lower adjustment to the carrying value of natural gas inventory in storage. These adjustments totaled $7 million in 2009 compared to $35 million in 2008. The unfavorable change in segment profit (loss) is primarily due to a decline in realized margins on our storage contracts partially offset by lower adjustments to the carrying value of our natural gas storage inventory and reduced net losses on proprietary trading and legacy contracts. 2008 vs. 2007 The increase in realized revenues is primarily due to an increase in physical natural gas revenue as a result of a 26 percent increase in average prices on physical natural gas sales. This is slightly offset by a decrease related to net financial settlements of derivative contracts. The favorable change in net forward unrealized mark to market gains (losses) includes the effect of a $156 million loss realized in December 2007 related to a legacy derivative natural gas sales contract. We had previously accounted for this contract on an accrual basis under the normal purchases and normal sales exception. We discontinued normal purchase and normal sales treatment because it was no longer probable that the contract would not be net settled. In addition, 2008 reflects favorable price movements on our derivative positions executed to hedge the anticipated withdrawal of natural gas from storage. Total segment costs and expenses increased $1,439 million, primarily due to a 33 percent increase in average prices on physical natural gas purchases. These increases were partially offset by the absence of a $20 million accrual for litigation contingencies in 2007. The favorable change in segment profit (loss) is primarily due to the favorable change in net forward unrealized mark to market gains (losses), which includes the absence of a 2007 loss recognized on a legacy derivative natural gas sales contract. The favorable change in segment profit (loss) also reflects the absence of a $20 million accrual for litigation contingencies in 2007, partially offset by a decline in accrual earnings. Other Year Over Year Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 27 $ 24 $ 26 Segment loss $ (1 ) $ (3 ) $ (1 ) The results of our Other segment are relatively comparable for all periods presented. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Liquidity Overview In 2009, we continued to focus upon growth through disciplined investments in our natural gas businesses. Examples of this growth included: Continued investment in Exploration Productions development drilling programs, as well as the acquisition of additional producing properties and our initial entry into the Marcellus Shale area. 70 Table of Contents Expansion of Gas Pipelines interstate natural gas pipeline system to meet the demand of growth markets. Continued investment in Midstreams Deepwater Gulf expansion projects and gas processing capacity in the western United States and our initial entry into the Marcellus Shale area. These investments were primarily funded through our cash flow from operations, which totaled nearly $2.6 billion for 2009. During 2009, global credit markets experienced significant instability, markets witnessed significant reductions in value, and energy commodity prices experienced significant and rapid declines. In consideration of our liquidity under these conditions, we note the following: We reduced our levels of capital expenditures. As of December 31, 2009, we have approximately $1.9 billion of cash and cash equivalents and approximately $2.1 billion of available credit capacity under our credit facilities. Our $1.5 billion credit facility does not expire until May 2012. Additionally, Exploration Production has an unsecured credit agreement that serves to reduce our margin requirements related to our hedging activities. (See additional discussion in the following Available Liquidity section.) We have no significant debt maturities until 2011. Our credit exposure to derivative counterparties is partially mitigated by master netting agreements and collateral support. (See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Strategic Restructuring On February 17, 2010, we completed a strategic restructuring, which involved contributing a substantial majority of our domestic midstream and gas pipeline businesses, including our limited and general partner interests in Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. (WMZ), into Williams Partners L.P. (WPZ). We initially own approximately 84 percent of Williams Partners L.P., up from 24 percent of current partnership. Our total ownership percentage will decline to approximately 80 percent assuming the successful completion of the exchange offer for all of WMZs publicly held units. See Strategic Restructuring in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10 K for further discussion of this potential exchange offer. We intend to hold our limited partner and general partner units for the long term. As consideration for the asset contributions, we received proceeds from WPZs debt issuance of approximately $3.5 billion, less WPZs transaction fees and expenses, as well as 203 million WPZ Class C units, which are identical to common units, except for a prorated initial distribution. We also maintained our 2 percent general partner interest. WPZ assumed approximately $2 billion of existing debt associated with the gas pipeline assets. In connection with the restructuring, we retired $3 billion of our debt and paid $574 million in related premiums. These amounts, as well as other transaction costs, were primarily funded with the cash consideration we received from WPZ. As a result of our restructuring, we are better positioned to drive additional growth and pursue value adding growth strategies. Our new structure is designed to lower capital costs, enhance reliable access to capital markets, and create a greater ability to pursue development projects and acquisitions. (See Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Outlook For 2010, we expect operating results and cash flows to improve from 2009 levels due to the impact of expected higher energy commodity prices. Lower than expected energy commodity prices would be somewhat mitigated by certain of our cash flow streams that are substantially insulated from changes in commodity prices as follows: Firm demand and capacity reservation transportation revenues under long term contracts from Gas Pipeline; Hedged natural gas sales at Exploration Production related to a significant portion of its production; Fee based revenues from certain gathering and processing services at Midstream. 71 Table of Contents We believe we have, or have access to, the financial resources and liquidity necessary to meet our requirements for working capital, capital and investment expenditures, and debt payments while maintaining a sufficient level of liquidity. In particular, we note the following assumptions for the coming year: We expect to maintain liquidity of at least $1 billion from cash and cash equivalents and unused revolving credit facilities. We expect to fund capital and investment expenditures, debt payments, dividends, and working capital requirements primarily through cash flow from operations, cash and cash equivalents on hand, utilization of our revolving credit facilities, and proceeds from debt issuances and sales of equity securities as needed. Based on a range of market assumptions, we currently estimate our cash flow from operations will be between $2.2 billion and $2.975 billion in 2010. We expect capital and investment expenditures to total between $2.05 billion and $2.775 billion in 2010. Of this total, approximately 64 percent is considered nondiscretionary to meet legal, regulatory, and or contractual requirements, to fund committed growth projects or to preserve the value of existing assets. Potential risks associated with our planned levels of liquidity and the planned capital and investment expenditures discussed above include: Lower than expected levels of cash flow from operations; Sustained reductions in energy commodity prices from the range of current expectations. Liquidity Based on our forecasted levels of cash flow from operations and other sources of liquidity, we expect to have sufficient liquidity to manage our businesses in 2010. Our internal and external sources of liquidity include cash generated from our operations, cash and cash equivalents on hand, and our credit facilities. Additional sources of liquidity, if needed, include bank financings, proceeds from the issuance of long term debt and equity securities, and proceeds from asset sales. These sources are available to us at the parent level and may be available to certain of our subsidiaries, including equity and debt issuances from Williams Partners L.P. Our ability to raise funds in the capital markets will be impacted by our financial condition, interest rates, market conditions, and industry conditions. Available Liquidity Credit Facilities Year Ended Expiration December 31,2009 (Millions) Cash and cash equivalents(1) $ 1,867 Available capacity under our unsecured revolving and letter of credit facilities: $700 million facilities(2) October 2010 480 $1.5 billion facility(3) May 2012 1,430 Available capacity under Williams Partners L.P.s $200 million senior unsecured credit facility(3) December 2012 188 $ 3,965 (1) Cash and cash equivalents includes $31 million of funds received from third parties as collateral. The obligation for these amounts is reported as accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Also included is $648 million of cash and cash equivalents that is being utilized by certain subsidiary and international operations. The remainder of our cash and cash equivalents is primarily held in government backed instruments. (2) These facilities were originated primarily in support of our former power business. 72 Table of Contents (3) At December 31, 2009, we are in compliance with the financial covenants associated with these credit agreements. These credit facilities were impacted by our previously discussed restructuring transactions. Williams Partners L.P. established a new $1.75 billion, three year, senior unsecured revolving credit facility, which replaces its previous $450 million credit facility (which was comprised of a $250 million term loan and a $200 million revolving credit facility). The full amount of the new credit facility is available to Williams Partners L.P. to the extent not otherwise utilized by Transco and Northwest Pipeline, and may be increased by up to an additional $250 million. Transco and Northwest Pipeline are co borrowers and are each able to borrow up to $400 million under this new facility to the extent not otherwise utilized. Williams Partners L.P. utilized $250 million of the new facility to repay a term loan that was outstanding under its existing facility. As Williams Partners L.P. will be funding Midstream and Gas Pipeline projects, we reduced our approximately $1.5 billion unsecured credit facility that expires May 2012 to approximately $900 million and removed Transco and Northwest Pipeline as borrowers. See the financial covenants of the new facility in Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. filed a shelf registration statement for the issuance of up to $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of debt and limited partnership unit securities. The registration statement was declared effective on August 3, 2009. Williams Partners L.P. filed a shelf registration statement as a well known, seasoned issuer in October 2009 that allows it to issue an unlimited amount of registered debt and limited partnership unit securities. At the parent company level, we filed a shelf registration statement as a well known, seasoned issuer in May 2009 that allows us to issue an unlimited amount of registered debt and equity securities. Exploration Production has an unsecured credit agreement with certain banks that, so long as certain conditions are met, serves to reduce our use of cash and other credit facilities for margin requirements related to our hedging activities as well as lower transaction fees. The agreement extends through December 2013. (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Credit Ratings Our ability to borrow money is impacted by our credit ratings and the credit ratings of WPZ. Following the closing of our 2010 restructuring, our investment grade ratings were affirmed and the ratings for WPZ were upgraded to investment grade. The current ratings are as follows: WMB WPZ Standard and Poors(1) Corporate Credit Rating BBB BBB Senior Unsecured Debt Rating BB+ BBB Outlook Positive(4) Positive(4) Moodys Investors Service(2) Senior Unsecured Debt Rating Baa3 Baa3(5) Outlook Stable Stable(6) Fitch Ratings(3) Senior Unsecured Debt Rating BBB BBB(7) Outlook Stable Stable (1) A rating of BBB or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below BBB indicates that the security has significant speculative characteristics. A BB rating indicates that Standard Poors believes the issuer has the capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation, but adverse business conditions could lead to insufficient ability to meet financial commitments. Standard Poors may modify its ratings with a + or a sign to show the obligors relative standing within a major rating category. (2) A rating of Baa or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below Baa is considered to have speculative elements. The 1, 2, and 3 modifiers show the relative standing within a major category. A 1 73 Table of Contents indicates that an obligation ranks in the higher end of the broad rating category, 2 indicates a mid range ranking, and 3 indicates the lower end of the category. (3) A rating of BBB or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below BBB is considered speculative grade. Fitch may add a + or a sign to show the obligors relative standing within a major rating category. (4) On January 12, 2010, Standard Poors revised to positive from stable. (5) On February 17, 2010, Moodys Investor Service revised to Baa3 from Ba2. (6) On February 17, 2010, Moodys Investor Service revised to stable from negative. (7) On February 2, 2010, Fitch Ratings revised to BBB from BB. Credit rating agencies perform independent analyses when assigning credit ratings. No assurance can be given that the credit rating agencies will continue to assign us investment grade ratings even if we meet or exceed their current criteria for investment grade ratios. A downgrade of our credit rating might increase our future cost of borrowing and would require us to post additional collateral with third parties, negatively impacting our available liquidity. As of December 31, 2009, we estimate that a downgrade to a rating below investment grade would require us to post up to $585 million in additional collateral with third parties. Sources (Uses) of Cash Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (Millions) Net cash provided (used) by: Operating activities $ 2,572 $ 3,355 $ 2,237 Financing activities 166 (432 ) (511 ) Investing activities (2,310 ) (3,183 ) (2,296 ) Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 428 $ (260 ) $ (570 ) Operating activities Our net cash provided by operating activities in 2009 decreased from 2008 primarily due to the decrease in our operating results. Significant transactions in 2008 include: We received $140 million of cash related to a favorable resolution of matters involving pipeline transportation rates associated with our former Alaska operations. (See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Transco paid $144 million of required refunds related to a general rate case with the FERC. (See Results of Operations Segments, Gas Pipeline.) Our net cash provided by operating activities in 2008 increased from 2007 primarily due to the increase in our earnings. Financing activities Significant transactions include: 2009 We received $595 million net cash from the issuance of $600 million aggregate principal amount of 8.75 percent senior unsecured notes due 2020 to fund general corporate expenses and capital expenditures. (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) We paid $256 million of quarterly dividends on common stock for the year ended December 31, 2009. 74 Table of Contents 2008 We received $362 million from the completion of the Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. initial public offering. We paid $474 million for the repurchase of our common stock. (See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Gas Pipeline received $75 million net proceeds from debt transactions. We paid $250 million of quarterly dividends on common stock for the year ended December 31, 2008. 2007 We paid $526 million for the repurchase of our common stock. (See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) We repurchased $22 million of our 8.125 percent senior unsecured notes due March 2012 and $213 million of our 7.125 percent senior unsecured notes due September 2011. Early retirement premiums paid were approximately $19 million. Northwest Pipeline issued $185 million of 5.95 percent senior unsecured notes due 2017 and retired $175 million of 8.125 percent senior unsecured notes due 2010. Early retirement premiums paid were approximately $7 million. Williams Partners L.P. acquired certain of our membership interests in Wamsutter LLC, the limited liability company that owns the Wamsutter system, from us for $750 million. Williams Partners L.P. completed the transaction after successfully closing a public equity offering of 9.25 million common units that yielded net proceeds of approximately $335 million. The partnership financed the remainder of the purchase price primarily through utilizing $250 million term loan borrowings under their $450 million five year senior unsecured credit facility and issuing approximately $157 million of common units to us. We paid $233 million of quarterly dividends on common stock for the year ended December 31, 2007. Investing activities 2009 Capital expenditures totaled $2.4 billion, more than half of which related to Exploration Production. Included was a $253 million payment by Exploration Production for the purchase of additional properties in the Piceance basin. (See Results of Operations Segments, Exploration Production.) We received $148 million as a distribution from Gulfstream following its debt offering. We contributed $142 million to our investments, including $106 million related to our Laurel Mountain equity investment and $20 million related to our Gulfstream equity investment. 2008 Capital expenditures totaled $3.4 billion and was primarily related to Exploration Productions drilling activity. This total includes Exploration Productions acquisitions of certain interests in the Piceance and Fort Worth basins. We received $148 million of cash from Exploration Productions sale of a contractual right to a production payment. We contributed $111 million to our investments, including $90 million related to our Gulfstream equity investment. 75 Table of Contents 2007 Capital expenditures totaled $2.9 billion and was primarily related to Exploration Productions drilling activity, mostly in the Piceance basin. We received $496 million of gross proceeds from the sale of substantially all of our power business. We purchased $304 million and received $353 million from the sale of auction rate securities. These were utilized as a component of our overall cash management program. Off Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements and Guarantees of Debt or Other Commitments We have various other guarantees and commitments which are disclosed in Notes 9, 10, 11, 15, and 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We do not believe these guarantees or the possible fulfillment of them will prevent us from meeting our liquidity needs. Contractual Obligations The table below summarizes the maturity dates of our contractual obligations, including obligations related to discontinued operations. 2011 2013 2010 2012 2014 Thereafter Total (Millions) Long term debt, including current portion: Principal(1) $ 15 $ 2,139 $ $ 6,155 $ 8,309 Interest 619 1,113 938 4,273 6,943 Capital leases 2 1 3 Operating leases 70 64 45 138 317 Purchase obligations(2) 1,147 1,728 1,474 3,621 7,970 Other long term liabilities, including current portion: Physical and financial derivatives(3)(4 ) 418 287 125 62 892 Other(5)(6) Total $ 2,271 $ 5,331 $ 2,583 $ 14,249 $ 24,434 (1) In February 2010, we completed our strategic restructuring and retired $3 billion of aggregate principal corporate debt and issued $3.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes of WPZ. Additionally, WPZ established a new $1.75 billion three year unsecured revolving credit facility which replaces its previous $450 million credit facility. WPZ utilized $250 million of the new facility to repay a term loan that was outstanding under the previous facility. Williams has reduced its existing $1.5 billion unsecured 76 Table of Contents revolving credit facility, which matures in May 2012, to $900 million. The below table shows the impact by period of this transaction: 2011 2013 2010 2012 2014 Thereafter Total (Millions) Long term debt, including current portion: Retirement of $3 billion of aggregate principle corporate debt $ $ (1,030 ) $ $ (1,970 ) $ (3,000 ) Issuance of the $3.5 billion WPZ senior notes 3,500 3,500 Retirement of the $250 million term loan under WPZs $450 million credit facility (250 ) (250 ) Issuance of $250 million term loan under WPZs new $1.75 billion credit facility 250 250 Total $ $ (1,280 ) $ 250 $ 1,530 $ 500 (2) Includes $3.2 billion of natural gas purchase obligations at market prices at our Exploration Production segment. The purchased natural gas can be sold at market prices. (3) The obligations for physical and financial derivatives are based on market information as of December 31, 2009, and assumes contracts remain outstanding for their full contractual duration. Because market information changes daily and has the potential to be volatile, significant changes to the values in this category may occur. (4) Expected offsetting cash inflows of $3.9 billion at December 31, 2009, resulting from product sales or net positive settlements, are not reflected in these amounts. In addition, product sales may require additional purchase obligations to fulfill sales obligations that are not reflected in these amounts. (5) Does not include estimated contributions to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. We made contributions to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans of $77 million in 2009 and $75 million in 2008. In 2010, we expect to contribute approximately $77 million to these plans (see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). During 2009, we contributed $60 million to our tax qualified pension plans which was greater than the minimum funding requirements. We expect to contribute approximately $60 million to these pension plans again in 2010, which is expected to be greater than the minimum funding requirements. Estimated future minimum funding requirements may vary significantly from historical requirements if actual results differ significantly from estimated results for assumptions such as returns on plan assets, interest rates, retirement rates, mortality, and other significant assumptions or by changes to current legislation and regulations. (6) As of December 31, 2009, we have accrued approximately $72 million for unrecognized tax benefits. We cannot make reasonably reliable estimates of the timing of the future payments of these liabilities. Therefore, these liabilities have been excluded from the table above. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding our contingent tax liability reserves. Effects of Inflation Our operations have benefited from relatively low inflation rates. Approximately 37 percent of our gross property, plant and equipment is at Gas Pipeline. Gas Pipeline is subject to regulation, which limits recovery to historical cost. While amounts in excess of historical cost are not recoverable under current FERC practices, we anticipate being allowed to recover and earn a return based on increased actual cost incurred to replace existing assets. Cost based regulation, along with competition and other market factors, may limit our ability to recover such increased costs. For the other operating units, operating costs are influenced to a greater extent by both competition for specialized services and specific price changes in oil and natural gas and related commodities than by changes in general inflation. Crude, natural gas, and natural gas liquids prices are particularly sensitive to the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) production levels and or the market perceptions concerning the supply and demand balance in the near future, as well as general economic conditions. However, our exposure to these price changes is reduced through the use of hedging instruments and the fee based nature of certain of our services. 77 Table of Contents Environmental We are a participant in certain environmental activities in various stages including assessment studies, cleanup operations and or remedial processes at certain sites, some of which we currently do not own (see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). We are monitoring these sites in a coordinated effort with other potentially responsible parties, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or other governmental authorities. We are jointly and severally liable along with unrelated third parties in some of these activities and solely responsible in others. Current estimates of the most likely costs of such activities are approximately $42 million, all of which are recorded as liabilities on our balance sheet at December 31, 2009. We will seek recovery of approximately $12 million of these accrued costs through future natural gas transmission rates. The remainder of these costs will be funded from operations. During 2009, we paid approximately $8 million for cleanup and or remediation and monitoring activities. We expect to pay approximately $10 million in 2010 for these activities. Estimates of the most likely costs of cleanup are generally based on completed assessment studies, preliminary results of studies or our experience with other similar cleanup operations. At December 31, 2009, certain assessment studies were still in process for which the ultimate outcome may yield significantly different estimates of most likely costs. Therefore, the actual costs incurred will depend on the final amount, type, and extent of contamination discovered at these sites, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA or other governmental authorities, and other factors. We are subject to the federal Clean Air Act and to the federal Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, which require the EPA to issue new regulations. We are also subject to regulation at the state and local level. In September 1998, the EPA promulgated rules designed to mitigate the migration of ground level ozone in certain states. Revisions to those rules were proposed in January 2010 and may result in additional controls. In March 2004 and June 2004, the EPA promulgated additional regulation regarding hazardous air pollutants, which may result in additional controls. Capital expenditures necessary to install emission control devices on our Transco gas pipeline system to comply with rules were approximately $400 thousand in 2009 and are estimated to be between $5 million and $10 million through 2013. The actual costs incurred will depend on the final implementation plans developed by each state to comply with these regulations. We consider these costs on our Transco system associated with compliance with these environmental laws and regulations to be prudent costs incurred in the ordinary course of business and, therefore, recoverable through its rates. We have established systems and procedures to meet our reporting obligations under the Mandatory Reporting Rule related to greenhouse gas emissions issued by the EPA in late 2009. Also, certain states in which we have operations have established reporting obligations. We have not incurred significant capital investment to meet the obligations imposed by these new rules. The EPA is developing additional regulations that will expand the scope of the Mandatory Reporting Rule, with particular emphasis on natural gas operations. We are participating directly and through trade associations in developmental aspects of that prospective rulemaking. It is likely that additional rules will be issued in 2010 which may expand our reporting obligations as early as 2011. As those rules are still being developed, at this time we are unable to estimate any capital investment that may be required to comply. 78 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk Our current interest rate risk exposure is related primarily to our debt portfolio. The majority of our debt portfolio is comprised of fixed rate debt in order to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in interest rates. The maturity of our long term debt portfolio is partially influenced by the expected lives of our operating assets. In February 2010, we completed a strategic restructuring that involved retiring $3 billion of our debt and issuing $3.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes of WPZ. (See Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) The tables below provide information by maturity date about our interest rate risk sensitive instruments included in continuing operations as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. Long term debt in the tables represents principal cash flows, net of (discount) premium, and weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. The fair value of our publicly traded long term debt is valued using indicative year end traded bond market prices. Private debt is valued based on market rates and the prices of similar securities with similar terms and credit ratings. Fair Value December 31, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter(1) Total 2009 (Millions) Long term debt, including current portion(2): Fixed rate $ 15 $ 936 $ 953 $ $ $ 6,119 $ 8,023 $ 8,905 Interest rate 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 8.0 % Variable rate $ $ $ 250 $ $ $ $ 250 $ 237 Interest rate(3) Fair Value December 31, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Thereafter(1) Total 2008 (Millions) Long term debt, including current portion(2): Fixed rate $ 15 $ $ 927 $ 953 $ $ 5,551 $ 7,446 $ 5,907 Interest rate 7.6 % 7.6 % 7.6 % 7.6 % 7.5 % 7.9 % Variable rate $ $ $ $ 250 $ $ $ 250 $ 233 Interest rate(3) (1) Includes unamortized discount and premium. (2) Excludes capital leases. (3) The interest rate at December 31, 2009 and 2008 is LIBOR plus 1 percent and 0.75 percent, respectively. Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to the impact of fluctuations in the market price of natural gas and NGLs, as well as other market factors, such as market volatility and commodity price correlations. We are exposed to these risks in connection with our owned energy related assets, our long term energy related contracts and our proprietary trading activities. We manage the risks associated with these market fluctuations using various derivatives and nonderivative energy related contracts. The fair value of derivative contracts is subject to many factors, including changes in energy commodity market prices, the liquidity and volatility of the markets in which the contracts are transacted, and changes in interest rates. We measure the risk in our portfolios using a value at risk methodology to estimate the potential one day loss from adverse changes in the fair value of the portfolios. Value at risk requires a number of key assumptions and is not necessarily representative of actual losses in fair value that could be incurred from the portfolios. Our value at risk model uses a Monte Carlo method to simulate hypothetical movements in future market prices and assumes that, as a result of changes in commodity prices, there 79 Table of Contents is a 95 percent probability that the one day loss in fair value of the portfolios will not exceed the value at risk. The simulation method uses historical correlations and market forward prices and volatilities. In applying the value at risk methodology, we do not consider that the simulated hypothetical movements affect the positions or would cause any potential liquidity issues, nor do we consider that changing the portfolio in response to market conditions could affect market prices and could take longer than a one day holding period to execute. While a one day holding period has historically been the industry standard, a longer holding period could more accurately represent the true market risk given market liquidity and our own credit and liquidity constraints. We segregate our derivative contracts into trading and nontrading contracts, as defined in the following paragraphs. We calculate value at risk separately for these two categories. Contracts designated as normal purchases or sales and nonderivative energy contracts have been excluded from our estimation of value at risk. Trading Our trading portfolio consists of derivative contracts entered into for purposes other than economically hedging our commodity price risk exposure. The fair value of our trading derivatives is a net liability of $11 million at December 31, 2009. Our value at risk for contracts held for trading purposes was less than $1 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Nontrading Our nontrading portfolio consists of derivative contracts that hedge or could potentially hedge the price risk exposure from the following activities: Segment Commodity Price Risk Exposure Exploration Production Natural gas sales Midstream Natural gas purchases NGL purchases and sales Gas Marketing Services Natural gas purchases and sales The fair value of our nontrading derivatives is a net asset of $99 million at December 31, 2009. The value at risk for derivative contracts held for nontrading purposes was $34 million at December 31, 2009, and $33 million at December 31, 2008. During the year ended December 31, 2009, our value at risk for these contracts ranged from a high of $37 million to a low of $27 million. Certain of the derivative contracts held for nontrading purposes are accounted for as cash flow hedges. Of the total fair value of nontrading derivatives, cash flow hedges have a net asset value of $178 million as of December 31, 2009. Though these contracts are included in our value at risk calculation, any change in the fair value of the effective portion of these hedge contracts would generally not be reflected in earnings until the associated hedged item affects earnings. Trading Policy We have policies and procedures that govern our trading and risk management activities. These policies cover authority and delegation thereof in addition to control requirements, authorized commodities and term and exposure limitations. Value at risk is limited in aggregate and calculated at a 95 percent confidence level. Foreign Currency Risk We have international investments that could affect our financial results if the investments incur a permanent decline in value as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and or the economic conditions in foreign countries. International investments accounted for under the cost method totaled $2 million at December 31, 2009, and $17 million at December 31, 2008. These investments are primarily in nonpublicly traded companies for which it is 80 Table of Contents not practicable to estimate fair value. We believe that we can realize the carrying value of these investments considering the status of the operations of the companies underlying these investments. Net assets of consolidated foreign operations, whose functional currency is the local currency, are located primarily in Canada and approximate 6 percent and 5 percent of our net assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. These foreign operations do not have significant transactions or financial instruments denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. However, these investments do have the potential to impact our financial position, due to fluctuations in these local currencies arising from the process of translating the local functional currency into the U.S. dollar. As an example, a 20 percent change in the respective functional currencies against the U.S. dollar would have changed stockholders equity by approximately $98 million at December 31, 2009. 81 Table of Contents 
 
