Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations General We are primarily an integrated natural gas company engaged in finding, producing, gathering, processing, and transporting natural gas. Our operations are located principally in the United States and are organized into the following segments as of December 31, 2010: Williams Partners, Exploration Production, and Other. (See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Part I, Item 1 for further discussion of these segments.) Unless indicated otherwise, the following discussion and analysis of critical accounting estimates, results of operations, and financial condition and liquidity relates to our current continuing operations and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8 of this document. Change in Structure and Dividend Increase On February 16, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors approved pursuing a plan to separate the company into two standalone, publicly traded corporations. The plan calls for the separation of our exploration and production business into a publicly traded company via an initial public offering of up to 20 percent of our interest in the third quarter of 2011. We intend to complete the offering so that it preserves our ability to complete a tax free spinoff of our remaining ownership in the exploration and production business to Williams shareholders in 2012, after which Williams would continue as a premier natural gas infrastructure company. We retain the discretion to determine whether and when to execute the spinoff. Additionally, we intend to increase the quarterly dividend paid to our shareholders, with an initial increase of 60 percent (to $0.20 per share), for the first quarter of 2011 payable in June 2011. Management believes these actions will serve to enhance the growth potential and overall valuation of our assets. Overview of 2010 The effects of the severe economic recession during late 2008 and 2009 have eased during 2010. Crude oil and NGL prices have returned to attractive levels, but natural gas prices have remained low. Natural gas prices have remained low and forward natural gas prices have declined, primarily as a result of significant increases in near and long term supplies, which have outpaced near term demand growth. The decline in forward natural gas prices contributed significantly to impairments recorded by our Exploration Production segment in the third quarter of 2010. However, lower natural gas prices, along with strong NGL prices and ethane demand, contributed to improved results in our midstream businesses. Abundant and low cost natural gas reserves in the United States are 44 Table of Contents driving strong demand for midstream and pipeline infrastructure. Objectives and highlights of our plan for 2010 include: Objectives Highlights Continuing to invest in our gathering and processing and interstate natural gas pipeline systems. We invested $1 billion in capital and investment expenditures in our midstream businesses and also invested $473 million in capital expenditures in our gas pipelines during 2010. Continuing to invest in our natural gas production development. We invested $2.8 billion in drilling activity and acquisitions in Exploration Production, including $1.7 billion related to acquisitions in the Bakken and Marcellus Shale areas. Retaining the flexibility to adjust our planned levels of capital and investment expenditures in response to changes in economic conditions, as well as seizing attractive opportunities. During 2010, our Williams Partners and Exploration Production segments seized growth opportunities to expand in the Marcellus Shale, while Exploration Production further diversified into oil production with an acquisition in North Dakotas Bakken Shale. (See further discussion in Other Significant 2010 Events.) These expenditures were funded through cash flow from operations, debt and equity offerings at WPZ, and cash on hand, while maintaining our desired level of liquidity of at least $1 billion from cash and cash equivalents and unused revolving credit facilities. Our 2010 income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to The Williams Companies, Inc. changed unfavorably by $1.5 billion compared to 2009. This decrease is primarily reflective of a $1 billion full impairment charge related to goodwill at Exploration Production and $678 million of pre tax charges associated with impairments of certain producing properties and acquired unproved reserves at Exploration Production during the third quarter of 2010. Additionally, we had $648 million of pre tax costs associated with our 2010 restructuring, including $606 million of early debt retirement costs. Partially offsetting these costs is the impact of an improved energy commodity price environment in 2010 compared to 2009. See additional discussion in Results of Operations. Our net cash provided by operating activities for 2010 increased $79 million compared to 2009, primarily due to the improvement in the energy commodity price environment during the year. See additional discussion in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Liquidity. Other Significant 2010 Events On February 17, 2010, we completed a strategic restructuring that involved contributing certain of our wholly and partially owned subsidiaries to WPZ, our consolidated master limited partnership, and restructuring our debt (see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). In May 2010, Exploration Production announced a major acreage acquisition in the Marcellus Shale located in northeast Pennsylvania. In July 2010, the purchase was completed for $599 million, including closing adjustments. (See Results of Operations Segments, Exploration Production.) On May 24, 2010, WPZ and WMZ entered into a merger agreement providing for the merger of WMZ and WPZ. On August 31, 2010, the WMZ unitholders approved the proposed merger between the two master limited partnerships and the merger was completed. In July 2010, we notified our partner in the Overland Pass Pipeline Company LLC (OPPL) of our election to exercise our option to purchase an additional ownership interest, which provides us with a 50 percent ownership 45 Table of Contents interest in OPPL, for approximately $424 million. This transaction was completed on September 9, 2010, primarily with proceeds from WPZs credit facility. (See Results of Operations Segments, Williams Partners.) Additionally, WPZ completed an equity offering resulting in net proceeds of $437 million, which were used to reduce the borrowing under WPZs credit facility. In October 2010, we filed an application with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to upgrade compressor facilities and expand our existing natural gas transmission system from Alabama to markets as far north as North Carolina. The cost of the project is estimated to be $219 million. The project is expected to be phased into service in September 2012 and June 2013, with an increase in capacity of 225 Mdt/d. In November 2010, WPZ acquired a business from Exploration Production represented by certain gathering and processing assets in Colorados Piceance basin, for $702 million in cash, approximately 1.8 million of WPZ common units and an increase in the capital account of its general partner to allow us to maintain our 2 percent general partner interest. (See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) In November 2010, WPZ completed a public offering of $600 million of its 4.125 percent senior notes due 2020. WPZ used the net proceeds from the offering to fund a portion of the cash consideration paid for the previously described gathering and processing assets in the Piceance basin. (See further discussion in Results of Operations Segments, Williams Partners.) In December 2010, WPZ acquired a midstream business in Pennsylvanias Marcellus Shale for $150 million. (See further discussion in Results of Operations Segments, Williams Partners.) In December 2010, Exploration Production acquired a company that holds a major acreage position (approximately 85,800 net acres) in North Dakotas Bakken Shale oil play that will diversify our interests into light, sweet crude oil production. The purchase price was approximately $949 million, including closing adjustments. In December 2010, WPZ completed a public offering of 8 million of its common units, representing limited partner interests. WPZ used the net proceeds from the common unit public offering for repayment of a $200 million borrowing under the partnerships credit facility, as well as funding a portion of the consideration for the acquisition of midstream assets in Pennsylvanias Marcellus Shale. We made a cash contribution to WPZ in order to maintain our 2 percent general partner interest in the partnership. As a result of the offering, our limited partner interest in the partnership was reduced to 73 percent. See additional discussion in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Liquidity. Outlook for 2011 We believe we are well positioned to execute on our 2011 business plan and to capture attractive growth opportunities. Economic and commodity price indicators for 2011 and beyond reflect continued improvement in the economic environment. However, given the potential volatility of these measures, it is reasonably possible that the economy could worsen and or commodity prices could decline, negatively impacting future operating results and increasing the risk of nonperformance of counterparties or impairments of long lived assets. As a result of our 2010 restructuring, as previously discussed, we are better positioned to drive additional organic growth and aggressively pursue value adding growth opportunities. Our structure is designed to lower capital costs, enhance reliable access to capital markets, and create a greater ability to pursue development projects and acquisitions. We continue to operate with a focus on increasing Economic Value Added (EVA)1 and invest in our businesses in a way that meets customer needs and enhances our competitive position by: Continuing to invest in and grow our gathering and processing, interstate natural gas pipeline systems, and natural gas and oil drilling; 1 Economic Value Added (EVA) is a registered trademark of Stern, Stewart Co. This tool considers both financial earnings and a cost of capital in measuring performance. We look for opportunities to improve EVA because we believe there is a strong correlation between EVA improvement and creation of shareholder value. 46 Table of Contents Retaining the flexibility to adjust somewhat our planned levels of capital and investment expenditures in response to changes in economic conditions or business opportunities. Potential risks and or obstacles that could impact the execution of our plan include: Lower than anticipated energy commodity prices; Lower than expected levels of cash flow from operations; Availability of capital; Counterparty credit and performance risk; Decreased drilling success at Exploration Production; Decreased volumes from third parties served by our midstream businesses; General economic, financial markets, or industry downturn; Changes in the political and regulatory environments; Physical damages to facilities, especially damage to offshore facilities by named windstorms for which our aggregate insurance policy limit is $75 million in the event of a material loss. We continue to address these risks through utilization of commodity hedging strategies, disciplined investment strategies, and maintaining at least $1 billion in consolidated liquidity from cash and cash equivalents and unused revolving credit facilities. In addition, we utilize master netting agreements and collateral requirements with our counterparties to reduce credit risk and liquidity requirements. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions. We have reviewed the selection, application, and disclosure of these critical accounting estimates with our Audit Committee. We believe that the nature of these estimates and assumptions is material due to the subjectivity and judgment necessary, or the susceptibility of such matters to change, and the impact of these on our financial condition or results of operations. Impairments of Goodwill and Long Lived Assets We have assessed goodwill for impairment annually as of the end of the year and we have performed interim assessments of goodwill if impairment triggering events or circumstances were present. One such triggering event is a significant decline in forward natural gas prices. During the first and second quarter of 2010, we evaluated the impact of declines in forward gas prices across all future production periods and determined that the impact was not significant enough to warrant a full impairment review. Forward natural gas prices through 2025 used in these prior analyses had declined less than 10 percent, on average, from December 31, 2009 through March 31, 2010 and June 30, 2010. During the third quarter of 2010, these forward natural gas prices through 2025 declined an additional 19 percent for a total year to date decline of more than 22 percent on average through September 30, 2010. Based on forward prices as of September 30, 2010, we evaluated the impact of this decline across all future production periods and determined that a full impairment review was warranted. As a result, we evaluated our goodwill of approximately $1 billion resulting from a 2001 acquisition at Exploration Production related to its domestic natural gas production operations (the reporting unit). Our impairment evaluation of goodwill first considered our managements estimate of the fair value of the reporting unit compared to its carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeded its fair value, a computation of the implied fair value of the goodwill was compared with its related carrying value. If the carrying value of the reporting unit goodwill exceeded the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss was recognized in the amount of the excess. Because quoted market prices were not available for the reporting unit, management applied reasonable judgments (including market supported assumptions when available) in estimating the fair value for the reporting unit. We estimated the fair value of the reporting unit on a stand alone basis and also 47 Table of Contents considered our market capitalization and third party estimates in corroborating our estimate of the fair value of the reporting unit. The fair value of the reporting unit was estimated primarily by valuing proved and unproved reserves. We use an income approach (discounted cash flows) for valuing reserves. The significant inputs into the valuation of proved and unproved reserves include reserve quantities, forward natural gas prices, anticipated drilling and operating costs, anticipated production curves, income taxes, and appropriate discount rates. To estimate the fair value of the reporting unit and the implied fair value of goodwill under a hypothetical acquisition of the reporting unit, we assumed a tax structure where a buyer would obtain a step up in the tax basis of the net assets acquired. In our assessment as of September 30, 2010, the carrying value of the reporting unit, including goodwill, exceeded its fair value. We then determined that the implied fair value of the goodwill was zero. As a result, we recognized a full $1 billion impairment charge related to Exploration Productions goodwill. See Note 4 and Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion and significant inputs into the fair value determination. We evaluate our long lived assets for impairment when we believe events or changes in circumstances indicate that we may not be able to recover the carrying value. Our computations utilize judgments and assumptions that include the estimated fair value of the asset, undiscounted future cash flows, discounted future cash flows, and the current and future economic environment in which the asset is operated. As a result of significant declines in forward natural gas prices during the third quarter of 2010, we assessed Exploration Productions natural gas producing properties and acquired unproved reserve costs for impairment using estimates of future cash flows. Significant judgments and assumptions in these assessments include estimates of natural gas reserves quantities, estimates of future natural gas prices using a forward NYMEX curve adjusted for locational basis differentials, drilling plans, expected capital costs, and our estimate of an applicable discount rate commensurate with risk of the underlying cash flow estimates. The assessment performed at September 30, 2010 identified certain properties with a carrying value in excess of their calculated fair values. As a result, we recognized a $678 million impairment charge. See Note 4 and Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion and significant inputs into the fair value determination. In addition to those long lived assets described above for which impairment charges were recorded, certain others were reviewed for which no impairment was required. These reviews included Exploration Productions other domestic producing properties and acquired unproved reserve costs, and utilized inputs generally consistent with those described above. Judgments and assumptions are inherent in our estimate of future cash flows used to evaluate these assets. The use of alternate judgments and assumptions could result in the recognition of different levels of impairment charges in the consolidated financial statements. For Exploration Productions other producing assets reviewed, but for which impairment charges were not recorded, we estimate that approximately 10 percent could be at risk for impairment if forward prices across all future periods decline by approximately 8 to 11 percent, on average, as compared to the forward prices at December 31, 2010. A substantial portion of the remaining carrying value of these other assets (primarily related to Exploration Productions assets in the Piceance basin) could be at risk for impairment if forward prices across all future periods decline by at least 30 percent, on average, as compared to the prices at December 31, 2010. Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities We review our energy contracts to determine whether they are derivatives or contain derivatives. We further assess the appropriate accounting method for any derivatives identified, which could include: Qualifying for and electing cash flow hedge accounting, which recognizes changes in the fair value of the derivative in other comprehensive income (to the extent the hedge is effective) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings; Qualifying for and electing accrual accounting under the normal purchases and normal sales exception; or Applying mark to market accounting, which recognizes changes in the fair value of the derivative in earnings. 48 Table of Contents If cash flow hedge accounting or accrual accounting is not applied, a derivative is subject to mark to market accounting. Determination of the accounting method involves significant judgments and assumptions, which are further described below. The determination of whether a derivative contract qualifies as a cash flow hedge includes an analysis of historical market price information to assess whether the derivative is expected to be highly effective in offsetting the cash flows attributed to the hedged risk. We also assess whether the hedged forecasted transaction is probable of occurring. This assessment requires us to exercise judgment and consider a wide variety of factors in addition to our intent, including internal and external forecasts, historical experience, changing market and business conditions, our financial and operational ability to carry out the forecasted transaction, the length of time until the forecasted transaction is projected to occur, and the quantity of the forecasted transaction. In addition, we compare actual cash flows to those that were expected from the underlying risk. If a hedged forecasted transaction is not probable of occurring, or if the derivative contract is not expected to be highly effective, the derivative does not qualify for hedge accounting. For derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, we must periodically assess whether they continue to qualify for hedge accounting. We prospectively discontinue hedge accounting and recognize future changes in fair value directly in earnings if we no longer expect the hedge to be highly effective, or if we believe that the hedged forecasted transaction is no longer probable of occurring. If the forecasted transaction becomes probable of not occurring, we reclassify amounts previously recorded in other comprehensive income into earnings in addition to prospectively discontinuing hedge accounting. If the effectiveness of the derivative improves and is again expected to be highly effective in offsetting the cash flows attributed to the hedged risk, or if the forecasted transaction again becomes probable, we may prospectively re designate the derivative as a hedge of the underlying risk. Derivatives for which the normal purchases and normal sales exception has been elected are accounted for on an accrual basis. In determining whether a derivative is eligible for this exception, we assess whether the contract provides for the purchase or sale of a commodity that will be physically delivered in quantities expected to be used or sold over a reasonable period in the normal course of business. In making this assessment, we consider numerous factors, including the quantities provided under the contract in relation to our business needs, delivery locations per the contract in relation to our operating locations, duration of time between entering the contract and delivery, past trends and expected future demand, and our past practices and customs with regard to such contracts. Additionally, we assess whether it is probable that the contract will result in physical delivery of the commodity and not net financial settlement. Since our energy derivative contracts could be accounted for in three different ways, two of which are elective, our accounting method could be different from that used by another party for a similar transaction. Furthermore, the accounting method may influence the level of volatility in the financial statements associated with changes in the fair value of derivatives, as generally depicted below: Consolidated Statement of Operations Consolidated Balance Sheet Accounting Method Drivers Impact Drivers Impact Accrual Accounting Realizations Less Volatility None No Impact Cash Flow Hedge Accounting Realizations Ineffectiveness Less Volatility Fair Value Changes More Volatility Mark to Market Accounting Fair Value Changes More Volatility Fair Value Changes More Volatility Our determination of the accounting method does not impact our cash flows related to derivatives. Additional discussion of the accounting for energy contracts at fair value is included in Notes 1 and 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 49 Table of Contents Oil and Gas Producing Activities We use the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas producing activities. Estimated natural gas and oil reserves and forward market prices for oil and gas are a significant part of our financial calculations. Following are examples of how these estimates affect financial results: An increase (decrease) in estimated proved oil and gas reserves can reduce (increase) our unit of production depreciation, depletion, and amortization rates. Changes in oil and gas reserves and forward market prices both impact projected future cash flows from our oil and gas properties. This, in turn, can impact our periodic impairment analyses. The process of estimating natural gas and oil reserves is very complex, requiring significant judgment in the evaluation of all available geological, geophysical, engineering, and economic data. After being estimated internally, approximately 94 percent of our domestic reserve estimates are audited by independent experts. (See Part I, Item 1 for further discussion.) The data may change substantially over time as a result of numerous factors, including additional development cost and activity, evolving production history, and a continual reassessment of the viability of production under changing economic conditions. As a result, material revisions to existing reserve estimates could occur from time to time. Such changes could trigger an impairment of our oil and gas properties and have an impact on our depreciation, depletion, and amortization expense prospectively. For example, a change of approximately 10 percent in our total oil and gas reserves could change our annual depreciation, depletion, and amortization expense between approximately $77 million and $94 million. The actual impact would depend on the specific basins impacted and whether the change resulted from proved developed, proved undeveloped, or a combination of these reserve categories. Forward market prices, which are utilized in our impairment analyses, include estimates of prices for periods that extend beyond those with quoted market prices. This forward market price information is consistent with that generally used in evaluating our drilling decisions and acquisition plans. These market prices for future periods impact the production economics underlying oil and gas reserve estimates. The prices of natural gas and oil are volatile and change from period to period, thus impacting our estimates. Significant unfavorable changes in the forward price curve could result in an impairment of our oil and gas properties. Contingent Liabilities We record liabilities for estimated loss contingencies, including environmental matters, when we assess that a loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Revisions to contingent liabilities are generally reflected in income when new or different facts or information become known or circumstances change that affect the previous assumptions with respect to the likelihood or amount of loss. Liabilities for contingent losses are based upon our assumptions and estimates and upon advice of legal counsel, engineers, or other third parties regarding the probable outcomes of the matter. Areas of significance include certain royalty related and other litigated matters, as well as environmental matters. As new developments occur or more information becomes available, our assumptions and estimates of these liabilities may change. Changes in our assumptions and estimates or outcomes different from our current assumptions and estimates could materially affect future results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period. See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Valuation of Deferred Tax Assets and Tax Contingencies We have deferred tax assets resulting from certain investments and businesses that have a tax basis in excess of the book basis and from tax carry forwards generated in the current and prior years. We must evaluate whether we will ultimately realize these tax benefits and establish a valuation allowance for those that may not be realizable. This evaluation considers tax planning strategies, including assumptions about the availability and character of future taxable income. When assessing the need for a valuation allowance, we consider forecasts of future company performance, the estimated impact of potential asset dispositions, and our ability and intent to execute tax planning strategies to utilize tax carryovers. The ultimate amount of deferred tax assets realized could be materially different from those recorded, as influenced by potential changes in jurisdictional income tax laws and the circumstances surrounding the actual realization of related tax assets, including the impact of organizational or structural changes. 50 Table of Contents We regularly face challenges from domestic and foreign tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. These challenges include questions regarding the timing and amount of deductions and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. We evaluate the liability associated with our various filing positions by applying the two step process of recognition and measurement. The ultimate disposition of these contingencies could have a significant impact on operating results and net cash flows. To the extent we were to prevail in matters for which accruals have been established or were required to pay amounts in excess of our accrued liability, our effective tax rate in a given financial statement period may be materially impacted. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Pension and Postretirement Obligations We have employee benefit plans that include pension and other postretirement benefits. Net periodic benefit expense and obligations for these plans are impacted by various estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include the expected long term rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, expected rate of compensation increase, health care cost trend rates, and employee demographics, including retirement age and mortality. These assumptions are reviewed annually and adjustments are made as needed. The assumptions utilized to compute expense and the benefit obligations are shown in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table presents the estimated increase (decrease) in net periodic benefit expense and obligations resulting from a one percentage point change in the specified assumption. Benefit Expense Benefit Obligation One Percentage One Percentage One Percentage One Percentage Point Increase Point Decrease Point Increase Point Decrease (Millions) Pension benefits: Discount rate $ (10 ) $ 11 $ (133 ) $ 158 Expected long term rate of return on plan assets (10 ) 10 Rate of compensation increase 3 (3 ) 14 (12 ) Other postretirement benefits: Discount rate (3 ) 3 (35 ) 43 Expected long term rate of return on plan assets (2 ) 2 Assumed health care cost trend rate 5 (4 ) 39 (32 ) Our expected long term rates of return on plan assets, as determined at the beginning of each fiscal year, are based on the average rate of return expected on the funds invested in the plans. We determine our long term expected rate of return on plan assets using our expectations of capital market results, which includes an analysis of historical results as well as forward looking projections. These capital market expectations are based on a long term period of at least ten years and consider our investment strategy and mix of assets, which is weighted toward domestic and international equity securities. We develop our expectations using input from several external sources, including consultation with our third party independent investment consultant. The forward looking capital market projections are developed using a consensus of economists expectations for inflation, GDP growth, and dividend yield along with expected changes in risk premiums. The capital market return projections for specific asset classes in the investment portfolio are then applied to the relative weightings of the asset classes in the investment portfolio. The resulting rate is an estimate of future results and, thus, likely to be different than actual results. The capital markets continued to improve in 2010 and the benefit plans assets reflect this improvement. While the 2010 investment performance was greater than our expected rates of return, the expected rates of return on plan assets are long term in nature and are not significantly impacted by short term market performance. Changes to our asset allocation would also impact these expected rates of return. Our expected long term rate of return on plan assets used for our pension plans had been 7.75 percent since 2006. In 2010, we reduced our expected long term rate of return on pension plan assets to 7.5 percent. This reduction was implemented due to changes in long term capital market expectations and our intent to slightly reduce the equity exposure and increase the fixed income exposure in 51 Table of Contents the investment portfolio. The 2010 actual return on plan assets for our pension plans was a gain of approximately 12.9 percent. The ten year average rate of return on pension plan assets through December 2010 was approximately 3.3 percent and is largely affected by the approximately 34.1 percent loss experienced in 2008. The discount rates are used to measure the benefit obligations of our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The objective of the discount rates is to determine the amount, if invested at the December 31 measurement date in a portfolio of high quality debt securities, that will provide the necessary cash flows when benefit payments are due. Increases in the discount rates decrease the obligation and, generally, decrease the related expense. The discount rates for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined separately based on an approach specific to our plans and their respective expected benefit cash flows as described in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our discount rate assumptions are impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions that affect interest rates on long term high quality debt securities as well as by the duration of our plans liabilities. The expected rate of compensation increase represents average long term salary increases. An increase in this rate causes the pension obligation and expense to increase. The assumed health care cost trend rates are based on national trend rates adjusted for our actual historical cost rates and plan design. An increase in this rate causes the other postretirement benefit obligation and expense to increase. Fair Value Measurements A limited amount of our energy derivative assets and liabilities trade in markets with lower availability of pricing information requiring us to use unobservable inputs and are considered Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. At December 31, 2010, less than 1 percent of our energy derivative assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are included in Level 3. For Level 2 transactions, we do not make significant adjustments to observable prices in measuring fair value as we do not generally trade in inactive markets. The determination of fair value for our energy derivative assets and liabilities also incorporates the time value of money and various credit risk factors which can include the credit standing of the counterparties involved, master netting arrangements, the impact of credit enhancements (such as cash collateral posted and letters of credit) and our nonperformance risk on our energy derivative liabilities. The determination of the fair value of our energy derivative liabilities does not consider noncash collateral credit enhancements. For net derivative assets, we apply a credit spread, based on the credit rating of the counterparty, against the net derivative asset with that counterparty. For net derivative liabilities we apply our own credit rating. We derive the credit spreads by using the corporate industrial credit curves for each rating category and building a curve based on certain points in time for each rating category. The spread comes from the discount factor of the individual corporate curves versus the discount factor of the LIBOR curve. At December 31, 2010, the credit reserve is less than $1 million on both our net derivative assets and net derivative liabilities. Considering these factors and that we do not have significant risk from our net credit exposure to derivative counterparties, the impact of credit risk is not significant to the overall fair value of our derivatives portfolio. At December 31, 2010, 89 percent of the fair value of our derivatives portfolio expires in the next 12 months and more than 99 percent expires in the next 24 months. Our derivatives portfolio is largely comprised of exchange traded products or like products where price transparency has not historically been a concern. Due to the nature of the markets in which we transact and the relatively short tenure of our derivatives portfolio, we do not believe it is necessary to make an adjustment for illiquidity. We regularly analyze the liquidity of the markets based on the prevalence of broker pricing and exchange pricing for products in our derivatives portfolio. The instruments included in Level 3 at December 31, 2010, consist of natural gas index transactions that are used to manage the physical requirements of our Exploration Production segment. The change in the overall fair value of instruments included in Level 3 primarily results from changes in commodity prices. Exploration Production has an unsecured credit agreement through December 2015 with certain banks that, so long as certain conditions are met, serves to reduce our usage of cash and other credit facilities for margin requirements related to instruments included in the facility. 52 Table of Contents For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we recognized impairments of certain assets that were measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. These impairment measurements are included in Level 3 as they include significant unobservable inputs, such as our estimate of future cash flows and the probabilities of alternative scenarios. (See Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Results of Operations Consolidated Overview The following table and discussion is a summary of our consolidated results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 2010. The results of operations by segment are discussed in further detail following this consolidated overview discussion. Years Ended December 31, $ Change % Change $ Change % Change from from from from 2010 2009* 2009* 2009 2008* 2008* 2008 (Millions) Revenues $ 9,616 +1,361 +16 % $ 8,255 3,635 31 % $ 11,890 Costs and expenses: Costs and operating expenses 7,185 1,104 18 % 6,081 + 2,695 +31 % 8,776 Selling, general and administrative expenses 498 +14 +3 % 512 8 2 % 504 Impairments of goodwill and long lived assets 1,692 1,672 NM 20 + 133 +87 % 153 Other (income) expense net (24 ) +21 NM (3 ) 222 99 % (225 ) General corporate expenses 221 57 35 % 164 15 10 % 149 Total costs and expenses 9,572 6,774 9,357 Operating income (loss) 44 1,481 2,533 Interest accrued net (581 ) +4 +1 % (585 ) 8 1 % (577 ) Investing income net 209 +163 NM 46 143 76 % 189 Early debt retirement costs (606 ) 605 NM (1 ) (1 ) Other income (expense) net (12 ) 14 NM 2 + 2 NM Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes (946 ) 943 2,144 Provision (benefit) for income taxes (30 ) +389 NM 359 + 318 +47 % 677 Income (loss) from continuing operations (916 ) 584 1,467 Income (loss) from discontinued operations (6 ) +217 +97 % (223 ) 348 NM 125 Net income (loss) (922 ) 361 1,592 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 175 99 130 % 76 + 98 +56 % 174 Net income (loss) attributable to The Williams Companies, Inc. $ (1,097 ) $ 285 $ 1,418 * + Favorable change; Unfavorable change; NM A percentage calculation is not meaningful due to a change in signs, a zero value denominator, or a percentage change greater than 200. 2010 vs. 2009 The increase in revenues is primarily due to higher marketing and NGL production revenues due to higher average energy commodity prices at Williams Partners. Additionally, Exploration Production gas management and production revenues increased reflecting an increase in average natural gas prices, partially offset by a decrease in production volumes sold. NGL and olefin production revenues at Other also increased due to higher average per unit prices. 53 Table of Contents The increase in costs and operating expenses is primarily due to increased marketing purchases and NGL production costs at Williams Partners, reflecting higher average energy commodity prices. Exploration Production costs increased primarily due to increased average natural gas prices associated with gas management activities. Additionally, NGL and olefin production costs at Other increased due to higher average per unit feedstock costs. Impairments of goodwill and long lived assets in 2010 primarily includes a $1 billion impairment of goodwill and $678 million of impairments of certain producing properties and acquired unproved reserves at Exploration Production. Impairments of goodwill and long lived assets in 2009 includes $20 million impairment of certain producing properties and acquired unproved reserves at Exploration Production. Other (income) expense net within operating income (loss) in 2010 includes: $18 million of involuntary conversion gains at Williams Partners due to insurance recoveries that are in excess of the carrying value of assets; A $12 million gain on the sale of certain assets at Williams Partners; A $10 million accrual of a regulatory liability related to overcollection of certain employee expenses at Williams Partners. Other (income) expense net within operating income (loss) in 2009 includes: A $40 million gain on the sale of our Cameron Meadows NGL processing plant at Williams Partners; $32 million of penalties from the early termination of certain drilling rig contracts at Exploration Production. General corporate expenses in 2010 includes $45 million of transaction costs associated with our strategic restructuring transaction. The unfavorable change in operating income (loss) is primarily due to $1.7 billion of impairment charges in 2010 at Exploration Production and $45 million of transaction costs in 2010 associated with our strategic restructuring transaction. The unfavorable change is partially offset by an improved energy commodity price environment in 2010 compared to 2009 and the favorable change in other (income) expense net. The increase in investing income net is primarily due to the absence of a $75 million impairment charge in 2009 and a $43 million gain in 2010 on the sale of our 50 percent interest in Accroven at Other, a $27 million increase in equity earnings, primarily at Williams Partners, and the absence of an $11 million impairment charge in 2009 of a cost based investment at Exploration Production. Early debt retirement costs in 2010 reflect costs related to corporate debt retirements associated with our first quarter strategic restructuring transaction, including premiums of $574 million. Provision (benefit) for income taxes changed favorably primarily due to the pre tax loss in 2010 compared to pre tax income in 2009. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a reconciliation of the effective tax rates compared to the federal statutory rate for both years. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the items in income (loss) from discontinued operations. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased reflecting higher results, primarily at WPZ, due to an improved energy commodity price environment in 2010 compared to 2009 as well as the impact of the first quarter 2009 impairments and related charges associated with our discontinued Venezuela operations. 54 Table of Contents 2009 vs. 2008 Our consolidated results in 2009 declined significantly compared to 2008. These results reflect a rapid decline in energy commodity prices that began in the fourth quarter of 2008 as a result of the weakened economy. Energy commodity prices generally improved during 2009, but not to levels experienced early in 2008. The decrease in revenues is primarily due to decreased gas management and production revenues at Exploration Production, reflecting a decrease in average natural gas prices, partially offset by an increase in production volumes sold. NGL production and marketing revenues at Williams Partners, as well as NGL and olefin production revenues at Other, also decreased reflecting lower average prices. The decrease in costs and operating expenses is primarily due to decreased costs at Exploration Production reflecting a decrease in average natural gas prices associated with gas management activities, as well as decreased marketing purchases and decreased costs associated with our NGL production businesses at Williams Partners. In addition, NGL and olefin production costs at Other decreased primarily due to lower average per unit feedstock costs. Impairments of goodwill and long lived assets in 2008 includes $143 million of impairments of certain producing properties at Exploration Production and $10 million of impairments of certain gathering and transportation assets at Williams Partners. Other (income) expense net within operating income (loss) in 2008 includes: Gain of $148 million on the sale of our Peru interests at Exploration Production; Net gains of $39 million on foreign currency exchanges at Other; Income of $32 million related to the partial settlement of our Gulf Liquids litigation at Other; Gain of $10 million on the sale of certain south Texas assets at Williams Partners; Income of $17 million resulting from involuntary conversion gains at Williams Partners; Expense of $23 million related to project development costs at Williams Partners. General corporate expenses increased primarily due to an increase in employee related expenses, partially offset by a decrease in outside services. The decrease in operating income (loss) generally reflects an overall unfavorable energy commodity price environment in 2009 compared to 2008 and other changes as previously discussed. The decrease in investing income net is primarily due to a $75 million impairment charge in 2009 of our 50 percent interest in Accroven at Other and an $11 million impairment charge in 2009 of a cost based investment at Exploration Production. (See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) A decrease in interest income, primarily due to lower average interest rates in 2009 compared to 2008, also contributed to the decrease in investing income net. Provision (benefit) for income taxes changed favorably primarily due to lower pre tax income. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a reconciliation of the effective tax rates compared to the federal statutory rate for both years. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the items in income (loss) from discontinued operations. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests decreased reflecting the first quarter 2009 impairments and related charges associated with our discontinued Venezuela operations (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) and the decline in WPZs operating results primarily driven by lower NGL margins. 55 Table of Contents Results of Operations Segments Williams Partners Our Williams Partners segment includes WPZ, our consolidated master limited partnership, which includes two interstate natural gas pipelines, as well as investments in natural gas pipeline related companies, which serve regions from the San Juan basin in northwestern New Mexico and southwestern Colorado to Oregon and Washington and from the Gulf of Mexico to the northeastern United States. WPZ also includes natural gas gathering and processing and treating facilities and oil gathering and transportation facilities located primarily in the Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast regions of the United States. As of December 31, 2010, we currently own approximately 75 percent of the interests in WPZ, including the interests of the general partner, which is wholly owned by us, and incentive distribution rights. Williams Partners ongoing strategy is to safely and reliably operate large scale, interstate natural gas transmission and midstream infrastructures where our assets can be fully utilized and drive low per unit costs. We focus on consistently attracting new business by providing highly reliable service to our customers and utilizing our low cost of capital to invest in growing markets, including the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the Marcellus Shale, the western United States, and areas of increasing natural gas demand. Williams Partners interstate transmission and related storage activities are subject to regulation by the FERC and as such, our rates and charges for the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, and the extension, expansion or abandonment of jurisdictional facilities and accounting, among other things, are subject to regulation. The rates are established through the FERCs ratemaking process. Changes in commodity prices and volumes transported have little near term impact on revenues because the majority of cost of service is recovered through firm capacity reservation charges in transportation rates. Overview of 2010 Significant events during 2010 include the following: Echo Springs Plant Expansion New capacity from our expansion of the Echo Springs facility began service in the fourth quarter of 2010. The addition of the fourth cryogenic processing train added approximately 350 MMcf/d of processing capacity and 30 Mbbls/d of NGL production capacity, nearly doubling Echo Springs capacities in both cases. Approximately 70 MMcf/d of production from Exploration Production in the Piceance basin is currently being processed at the Echo Springs facility for a volumetric based fee. While a slow down in Wamsutter area drilling has resulted in some unused capacity, we are exploring ways to bring more natural gas to this facility in the coming year. Marcellus Shale Gathering Asset Acquisition In the fourth quarter of 2010 we acquired a gathering business in Pennsylvanias Marcellus Shale in the Appalachian basin for $150 million. The business includes 75 miles of gathering pipelines and two compressor stations which currently gathers approximately 235 MMcf/d. We have agreed to a new long term dedicated gathering agreement with the seller for its production in the northeast Pennsylvania area of the Marcellus Shale. The acquired system will connect into the Transco pipeline through our Springville gathering pipeline, currently under construction in the Appalachian basin. Piceance Acquisition During the fourth quarter of 2010, we completed the purchase of certain gathering and processing assets in the Piceance basin from Exploration Production as discussed in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In conjunction with this purchase, we entered into a gathering and processing agreement with Exploration Production, such that future gathering and processing revenues will be at a higher, market based rate. Prior periods reflect gathering and processing revenues at an internal cost of service rate. 56 Table of Contents Perdido Norte Our Perdido Norte project, in the western deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico, began start up of operations late in the first quarter of 2010. The project includes a 200 MMcf/d expansion of our onshore Markham gas processing facility and a total of 179 miles of deepwater oil and gas lines that expand the scale of our existing infrastructure. Shortly after an initial startup, during the second quarter, production was suspended by the operator of the deepwater producing platforms to address facility issues and the third quarter was impacted by further delays. While these issues have been resolved and both oil and gas production is currently flowing, production has been impacted in part by the drilling moratorium and the producers technical issues, and has not increased as quickly as expected. We anticipate volumes to increase significantly, however, during 2011. Impact of Gulf Oil Spill Our transportation and processing assets in the Gulf of Mexico were not physically impacted by the Deepwater Horizon oil spill. Operations are normal at all facilities, and we did not experience any operational or logistical issues that hindered the safety of our employees or facilities. The drilling moratorium, in force from May to October, in the Gulf of Mexico impacted the financial performance of our operations through production delays which reduced natural gas and oil growth volumes in 2010. Protracted delays in permitting and drilling could continue to impact our future growth volumes. While we continue to carefully monitor the events and business environment in the Gulf of Mexico for potential negative impacts, we also continue to pursue major expansion and growth opportunities in that region. Overland Pass Pipeline In September 2010, we completed the $424 million acquisition of an additional 49 percent ownership interest in OPPL, which increased our ownership interest to 50 percent. In 2006, we entered into an agreement to develop new pipeline capacity for transporting NGLs from production areas in the Rocky Mountain area to central Kansas. Our partner reimbursed us for the development costs we had incurred for the proposed pipeline and acquired 99 percent of the pipeline. We retained a 1 percent interest and the option to increase our ownership to 50 percent within two years of the pipeline becoming operational in November of 2008. As long as we retain a 50 percent ownership interest in OPPL, we have the right to become operator. We have notified our partner of our intent to operate and are currently working on an early 2011 transition. Work is also under way to determine optimal expansions to serve producers in the OPPL corridor. OPPL includes a 760 mile NGL pipeline from Opal, Wyoming, to the Mid Continent NGL market center in Conway, Kansas, along with 150 and 125 mile extensions into the Piceance and Denver Joules basins in Colorado, respectively. Our equity NGL volumes from our two Wyoming plants and our Willow Creek facility in Colorado are dedicated for transport on OPPL under a long term shipping agreement. Volatile commodity prices Average per unit NGL margins in 2010 are significantly higher than in 2009, benefiting from a period of increasing average NGL prices while abundant natural gas supplies limited the increase in natural gas prices. Benefits from favorable natural gas price differentials in the Rocky Mountain area have narrowed since the second quarter of 2009 such that our realized per unit margins are only slightly greater than that of the industry benchmarks for natural gas processed in the Henry Hub area and for liquids fractionated and sold at Mont Belvieu, Texas. NGL margins are defined as NGL revenues less any applicable BTU replacement cost, plant fuel, and third party transportation and fractionation. Per unit NGL margins are calculated based on sales of our own equity volumes at the processing plants. 57 Table of Contents Gathering and Processing Per Unit NGL Margin with Production and Sales Volumes by Quarter (excludes partially owned plants) Williams Pipeline Partners L.P. During the third quarter, WPZ consummated its merger with WMZ. As a result, WMZ is wholly owned by WPZ and is no longer publicly traded. Mobile Bay South project In May 2010, a compression facility in Alabama allowing natural gas pipeline transportation service to various southbound delivery points was placed into service. The cost of the project was $32 million and increased capacity by 254 thousand dekatherms per day (Mdt/d). Sundance Trail project In November 2009, approval was received from the FERC to construct approximately 16 miles of 30 inch pipeline between existing compressor stations in Wyoming. The project also includes an upgrade to the existing compressor station. The total estimated cost of the project is approximately $50 million. The project was placed in service in November 2010 with an increase in capacity of 150 Mdt/d. Outlook for 2011 The following factors could impact our business in 2011. Commodity price changes We expect our average per unit NGL margins in 2011 to be higher than our rolling five year average per unit NGL margins. NGL price changes have historically tracked somewhat with changes in the price of crude oil, although NGL, crude and natural gas prices are highly volatile and difficult to predict. NGL margins are highly dependent upon continued demand within the global economy. However, NGL products are currently the preferred feedstock for ethylene and propylene production, which has been shifting away from the more expensive crude based feedstocks. Bolstered by abundant long term domestic natural gas supplies, we expect to benefit from these dynamics in the broader global petrochemical markets. 58 Table of Contents Gathering, processing, and NGL sales volumes The growth of natural gas supplies supporting our gathering and processing volumes are impacted by producer drilling activities. We anticipate growth in our onshore businesses gas gathering and processing volumes as our infrastructure grows to support drilling activities in the Piceance and Appalachian basins. However, we anticipate no change or slight declines in basins in the Rocky Mountain and Four Corners areas due to reduced drilling activity. Due to the high proportion of fee based processing agreements in the Piceance basin, we anticipate only a slight increase in NGL equity sales volumes. In our Gulf Coast businesses, we expect higher gas gathering, processing and crude transportation volumes as our Perdido Norte pipelines move into a full year of operation and other in process drilling is completed. However, permitting and production delays related to the drilling moratorium which was in force from May to October, 2010 continue to hamper growth. While we expect an overall increase in processed gas volumes in 2011, NGL equity volumes are expected to be lower as we anticipate a major contract to change from keep whole to fee based processing. Expansion projects We have planned capital and investment expenditures of $1,090 million to $1,370 million in 2011 including expenditures related to our newly acquired gathering system in the Marcellus Shale as well as our Laurel Mountain Midstream, LLC (Laurel Mountain) equity investment. We also plan to pursue major expansion and growth opportunities in the Gulf of Mexico, as well as in the Piceance basin in conjunction with both Exploration Productions and third party drilling programs. The ongoing major expansion projects include: 85 North An expansion of our existing natural gas transmission system from Alabama to various delivery points as far north as North Carolina. The cost of the project is estimated to be approximately $236 million. Phase I service was placed into service in July 2010 and increased capacity by 90 Mdt/d. Phase II service is anticipated to begin in May 2011 and will increase capacity by 219 Mdt/d. Mobile Bay South II Additional compression facilities and modifications to existing facilities in Alabama allowing natural gas transportation service to various southbound delivery points. In July 2010, we received approval from the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Construction began in October 2010 and is estimated to cost $35 million. The estimated project in service date is May 2011 and will increase capacity by 380 Mdt/d. Mid South In October 2010, we filed an application with the FERC to upgrade compressor facilities and expand our existing natural gas transmission system from Alabama to markets as far north as North Carolina. The cost of the project is estimated to be $219 million. The project is expected to be phased into service in September 2012 and June 2013, with an increase in capacity of 225 Mdt/d. Mid Atlantic Connector In November 2010, we filed an application with the FERC to expand our existing natural gas transmission system from North Carolina to markets as far downstream as Maryland. The cost of the project is estimated to be $55 million and will increase capacity by 142 Mdt/d. We plan to place the project into service in November 2012. Marcellus Shale In the Appalachian basin, $150 million was added to our planned expansion capital to fund the 2011 construction phase of additional gathering assets, including compression and dehydration. In conjunction with a 59 Table of Contents long term agreement with a significant producer, we will construct and operate a 33 mile natural gas gathering pipeline in the Marcellus Shale region which will connect our recently acquired gathering assets in Pennsylvanias Marcellus Shale into the Transco pipeline. In order to pursue future opportunities, the project has been increased from a 20 inch diameter to a 24 inch diameter pipeline. Construction on the pipeline is expected to begin in the first quarter of 2011 and be completed during 2011. Laurel Mountain Capital to be invested within our Laurel Mountain Midstream, LLC (Laurel Mountain) equity investment to enable the rapid expansion of our gathering system including the initial stages of projects that are planned to provide approximately 1.5 Bcf/d of gathering capacity and 1,400 miles of gathering lines, including 400 new miles of 6 inch to 24 inch diameter pipeline. Construction has begun on our Shamrock compressor station with an initial capacity of 60 MMcf/d, expandable to 350 MMcf/d, which will likely be the largest central delivery point out of the Laurel Mountain system. We have several other proposed projects to meet customer demands in addition to the various in progress expansion projects previously discussed. Subject to regulatory approvals, construction of some of these projects could begin in 2011. Year Over Year Operating Results Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009* 2008* (Millions) Segment revenues $ 5,715 $ 4,602 $ 5,847 Segment profit $ 1,574 $ 1,317 $ 1,425 * Recast as discussed in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 2010 vs. 2009 The increase in segment revenues includes: A $699 million increase in marketing revenues primarily due to higher average NGL and crude prices. These changes are more than offset by similar changes in marketing purchases. A $330 million increase in revenues associated with the production of NGLs reflecting an increase of $335 million associated with a 41 percent increase in average NGL per unit sales prices. A $56 million increase in fee revenues primarily due to higher gathering revenue in the Piceance basin as a result of permitted increases in the cost of service gathering rate in 2010. The increase in segment costs and expenses of $884 million includes: A $721 million increase in marketing purchases primarily due to higher average NGL and crude prices. These changes are substantially offset by similar changes in marketing revenues. A $107 million increase in costs associated with the production of NGLs reflecting an increase of $101 million associated with a 30 percent increase in average natural gas prices. A $19 million increase in operating costs including $12 million higher depreciation primarily due to the new Perdido Norte pipelines and a full year of depreciation on our Willow Creek facility which was placed into service in the latter part of 2009. A $14 million unfavorable change related to the disposal of assets reflecting the absence of a $40 million gain on the sale of our Cameron Meadows processing plant in 2009, partially offset by smaller gains in 2010. Gains recognized in 2010 include involuntary conversion gains due to insurance recoveries in excess of the carrying value of our Gulf assets which were damaged by Hurricane Ike in 2008 and our 60 Table of Contents Ignacio plant, which was damaged by a fire in 2007, as well as gains associated with sales of certain assets in Colorados Piceance basin. The increase in William Partners segment profit includes: $223 million of higher NGL production margins reflecting higher NGL prices, partially offset by increased production costs associated with higher natural gas prices. NGL equity volumes were slightly higher due primarily to new production at Willow Creek, partially offset by the absence of favorable customer contractual changes and decreasing inventory levels in 2009. $28 million increase in equity earnings, including a $10 million increase from Discovery primarily due to higher processing margins and new volumes from the Tahiti pipeline lateral expansion completed in 2009. In addition, equity earnings from Aux Sable Liquid Products LP (Aux Sable) are $10 million higher primarily due to higher processing margins, and equity earnings from our increased investment in OPPL were $5 million. A $56 million increase in fee revenues as previously discussed. A $22 million decrease in margins related to the marketing of NGLs and crude primarily due to lower favorable changes in pricing while product was in transit in 2010 as compared to 2009. A $19 million increase in operating costs as previously discussed. A $14 million unfavorable change related to the disposal of assets as previously discussed. 2009 vs. 2008 The decrease in segment revenues includes: A $716 million decrease in revenues associated with the production of NGLs primarily due to lower average NGL prices. A $513 million decrease in marketing revenues primarily due to lower average NGL and crude prices, partially offset by higher NGL volumes. A $53 million decrease in revenues from lower transportation imbalance settlements in 2009 compared to 2008 (offset in costs and operating expenses). A $65 million increase in fee revenues primarily due to higher volumes resulting from connecting new supplies in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico in the latter part of 2008 and new fees for processing the Exploration Production segments natural gas production at Willow Creek. A $17 million increase in transportation revenues associated with expansion projects placed into service in 2009. The decrease in segment costs and expenses of $1,132 million includes: A $643 million decrease in marketing purchases primarily due to lower average NGL and crude prices, including the absence of a $9 million charge in 2008 to write down the value of NGL inventories, partially offset by higher NGL volumes. A $435 million decrease in costs associated with the production of NGLs primarily due to lower average natural gas prices. A $53 million decrease in costs associated with lower transportation imbalance settlements in 2009 compared to 2008 (offset in segment revenues). A $40 million gain on the 2009 sale of our Cameron Meadows processing plant. The absence of $17 million of charges in 2008 related to an impairment, asset abandonments, and asset retirement obligations. 61 Table of Contents The decrease in William Partners segment profit includes: $281 million of lower NGL production margins reflecting a decrease in energy commodity prices in 2009 compared to 2008. $124 million in higher margins related to the marketing of NGLs primarily due to favorable changes in pricing while product was in transit during 2009 as compared to significant unfavorable changes in pricing while product was in transit in 2008 and the absence of a $9 million charge in 2008 to write down the value of NGL inventories. A $40 million gain in 2009 on the sale of our Cameron Meadows processing plant, partially offset by the absence of a $5 million involuntary conversion gain in 2008 related to our Cameron Meadows plant. Exploration Production Exploration Production includes the natural gas development, production and gas management activities primarily in the Rocky Mountain and Mid Continent regions of the United States, natural gas development activities in the northeastern portion of the United States, oil and natural gas interests in South America, and more recently, oil development activities in the northern United States. The gas management activities include procuring fuel and shrink gas for our midstream businesses and providing marketing services to third parties, such as producers. Additionally, gas management activities include the managing of various natural gas related contracts such as transportation, storage and related hedges. Overview of 2010 Domestic production revenues for 2010 were higher than 2009 primarily due to higher realized average prices on our natural gas production, partially offset by lower production volumes. Segment profit (loss) for 2010 includes approximately $1.7 billion in impairments of natural gas properties and goodwill (see further discussion below), while 2009 included expense of $32 million associated with contractual penalties from the early termination of drilling rig contracts. Highlights of the comparative periods, primarily related to our production activities, include: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 % Change Average daily domestic production (MMcfe) 1,132 1,182 4 % Average daily total production (MMcfe) 1,185 1,236 4 % Domestic production realized average price ($/Mcfe)(1) $ 5.23 $ 4.85 +8 % Capital expenditures and acquisitions($ millions) $ 2,823 $ 1,291 +119 % Domestic production revenues ($ millions) $ 2,160 $ 2,093 +3 % Segment revenues ($ millions) $ 4,042 $ 3,684 +10 % Segment profit (loss) ($ millions) $ (1,343 ) $ 391 NM (1) Realized average prices include market prices, net of fuel and shrink and hedge gains and losses. The realized hedge gain per Mcfe was $0.81 and $1.43 for 2010 and 2009, respectively. During the second quarter of 2010, we entered into an agreement to acquire additional leasehold acreage positions and a 5 percent overriding royalty interest associated with these acreage positions. These acquisitions nearly double our acreage holdings in the Marcellus Shale and closed in July for $599 million, including closing adjustments. During 2010, we also spent a total of $164 million to acquire additional unproved leasehold acreage in the Marcellus Shale. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we acquired a company that holds a major acreage position (approximately 85,800 net acres, most of which is undeveloped) in North Dakotas Bakken Shale oil play (Williston basin) that will diversify our interests into light, sweet crude oil production. The purchase price was approximately $949 million, including closing adjustments. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we completed the sale of certain gathering and processing assets in the Piceance basin to WPZ for consideration of $702 million in cash and approximately 1.8 million common units. See 62 Table of Contents Note 1 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In conjunction with this sale, we entered into a gathering and processing agreement with WPZ. Gathering and processing costs prior to the sale reflect an internal cost of service rate. Subsequent to the closing date of the sale, gathering and processing costs will be at a higher, market based rate. As a result of significant declines in forward natural gas prices during third quarter 2010, we performed an interim assessment of our capitalized costs related to property and goodwill. As a result of these assessments, we recorded a $503 million impairment charge related to the capitalized costs of our Barnett Shale properties and a $175 million impairment charge related to capitalized costs of acquired unproved reserves in the Piceance Highlands, which were acquired in 2008. Additionally, we fully impaired our goodwill in the amount of $1 billion. These impairments were based on our assessment of estimated future discounted cash flows and other information. See Notes 4 and 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of the impairments. Outlook for 2011 We have the following expectations for 2011: Natural gas prices to remain at levels similar to 2010. Increase capital expenditures in 2011 over levels (before acquisitions) in 2010 to develop positions that were acquired in the Appalachian and Williston basins in 2010. Continuation of our development drilling program in the Appalachian, Piceance, Fort Worth, Powder River, and San Juan basins. Our total capital expenditures for 2011 are projected to be between $1.15 billion and $1.75 billion. We expect to maintain three to five drilling rigs in our newly acquired Williston basin properties with related capital expenditures expected to be between $200 million and $300 million. Annual average daily domestic production expected to increase approximately 9 percent over 2010. Risks to achieving our expectations include unfavorable energy commodity price movements which are impacted by numerous factors, including weather conditions, domestic natural gas, oil and NGL production levels and demand. A significant decline in natural gas, oil and NGL prices would impact these expectations for 2011, although the impact would be somewhat mitigated by our hedging program, which hedges a significant portion of our expected production. In addition, changes in laws and regulations may impact our development drilling program. Purchase Commitments In connection with a gathering agreement entered into by Williams Partners with a third party in December 2010, we concurrently agreed to buy up to 200,000 MMBtu/d of natural gas priced at market prices from the same third party. Purchases under the 12 year contract are expected to begin in the third quarter of 2011. We expect to sell this natural gas in the open market and may utilize available transportation capacity to facilitate the sales. 63 Table of Contents Commodity Price Risk Strategy To manage the commodity price risk and volatility of owning producing gas and oil properties, we enter into derivative contracts for a portion of our future production. For 2011, we have the following contracts for our daily domestic production, shown at weighted average volumes and basin level weighted average prices: 2011 Natural Gas Price ($/Mcf) Volume Floor Ceiling for (MMcf/d) Collars Collar agreements Rockies 45 $5.30 $7.10 Collar agreements San Juan 90 $5.27 $7.06 Collar agreements Mid Continent 80 $5.10 $7.00 Collar agreements Southern California 30 $5.83 $7.56 Collar agreements Appalachia 30 $6.50 $8.14 Fixed price at basin swaps 368 $5.21 2011 Crude Oil Volume (Bbls/d) (Feb Dec) Price ($/Bbl) WTI Crude Oil fixed price (entered into first quarter 2011) 3,073 95.13 The following is a summary of our agreements and contracts for daily domestic production shown at weighted average volumes and basin level weighted average prices for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008: 2010 2009 2008 Price ($/Mcf) Price ($/Mcf) Price ($/Mcf) Volume Floor Ceiling Volume Floor Ceiling Volume Floor Ceiling (MMcf/d) for Collars (MMcf/d) for Collars (MMcf/d) for Collars Collars Rockies 100 $6.53 $8.94 150 $6.11 $9.04 170 $6.16 $9.14 Collars San Juan 233 $5.75 $7.82 245 $6.58 $9.62 202 $6.35 $8.96 Collars Mid Continent 105 $5.37 $7.41 95 $7.08 $9.73 63 $7.02 $9.72 Collars Southern California 45 $4.80 $6.43 Collars Other 28 $5.63 $6.87 NYMEX and basis fixed price 120 $4.40 106 $3.67 70 $3.97 Additionally, we utilize contracted pipeline capacity to move our production from the Rockies to other locations when pricing differentials are favorable to Rockies pricing. We hold a long term obligation to deliver on a firm basis 200,000 MMbtu per day of gas to a buyer at the White River Hub (Greasewood Meeker, CO), which is the major market hub exiting the Piceance basin. Our interests in the Piceance basin hold sufficient reserves to meet this obligation. 64 Table of Contents Year Over Year Operating Results Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009* 2008* (Millions) Segment revenues: Domestic production revenues $ 2,160 $ 2,093 $ 2,819 Gas management revenues 1,743 1,456 3,244 Net forward unrealized mark to market gains and ineffectiveness 27 18 29 Other revenues 112 117 103 Total segment revenues $ 4,042 $ 3,684 $ 6,195 Segment profit (loss) $ (1,343 ) $ 391 $ 1,253 * Recast as discussed in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 2010 vs. 2009 The increase in total segment revenues is primarily due to the following: The increase in domestic production revenues reflects an increase of $156 million associated with an 8 percent increase in realized average prices including the effect of hedges, partially offset by a decrease of $89 million associated with a 4 percent decrease in production volumes sold. Production revenues in 2010 and 2009 include approximately $202 million and $93 million, respectively, related to NGLs and approximately $57 million and $38 million, respectively, related to condensate. The increase related to NGLs is primarily due to higher volumes in the Piceance basin processed by Williams Partners Willow Creek facility, which was placed into service in the latter part of 2009; The increase in gas management revenues is primarily due to an increase in physical natural gas revenue as a result of a 21 percent increase in average prices on physical natural gas sales. This is primarily related to gas sales associated with our transportation and storage contracts and is offset by a similar increase in segment costs and expenses; Total segment costs and expenses increased $2,094 million, primarily due to the following: $1,684 million due to 2010 impairments of property and goodwill as previously discussed. In 2009, $20 million of impairments were recorded in the Fort Worth and Arkoma basins; $278 million increase in gas management expenses, primarily due to an 19 percent increase in average prices on physical natural gas purchases. This increase is primarily related to the gas purchases associated with our previously discussed transportation and storage contracts and is more than offset by a similar increase in segment revenues. Gas management expenses in 2010 and 2009 include $48 million and $21 million, respectively, related to charges for unutilized pipeline capacity; $76 million higher gathering, processing, and transportation expenses primarily as a result of processing natural gas liquids at Williams Partners Willow Creek plant, which began processing in August 2009, and higher rates charged on gathering and processing associated with certain gathering and processing assets in the Piceance basin that were sold to WPZ in the fourth quarter of 2010; $44 million higher severance and ad valorem taxes primarily due to higher average market prices, excluding the impact of hedges; $30 million higher lease and other operating expenses primarily due to increased workover and maintenance activity; $27 million higher depreciation, depletion, and amortization expenses primarily due to a change in prior production volumes and higher depreciable costs used in the calculation of depreciation, depletion, and amortization expenses. 65 Table of Contents Partially offsetting the increased costs is a decrease due to the absence of $32 million of expenses in 2009 related to penalties from the early release of drilling rigs as previously discussed. The $1,734 million decrease in segment profit (loss) is primarily due to the impairments, partially offset by an 8 percent increase in realized average domestic prices on production and the other previously discussed changes in segment revenues and segment costs and expenses. 2009 vs. 2008 The decrease in total segment revenues is primarily due to the following: $726 million, or 26 percent, decrease in domestic production revenues reflecting $946 million associated with a 31 percent decrease in realized average prices, partially offset by an increase of $220 million associated with an 8 percent increase in production volumes sold. Production revenues in 2009 and 2008 include approximately $93 million and $85 million, respectively, related to NGLs and approximately $38 million and $62 million, respectively, related to condensate. While NGL volumes were significantly higher than the prior year, NGL prices were significantly lower; $1,788 million, or 55 percent, decrease in gas management revenues primarily due to a decrease in physical natural gas revenue as a result of a 56 percent decrease in average prices on physical natural gas sales, slightly offset by a 2 percent increase in natural gas sales volumes. This is primarily related to gas sales associated with our transportation and storage contracts and is substantially offset by a similar decrease in segment costs and expenses. The decrease in net forward unrealized mark to market gains (losses) and ineffectiveness is primarily related to the absence of a $10 million favorable impact in 2008 for the initial consideration of our own nonperformance risk in estimating the fair value of our derivative liabilities. Total segment costs and expenses decreased $1,651 million, primarily due to the following: $1,752 million decrease in gas management expenses, primarily due to a 55 percent decrease in average prices on physical natural gas purchases, slightly offset by a 2 percent increase in natural gas purchase volumes. This decrease is primarily related to the gas purchases associated with our previously discussed transportation and storage contracts and is more than offset by a similar decrease in segment revenues. Gas management expenses in 2009 and 2008 include $21 million and $8 million, respectively, related to charges for unutilized pipeline capacity. Gas management expenses in 2009 and 2008 also include $7 million and $35 million, respectively, related to adjustments to the carrying value of natural gas inventories in storage; $166 million lower operating taxes due primarily to 56 percent lower average market prices (excluding the impact of hedges), partially offset by higher production volumes sold. The lower operating taxes include a net decrease of $39 million reflecting a $34 million charge in 2008 and $5 million of favorable revisions in 2009 relating to Wyoming severance and ad valorem tax issues; $143 million due to the absence of property impairments recorded in 2008 in the Arkoma basin; $6 million lower SGA expenses, which include lower bad debt expense related to the partial recovery of certain receivables previously reserved for in 2008 resulting from a bankrupt counterparty. Partially offsetting the decreased costs are increases due to the following: The absence of a $148 million gain recorded in 2008 associated with the sale of our Peru interests; $145 million higher depreciation, depletion, and amortization expense primarily due to the impact of higher capitalized drilling costs from prior years and higher production volumes compared to the prior year. Also, we recorded an additional $17 million of depreciation, depletion, and amortization in the 66 Table of Contents fourth quarter of 2009 primarily due to new SEC reserves reporting rules. Our proved reserves decreased primarily due to the new SEC reserves reporting rules and the related price impact; $57 million higher gathering, processing and transportation expense primarily due to higher production volumes and the processing fees for natural gas liquids at Williams Partners Willow Creek plant, which began processing in August 2009; $32 million of expense related to penalties from the early release of drilling rigs as previously discussed; $31 million higher exploratory expense in 2009, primarily related to $20 million of increased seismic costs and $12 million related to higher amortization and the write off of lease acquisition costs. Dry hole costs for 2009 and 2008 were $11 million and $12 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, we have approximately $14 million of capitalized drilling costs and $24 million of undeveloped leasehold costs related to continuing exploratory activities in the Paradox basin; $20 million of impairment costs in the Fort Worth and Arkoma basins. We recorded a $15 million impairment in 2009 related to costs of acquired unproved reserves resulting from a 2008 acquisition in the Fort Worth basin. This impairment was based on our assessment of estimated future discounted cash flows and additional information obtained from drilling and other activities in 2009. We also recorded a $5 million impairment in the Arkoma basin in 2009 related to facilities. The $862 million decrease in segment profit is primarily due to the 31 percent decrease in realized average domestic prices and the other previously discussed changes in segment revenues and segment costs and expenses. Other Other includes other business activities that are not operating segments, primarily our Canadian midstream and domestic olefins operations and a 25.5 percent interest in Gulfstream, as well as corporate operations. Segment profit (loss) for the year ended December 31, 2010, has improved compared to the prior year primarily due to $139 million higher NGL and olefins production margins resulting from significantly higher average per unit margins on lower volumes and the net impact of recognizing $43 million in gains on the Accroven investment in 2010 while recording a $75 million impairment charge on that investment in 2009. Significant events for 2010 include the following: Sale of Accroven Considering the deteriorating circumstances in Venezuela, in 2009 we fully impaired our $75 million investment in Accroven SRL, a Venezuelan operation. (See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) In June of 2010, we sold our 50 percent interest in Accroven to the state owned oil company, Petrleos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA) for $107 million. Of this amount, $13 million was received in cash at closing and another $30 million was received in August 2010. The remainder is due in six quarterly payments beginning October 31, 2010. The first quarterly payment of $11 million was received in January 2011 and will be recognized as income in 2011. We will continue to recognize the resulting gain as cash is received. Accroven was not part of our operations that were expropriated by the Venezuelan government in May 2009. Completion of the butylene/butane splitter facility in Canada The new butylene/butane splitter and hydro treating facility was placed into service in August 2010. The butylene/butane splitter further fractionates the butylene/butane mix product produced at our Redwater fractionators near Edmonton, Alberta, into separate butylene and butane products, which receive higher values and are in greater demand. The source of the product fractionated at Redwater is our oil sands off gas extraction facility near Ft. McMurray, Alberta. Outlook for 2011 The following factors could impact our business in 2011. 67 Table of Contents Commodity price changes We anticipate average per unit margins in 2011 will be consistent with the 2010 levels. Margins in our Canadian midstream and domestic olefins business are highly dependent upon continued demand within the global economy. NGL products are currently the preferred feedstock for ethylene and propylene production which has been shifting away from the more expensive crude based feedstocks. Bolstered by abundant long term domestic natural gas supplies, we expect to benefit from these dynamics in the broader global petrochemical markets because of our NGL based olefins production. Allocation of capital to projects We expect to spend $380 million to $480 million in 2011 on capital projects. The major expansion projects include a 12 inch diameter pipeline in Canada, which will transport recovered NGLs and olefins from our extraction plant in Ft. McMurray to our Redwater fractionation facility. The pipeline will have sufficient capacity to transport additional recovered liquids in excess of those from our current agreements. Construction has begun and we anticipate an in service date in 2012. Year Over Year Operating Results Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 1,057 $ 780 $ 1,257 Segment profit (loss) $ 240 $ (2 ) $ 142 2010 vs. 2009 Segment revenues increased primarily due to: $307 million higher NGL and olefins production revenues resulting from higher average per unit prices. The new butylene/butane splitter began producing and selling both butylene and butane in August 2010 and resulted in $22 million additional sales revenues over the 2009 butylene/butane mix product sold. $27 million higher marketing revenues due to general increases in energy commodity prices on slightly higher volumes. The higher marketing revenues were more than offset by similar changes in marketing purchases described below. Partially offsetting the increased revenue was a $57 million decrease from lower sales volumes primarily due to: 11 percent lower Gulf ethylene sales volumes, including the impact of a four week plant maintenance outage at our Geismar plant during the fourth quarter of 2010. 12 percent lower propylene volumes sold primarily due to the absence of certain large 2009 propylene inventory sales and lower volumes available for processing at our Gulf propylene splitter. Segment costs and expenses increased $150 million primarily as a result of: $156 million higher NGL and olefins production product costs resulting from higher average per unit feedstock costs. $29 million increased marketing purchases due to general increases in energy commodity prices on slightly higher volumes. The increased marketing purchases more than offset similar changes in marketing revenues. $7 million higher operating and general and administrative costs in our Canadian midstream and domestic olefins operations. Partially offsetting the increased costs are decreases due to: $45 million of reduced product costs resulting from the lower sales volumes described above. 68 Table of Contents $6 million favorable customer settlement in 2010. The favorable change in segment profit (loss) is primarily due to $139 million higher NGL and olefins production margins resulting from significantly higher average per unit margins on lower volumes and the net impact of recognizing $43 million in gains on the Accroven investment in 2010 while recording a $75 million impairment charge on that investment in 2009. 2009 vs. 2008 Segment revenues decreased primarily due to: A $457 million decrease in NGL and olefins production revenues resulting from lower average product prices, partially offset by higher volumes. A $19 million decrease in marketing revenues primarily due to lower average NGL and olefin prices, partially offset by higher NGL and olefin volumes. Segment costs and expenses decreased $413 million primarily as a result of: A $445 million decrease in costs in our NGL and olefins production business primarily due to lower per unit feedstock costs, including the absence of an $11 million charge in 2008 to write down the value of olefin inventories, partially offset by higher volumes. A $34 million decrease in marketing purchases primarily due to lower average NGL and olefin prices, including the absence of an $11 million charge in 2008 to write down the value of our NGL inventories, partially offset by higher volumes. These decreases were partially offset by: A $39 million unfavorable change primarily due to foreign currency exchange gains in 2008 related to the revaluation of current assets held in U.S. dollars within our Canadian operations. The absence of $32 million of income in 2008 related to the partial settlement of our Gulf Liquids litigation (see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The unfavorable change in segment profit (loss) was primarily due to: A $75 million loss from investment related to the 2009 impairment of our investment in Accroven. A $39 million unfavorable change primarily due to foreign currency exchange gains in 2008 related to the revaluation of current assets held in U.S. dollars within our Canadian operations. The absence of $32 million of income in 2008 related to the partial settlement of our Gulf Liquids litigation. A $12 million decrease in NGL and olefins production margins primarily due to lower average prices, partially offset by lower per unit feedstock costs, including the absence of an $11 million charge in 2008 to write down the value of olefin production inventories, and higher volumes in 2009 related to the impact of third party operational issues in 2008 that reduced off gas supplies to our plant in Canada. The absence of an $8 million gain recognized in 2008 related to a final earn out payment on a 2005 asset sale. These decreases were partially offset by $15 million higher marketing margins in our NGL and olefins production business primarily due to the absence of an $11 million charge in 2008 to write down the value of NGL inventories. 69 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Liquidity Overview In 2010, we continued to focus upon growth through disciplined investments in our businesses. Examples of this growth included: Continued investment in Exploration Productions development drilling programs, as well as acquisitions that expanded our presence in the Marcellus Shale and provided our initial entry into the Bakken Shale areas. Expansion of Williams Partners interstate natural gas pipeline system to meet the demand of growth markets. Continued investment in Williams Partners deepwater Gulf expansion projects, gas processing capacity in the western United States, infrastructure in the Marcellus Shale area and increased ownership in OPPL. These investments were funded through cash flow from operations, debt and equity offerings at WPZ and cash on hand. During 2010, the overall economic recession has impacted us. In consideration of our liquidity under these conditions, we note the following: As of December 31, 2010, we have approximately $800 million of cash and cash equivalents and approximately $2.7 billion of available credit capacity under our credit facilities. Our $900 million credit facility does not expire until May 2012, and WPZs $1.75 billion credit facility does not expire until February 2013. Additionally, Exploration Production has an unsecured credit agreement that serves to reduce our margin requirements related to our hedging activities. (See additional discussion in the following Available Liquidity section.) Our credit exposure to derivative counterparties is partially mitigated by master netting agreements and collateral support. (See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Outlook For 2011, we expect operating cash flows to be stronger than 2010 levels. Lower than expected energy commodity prices would be somewhat mitigated by certain of our cash flow streams that are substantially insulated from short term changes in commodity prices as follows: Firm demand and capacity reservation transportation revenues under long term contracts from our gas pipelines; Hedged natural gas sales at Exploration Production related to a significant portion of its production; Fee based revenues from certain gathering and processing services in our midstream businesses. We believe we have, or have access to, the financial resources and liquidity necessary to meet our requirements for working capital, capital and investment expenditures, and tax and debt payments while maintaining a sufficient level of liquidity. In particular, we note the following assumptions for the year: We expect to maintain consolidated liquidity (which includes liquidity at WPZ) of at least $1 billion from cash and cash equivalents and unused revolving credit facilities; We expect to fund capital and investment expenditures, debt payments, dividends, and working capital requirements primarily through cash flow from operations, cash and cash equivalents on hand, utilization of our revolving credit facilities, and proceeds from debt issuances and sales of equity securities as needed. Based on a range of market assumptions, we currently estimate our cash flow from operations will be between $2.5 billion and $3.3 billion in 2011; We expect capital and investment expenditures to total between $3.125 billion and $4.125 billion in 2011. Of this total, a significant portion of Williams Partners expected expenditures of $1.58 billion to 70 Table of Contents $1.905 billion are considered nondiscretionary to meet legal, regulatory, and or contractual requirements or to fund committed growth projects. Exploration Productions expected expenditures of $1.15 billion to $1.75 billion are considered primarily discretionary. See Results of Operations Segments, Williams Partners and Exploration Production for discussions describing the general nature of these expenditures. Potential risks associated with our planned levels of liquidity and the planned capital and investment expenditures discussed above include: Sustained reductions in energy commodity prices from the range of current expectations; Lower than expected distributions, including incentive distribution rights, from WPZ. WPZs liquidity could also be impacted by a lack of adequate access to capital markets to fund its growth; Lower than expected levels of cash flow from operations from Exploration Production and our other businesses. Liquidity Based on our forecasted levels of cash flow from operations and other sources of liquidity, we expect to have sufficient liquidity to manage our businesses in 2011. Our internal and external sources of consolidated liquidity include cash generated from our operations, cash and cash equivalents on hand, and our credit facilities. Additional sources of liquidity, if needed, include bank financings, proceeds from the issuance of long term debt and equity securities, and proceeds from asset sales. These sources are available to us at the parent level and are expected to be available to certain of our subsidiaries, particularly equity and debt issuances from WPZ. WPZ is expected to be self funding through its cash flows from operations, use of its credit facility, and its access to capital markets. Cash held by WPZ is available to us through distributions in accordance with the partnership agreement, which considers our level of ownership and incentive distribution rights. Our ability to raise funds in the capital markets will be impacted by our financial condition, interest rates, market conditions, and industry conditions. Available Liquidity December 31, 2010 Expiration WPZ WMB Total (Millions) Cash and cash equivalents $ 187 $ 608 (1) $ 795 Available capacity under our $900 million unsecured revolving and letter of credit facility(2) May 1, 2012 900 900 Capacity available to Williams Partners L.P. under its $1.75 billion senior unsecured credit facility(2) February 17, 2013 1,750 1,750 $ 1,937 $ 1,508 $ 3,445 (1) Cash and cash equivalents includes $25 million of funds received from third parties as collateral. The obligation for these amounts is reported as accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Also included is $518 million of cash and cash equivalents that is being utilized by certain subsidiary and international operations. The remainder of our cash and cash equivalents is primarily held in government backed instruments. (2) At December 31, 2010, we are in compliance with the financial covenants associated with these credit facilities. See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition to the credit facilities listed above, we have issued letters of credit totaling $90 million as of December 31, 2010, under certain bilateral bank agreements. 71 Table of Contents WPZ filed a shelf registration statement as a well known, seasoned issuer in October 2009 that allows it to issue an unlimited amount of registered debt and limited partnership unit securities. At the parent company level, we filed a shelf registration statement as a well known, seasoned issuer in May 2009 that allows us to issue an unlimited amount of registered debt and equity securities. Exploration Production has an unsecured credit agreement with certain banks that, so long as certain conditions are met, serves to reduce our use of cash and other credit facilities for margin requirements related to our hedging activities as well as lower transaction fees. In July 2010, the agreement term was extended from December 2013 to December 2015. The impairments of goodwill, natural gas producing properties and acquired unproved reserves recorded by our Exploration Production segment in the third quarter of 2010 (see Notes 4 and 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) did not impact our ability to utilize Exploration Productions credit agreement to facilitate hedging our future natural gas production. Credit Ratings Our ability to borrow money is impacted by our credit ratings and the credit ratings of WPZ. The current ratings are as follows: WMB WPZ Standard and Poors(1) Corporate Credit Rating BBB BBB Senior Unsecured Debt Rating BB+ BBB Outlook Positive Positive Moodys Investors Service(2) Senior Unsecured Debt Rating Baa3 Baa3 Outlook Stable Stable Fitch Ratings(3) Senior Unsecured Debt Rating BBB BBB Outlook Stable Stable (1) A rating of BBB or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below BBB indicates that the security has significant speculative characteristics. A BB rating indicates that Standard Poors believes the issuer has the capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation, but adverse business conditions could lead to insufficient ability to meet financial commitments. Standard Poors may modify its ratings with a + or a sign to show the obligors relative standing within a major rating category. (2) A rating of Baa or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below Baa is considered to have speculative elements. The 1, 2, and 3 modifiers show the relative standing within a major category. A 1 indicates that an obligation ranks in the higher end of the broad rating category, 2 indicates a mid range ranking, and 3 indicates the lower end of the category. (3) A rating of BBB or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below BBB is considered speculative grade. Fitch may add a + or a sign to show the obligors relative standing within a major rating category. Credit rating agencies perform independent analyses when assigning credit ratings. No assurance can be given that the credit rating agencies will continue to assign us investment grade ratings even if we meet or exceed their current criteria for investment grade ratios. A downgrade of our credit rating might increase our future cost of borrowing and would require us to post additional collateral with third parties, negatively impacting our available liquidity. As of December 31, 2010, we estimate that a downgrade to a rating below investment grade for WMB or WPZ would require us to post up to $453 million or $53 million, respectively, in additional collateral with third parties. 72 Table of Contents Sources (Uses) of Cash Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (Millions) Net cash provided (used) by: Operating activities $ 2,651 $ 2,572 $ 3,355 Financing activities 573 166 (432 ) Investing activities (4,296 ) (2,310 ) (3,183 ) Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (1,072 ) $ 428 $ (260 ) Operating activities Our net cash provided by operating activities in 2010 increased slightly from 2009 primarily due to the improvement in the energy commodity price environment during the year. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities from 2009 to 2008 was primarily due to the decrease in our operating results. Financing activities Significant transactions include: 2010 $369 million received from WPZs December 2010 equity offering used primarily to reduce revolver borrowings mentioned below and to fund a portion of WPZs acquisition of a midstream business in Pennsylvanias Marcellus Shale in December 2010; $200 million received in revolver borrowings from WPZs $1.75 billion unsecured credit facility primarily used for WPZs general partnership purposes and to fund a portion of the cash consideration paid for WPZs acquisition of certain gathering and processing assets in Colorados Piceance basin in November 2010; $600 million received from WPZs public offering of 4.125 percent senior unsecured notes in November 2010 primarily used to fund a portion of the cash consideration paid to Exploration Production for WPZs Piceance acquisition (see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); $430 million received in revolver borrowings from WPZs $1.75 billion unsecured credit facility primarily used to fund our increased ownership in OPPL, a transaction that closed in September 2010; $437 million received from a WPZ equity offering used to reduce WPZs revolver borrowings mentioned above; $3.491 billion received by WPZ in February 2010 from the issuance of $3.5 billion of senior unsecured notes related to our previously discussed restructuring (see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); $3 billion of senior unsecured notes retired in February 2010 and $574 million paid in associated premiums utilizing proceeds from the $3.5 billion debt issuance (see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); $250 million received from revolver borrowings on WPZs $1.75 billion unsecured credit facility in February 2010 to repay a term loan; We paid $284 million of quarterly dividends on common stock for the year ended December 31, 2010. 73 Table of Contents 2009 We received $595 million net cash from the issuance of $600 million aggregate principal amount of 8.75 percent senior unsecured notes due 2020 to fund general corporate expenses and capital expenditures. (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.); We paid $256 million of quarterly dividends on common stock for the year ended December 31, 2009. 2008 We received $362 million from the completion of the WMZ initial public offering; We paid $474 million for the repurchase of our common stock. (See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.); WPZ received $75 million net proceeds from debt transactions; We paid $250 million of quarterly dividends on common stock for the year ended December 31, 2008. Investing activities Significant transactions include: 2010 Capital expenditures totaled $2.8 billion in 2010. Included is approximately $599 million, including closing adjustments, related to Exploration Productions acquisition in the Marcellus Shale in July 2010 (see Results of Operations Segments, Exploration Production); We paid approximately $949 million, including closing adjustments, for Exploration Productions December 2010 business purchase, consisting primarily of oil and gas properties in the Bakken Shale (see Results of Operations Segments, Exploration Production); We contributed $488 million to our investments, including a $424 million cash payment for WPZs September 2010 acquisition of an increased interest in OPPL (see Results of Operations Segments, Williams Partners); We paid $150 million for WPZs December 2010 business purchase, consisting primarily of certain midstream assets in the Marcellus Shale. 2009 Capital expenditures totaled $2.4 billion, more than half of which related to Exploration Production. Included was a $253 million payment by Exploration Production for the purchase of additional properties in the Piceance basin. (See Results of Operations Segments, Exploration Production.); We received $148 million as a distribution from Gulfstream following its debt offering; We contributed $142 million to our investments, including $106 million related to our Laurel Mountain equity investment and $20 million related to our Gulfstream equity investment. 2008 Capital expenditures totaled $3.4 billion and were primarily related to Exploration Productions drilling activity. This total includes Exploration Productions acquisitions of certain interests in the Piceance and Fort Worth basins; We received $148 million of cash from Exploration Productions sale of a contractual right to a production payment; 74 Table of Contents We contributed $111 million to our investments, including $90 million related to our Gulfstream equity investment. Off Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements and Guarantees of Debt or Other Commitments We have various other guarantees and commitments which are disclosed in Notes 9, 11, 15 and 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We do not believe these guarantees or the possible fulfillment of them will prevent us from meeting our liquidity needs. Contractual Obligations The table below summarizes the maturity dates of our contractual obligations at December 31, 2010, including obligations related to discontinued operations. 2012 2014 2011 2013 2015 Thereafter Total (Millions) Long term debt, including current portion: Principal $ 507 $ 352 $ 750 $ 7,532 $ 9,141 Interest 580 1,071 1,017 5,046 7,714 Capital leases 1 3 4 Operating leases 89 84 59 182 414 Purchase obligations(1) 1,068 1,446 1,233 2,674 6,421 Other long term liabilities, including current portion: Physical and financial derivatives(2)(3) 489 1,058 870 3,634 6,051 Other(4)(5) 165 165 Total $ 2,899 $ 4,014 $ 3,929 $ 19,068 $ 29,910 (1) Includes $2.3 billion of natural gas purchase obligations at market prices at our Exploration Production segment. The purchased natural gas can be sold at market prices. (2) Includes $5.4 billion of physical natural gas derivatives related to purchases at market prices in our Exploration Production segment. The natural gas expected to be purchased under these contracts can be sold at market prices. The obligations for physical and financial derivatives are based on market information as of December 31, 2010, and assumes contracts remain outstanding for their full contractual duration. Because market information changes daily and has the potential to be volatile, significant changes to the values in this category may occur. (3) Expected offsetting cash inflows of $2.1 billion at December 31, 2010, resulting from product sales or net positive settlements, are not reflected in these amounts. In addition, product sales may require additional purchase obligations to fulfill sales obligations that are not reflected in these amounts. (4) Does not include estimated contributions to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. We made contributions to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans of $76 million in 2010 and $77 million in 2009. In 2011, we expect to contribute approximately $83 million to these plans (see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). During 2010, we contributed $60 million to our tax qualified pension plans which was greater than the minimum required contributions. We expect to contribute approximately $60 million to these pension plans again in 2011, which is expected to be greater than the minimum required contributions. In the past, we have contributed amounts in excess of the minimum required contribution. These excess amounts can be used to offset future minimum contribution requirements. In the future, we may elect to use some of these excess amounts to satisfy the minimum contribution requirement in order to maintain cash contributions at the current level. Additionally, estimated future minimum funding requirements may vary significantly from historical requirements if actual results differ significantly from estimated results for 75 Table of Contents assumptions such as returns on plan assets, interest rates, retirement rates, mortality, and other significant assumptions or by changes to current legislation and regulations. (5) Includes $165 million reflecting our estimate of an income tax settlement to be paid in 2011. We have not included other income tax liabilities in the table above. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of income taxes, including our unrecognized tax benefits. Effects of Inflation Our operations have benefited from relatively low inflation rates. Approximately 35 percent of our gross property, plant, and equipment is comprised of our interstate gas pipelines. These assets are subject to regulation, which limits recovery to historical cost. While amounts in excess of historical cost are not recoverable under current FERC practices, we anticipate being allowed to recover and earn a return based on increased actual cost incurred to replace existing assets. Cost based regulation, along with competition and other market factors, may limit our ability to recover such increased costs. For the remainder of our business, operating costs are influenced to a greater extent by both competition for specialized services and specific price changes in crude oil and natural gas and related commodities than by changes in general inflation. Crude oil, natural gas, and NGL prices are particularly sensitive to the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) production levels and or the market perceptions concerning the supply and demand balance in the near future, as well as general economic conditions. However, our exposure to certain of these price changes is reduced through the use of hedging instruments and the fee based nature of certain of our services. Environmental We are a participant in certain environmental activities in various stages including assessment studies, cleanup operations and or remedial processes at certain sites, some of which we currently do not own (see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). We are monitoring these sites in a coordinated effort with other potentially responsible parties, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or other governmental authorities. We are jointly and severally liable along with unrelated third parties in some of these activities and solely responsible in others. Current estimates of the most likely costs of such activities are approximately $49 million, all of which are included in accrued liabilities and other liabilities and deferred income on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2010. We will seek recovery of approximately $12 million of these accrued costs through future natural gas transmission rates. The remainder of these costs will be funded from operations. During 2010, we paid approximately $8 million for cleanup and or remediation and monitoring activities. We expect to pay approximately $11 million in 2011 for these activities. Estimates of the most likely costs of cleanup are generally based on completed assessment studies, preliminary results of studies or our experience with other similar cleanup operations. At December 31, 2010, certain assessment studies were still in process for which the ultimate outcome may yield significantly different estimates of most likely costs. Therefore, the actual costs incurred will depend on the final amount, type, and extent of contamination discovered at these sites, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA or other governmental authorities, and other factors. We are also subject to the Federal Clean Air Act (Act) and to the Federal Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (1990 Amendments), which added significantly to the existing requirements established by the Act. Pursuant to requirements of the 1990 Amendments and EPA rules designed to mitigate the migration of ground level ozone (NOx), we are planning installation of air pollution controls on existing sources at certain facilities in order to reduce NOx emissions. For many of these facilities, we are developing more cost effective and innovative compressor engine control designs. In March 2008, the EPA promulgated a new, lower National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) for ground level ozone. Within two years, the EPA was expected to designate new eight hour ozone non attainment areas. However, in September 2009, the EPA announced it would reconsider the 2008 NAAQS for ground level ozone to ensure that the standards were clearly grounded in science and were protective of both public health and the environment. As a result, the EPA delayed designation of new eight hour ozone non attainment areas under the 2008 standards until the reconsideration is complete. In January 2010, the EPA proposed to further reduce the ground level ozone NAAQS from the March 2008 levels. The EPA currently anticipates finalization of the new ground level ozone standard in the third quarter of 2011. Designation of new eight hour ozone non attainment areas 76 Table of Contents are expected to result in additional federal and state regulatory actions that will likely impact our operations and increase the cost of additions to property, plant and equipment net on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. We are unable at this time to estimate the cost of additions that may be required to meet this new regulation. Additionally, in August 2010, the EPA promulgated National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) regulations that will impact our operations. The emission control additions required to comply with the NESHAP regulations are estimated to include costs in the range of $31 million to $39 million through 2013, the compliance date. Furthermore, the EPA promulgated the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Mandatory Reporting Rule on October 30, 2009, which requires facilities that emit 25,000 metric tons or more carbon dioxide (CO2) equivalent per year from stationary fossil fuel combustion sources to report GHG emissions to the EPA annually beginning March 31, 2011 for calendar year 2010. On November 30, 2010, the EPA issued additional regulations that expand the scope of the Mandatory Reporting Rule to include fugitive and vented greenhouse gas emissions effective January 1, 2011. Facilities that emit 25,000 metric tons or more CO2 equivalent per year from stationary fossil fuel combustion and fugitive/vented sources combined will be required to report GHG combustion and fugitive/vented emissions to the EPA annually beginning March 31, 2012, for calendar year 2011. Compliance with this reporting obligation is estimated to cost a total of $10 million to $14 million over the next four to five years. In February 2010, the EPA promulgated a final rule establishing a new one hour nitrogen dioxide (NO2) NAAQS. The effective date of the new NO2 standard was April 12, 2010. This new standard is subject to numerous challenges in the federal court. We are unable at this time to estimate the cost of additions that may be required to meet this new regulation. Our interstate natural gas pipelines consider prudently incurred environmental assessment and remediation costs and the costs associated with compliance with environmental standards to be recoverable through rates. 77 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk Our current interest rate risk exposure is related primarily to our debt portfolio. The majority of our debt portfolio is comprised of fixed rate debt in order to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in interest rates. Any borrowings under our credit facilities could be at a variable interest rate and could expose us to the risk of increasing interest rates. The maturity of our long term debt portfolio is partially influenced by the expected lives of our operating assets. The tables below provide information by maturity date about our interest rate risk sensitive instruments as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. Long term debt in the tables represents principal cash flows, net of (discount) premium, and weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. The fair value of our publicly traded long term debt is valued using indicative year end traded bond market prices. Private debt is valued based on market rates and the prices of similar securities with similar terms and credit ratings. Fair Value December 31, 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter(1) Total 2010 (Millions) Long term debt, including current portion(2): Fixed rate $ 507 $ 352 $ $ $ 750 $ 7,495 $ 9,104 $ 9,990 Interest rate 6.4 % 6.4 % 6.3 % 6.3 % 6.4 % 6.9 % Fair Value December 31, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Thereafter(1) Total 2009 (Millions) Long term debt, including current portion(2): Fixed rate $ 15 $ 936 $ 953 $ $ $ 6,119 $ 8,023 $ 8,905 Interest rate 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 7.7 % 8.0 % Variable rate $ $ $ 250 $ $ $ $ 250 $ 237 Interest rate(3) (1) Includes unamortized discount and premium. (2) Excludes capital leases. (3) The interest rate at December 31, 2009 was LIBOR plus 1 percent. Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to the impact of fluctuations in the market price of natural gas, NGL and crude, as well as other market factors, such as market volatility and energy commodity price correlations. We are exposed to these risks in connection with our owned energy related assets, our long term energy related contracts and our proprietary trading activities. We manage the risks associated with these market fluctuations using various derivatives and nonderivative energy related contracts. The fair value of derivative contracts is subject to many factors, including changes in energy commodity market prices, the liquidity and volatility of the markets in which the contracts are transacted, and changes in interest rates. (See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) We measure the risk in our portfolios using a value at risk methodology to estimate the potential one day loss from adverse changes in the fair value of the portfolios. Value at risk requires a number of key assumptions and is not necessarily representative of actual losses in fair value that could be incurred from the portfolios. Our value at risk model uses a Monte Carlo method to simulate hypothetical movements in future market prices and assumes that, as a result of changes in commodity prices, there is a 95 percent probability that the one day loss in fair value of the portfolios will not exceed the value at risk. The simulation method uses historical correlations and 78 Table of Contents market forward prices and volatilities. In applying the value at risk methodology, we do not consider that the simulated hypothetical movements affect the positions or would cause any potential liquidity issues, nor do we consider that changing the portfolios in response to market conditions could affect market prices and could take longer than a one day holding period to execute. While a one day holding period has historically been the industry standard, a longer holding period could more accurately represent the true market risk given market liquidity and our own credit and liquidity constraints. We segregate our derivative contracts into trading and nontrading contracts, as defined in the following paragraphs. We calculate value at risk separately for these two categories. Contracts designated as normal purchases or sales and nonderivative energy contracts have been excluded from our estimation of value at risk. Trading Our trading portfolio consists of derivative contracts entered into for purposes other than economically hedging our commodity price risk exposure. The fair value of our trading derivatives was a net asset of $2 million at December 31, 2010. The value at risk for contracts held for trading purposes was less than $1 million at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. Nontrading Our nontrading portfolio consists of derivative contracts that hedge or could potentially hedge the price risk exposure from the following activities: Segment Commodity Price Risk Exposure Williams Partners Natural gas purchases NGL sales Exploration Production Natural gas purchases and sales Other NGL purchases The fair value of our nontrading derivatives was a net asset of $282 million at December 31, 2010. The value at risk for derivative contracts held for nontrading purposes was $24 million at December 31, 2010, and $34 million at December 31, 2009. During the year ended December 31, 2010, our value at risk for these contracts ranged from a high of $33 million to a low of $21 million. The decrease in value at risk primarily reflects the realization of certain derivative positions and the market price impact, partially offset by new derivative contracts. Certain of the derivative contracts held for nontrading purposes are accounted for as cash flow hedges. Of the total fair value of nontrading derivatives, cash flow hedges had a net asset value of $266 million as of December 31, 2010. Though these contracts are included in our value at risk calculation, any changes in the fair value of the effective portion of these hedge contracts would generally not be reflected in earnings until the associated hedged item affects earnings. Trading Policy We have policies and procedures that govern our trading and risk management activities. These policies cover authority and delegation thereof in addition to control requirements, authorized commodities and term and exposure limitations. Value at risk is limited in aggregate and calculated at a 95 percent confidence level. Foreign Currency Risk Net assets of our consolidated foreign operations, whose functional currency is the local currency, are located primarily in Canada and approximate 8 percent and 6 percent of our net assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These foreign operations do not have significant transactions or financial instruments denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. However, these investments do have the potential to impact our financial position, due to fluctuations in these local currencies arising from the process of translating the local functional currency into the U.S. dollar. As an example, a 20 percent change in the respective functional currencies against the U.S. dollar would have changed stockholders equity by approximately $117 million at December 31, 2010. 79 Table of Contents 
 
