Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations General We are primarily an energy infrastructure company focused on connecting North Americas significant hydrocarbon resource plays to growing markets for natural gas, natural gas liquids, and olefins. Our operations are located principally in the United States, but span from the deepwater Gulf of Mexico to the Canadian oil sands, and are organized into the Williams Partners and Midstream Canada & Olefins reporting segments. All remaining business activities are included in Other. (See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these segments.) The Williams Partners segment consists of our consolidated master limited partnership, Williams Partners L.P. (WPZ), of which we currently own approximately 72 percent, including the general partner interest. Unless indicated otherwise, the following discussion and analysis of critical accounting estimates, results of operations, and financial condition and liquidity relates to our current continuing operations and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8 of this document. Spin off of WPX On December 1, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a tax free spinoff of 100 percent of our exploration and production business, WPX Energy, Inc. (WPX), to our shareholders. On December 31, 2011, we distributed one share of WPX common stock for every three shares of Williams common stock. As a 46 result, with the exception of the December 31, 2011 balance sheet which no longer includes WPX, the consolidated financial statements reflect the results of operations and financial position of WPX as discontinued operations. Dividend Growth We doubled our quarterly dividends from $0.125 per share in the fourth quarter of 2010 to $0.25 per share in the fourth quarter of 2011. Also, consistent with expected growing cash distributions from our interest in WPZ, we expect continued dividend increases on a quarterly basis. Our Board of Directors has approved a dividend of $0.25875 per share for the first quarter of 2012 and we expect total 2012 dividends to be $1.09 per share, which is approximately 41 percent higher than 2011. Overview Crude oil and NGL prices increased in 2011, while natural gas prices have remained relatively low. We have benefited from this environment as our 2011 income (loss) from continuing operations attributable to The Williams Companies, Inc. increased by $699 million compared to 2010. This increase is primarily reflective of a $460 million improvement in operating profit and $335 million of lower charges associated with early debt retirements in 2011 as compared to 2010. See additional discussion in Results of Operations. Abundant and low cost natural gas reserves in the United States continue to drive strong demand for midstream and pipeline infrastructure. We believe we have successfully positioned our energy infrastructure businesses for significant future growth, as highlighted by the following accomplishments during 2011 through the present: In March 2011, Midstream Canada & Olefins announced a long term agreement under which it will produce up to 17,000 barrels per day of ethane/ethylene mix for a chemical company in Alberta, Canada. We plan to expand two primary facilities located in Alberta to support the new agreement. (See Results of Operations Segments, Midstream Canada & Olefins.) In October 2011, Williams Partners executed an agreement with two significant producers to provide certain production handling services in the eastern deepwater Gulf of Mexico. We will design, construct and install a floating production system (Gulfstar FPS) that will have the capacity to handle 60 thousand barrels per day (Mbbls/d) of oil, up to 200 million cubic feet per day (MMcf/d) of natural gas, and the capability to provide seawater injection services. We expect Gulfstar FPS to be placed into service in 2014 and to be capable of serving as a central host facility for other deepwater prospects in the area. (See Results of Operations Segments, Williams Partners.) During 2011, Williams Partners placed into service expansions of a natural gas transmission system, compression facilities, and line facilities that provide an aggregate additional 599 Mdth/d of incremental firm capacity. We also filed an application with the FERC to increase capacity by 250 Mdth/d by expanding our natural gas transmission system from the Marcellus Shale production region on the Leidy Line to various delivery points in New York and New Jersey. (See Results of Operations Segments, Williams Partners.) In January 2012, Williams Partners placed into service our Springville pipeline that will allow us to initially deliver approximately 300 MMcf/d into the Transco pipeline and full use of approximately 650 MMcf/d of capacity from various compression and dehydration expansion projects to our gathering business in Pennsylvanias Marcellus Shale. (See Results of Operations Segments, Williams Partners.) Discovery, an equity method investee in which we own 60 percent and operate, announced in January 2012 that it signed long term agreements with anchor customers for natural gas gathering and processing services for production from the central deepwater Gulf of Mexico. To provide these services Discovery plans to construct a new deepwater pipeline which will have the capacity to flow approximately 400 MMcf/d and will accommodate the tie in of other deepwater prospects. (See Results of Operations Segments, Williams Partners.) 47 In February 2012, Williams Partners completed the acquisition of 100 percent of the ownership interests in certain entities from Delphi Midstream Partners, LLC. These entities primarily own the Laser Gathering System, which is comprised of 33 miles of 16 inch natural gas pipeline and associated gathering facilities in the Marcellus Shale in Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania, as well as 10 miles of gathering lines in southern New York. This acquisition represents a strategic platform to enhance Williams Partners expansion in the Marcellus Shale by providing our customers with both operational flow assurance and marketing flexibility. (See Results of Operations Segments, Williams Partners.) In February 2012, we announced a new interstate gas pipeline joint venture with Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation. The new 120 mile Constitution Pipeline will connect Williams Partners gathering system in Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania, to the Iroquois Gas Transmission and Tennessee Gas Pipeline systems. We will own 75 percent of Constitution Pipeline. This project, along with the newly acquired Laser Gathering System and our Springville pipeline are key steps in Williams Partners strategy to create the Susquehanna Supply Hub, a major natural gas supply hub in northeastern Pennsylvania. Outlook for 2012 We believe we are well positioned to execute on our 2012 business plan and to further realize our growth opportunities. Economic and commodity price indicators for 2012 and beyond reflect continued improvement in the economic environment. However, these measures can be volatile and it is reasonably possible that the economy could worsen and or commodity prices could decline, negatively impacting our future operating results. Our business plan for 2012 includes planned capital and investment expenditures of at least $3.4 billion, of which we expect to fund primarily through cash on hand, cash flow from operations, and debt and equity issuances by WPZ. Our structure is designed to drive lower capital costs, enhance reliable access to capital markets, and create a greater ability to pursue development projects and acquisitions. We expect to realize our growth opportunities through these continued investments in our businesses in a way that meets customer needs and enhances our competitive position by: Continuing to invest in and grow our gathering, processing, and interstate natural gas pipeline systems; Retaining the flexibility to adjust somewhat our planned levels of capital and investment expenditures in response to changes in economic conditions or business opportunities. Potential risks and or obstacles that could impact the execution of our plan include: Availability of capital; General economic, financial markets, or industry downturn; Lower than anticipated energy commodity margins; Lower than expected levels of cash flow from operations; Counterparty credit and performance risk; Decreased volumes from third parties served by our midstream businesses; Changes in the political and regulatory environments; Physical damages to facilities, especially damage to offshore facilities by named windstorms. We continue to address these risks through disciplined investment strategies, commodity hedging strategies, and maintaining at least $1 billion in consolidated liquidity from cash and cash equivalents and unused revolving credit facilities. Accounting Pronouncements Issued But Not Yet Adopted Accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet adopted may have an effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements in the future. See Accounting Standards Issued But Not Yet Adopted in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on recently issued accounting standards. 48 Critical Accounting Estimate The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions. We have reviewed the selection, application, and disclosure of these critical accounting estimates with our Audit Committee. We believe that the nature of these estimates and assumptions is material due to the subjectivity and judgment necessary, or the susceptibility of such matters to change, and the impact of these on our financial condition or results of operations. Pension and Postretirement Obligations We have employee benefit plans that include pension and other postretirement benefits. Net periodic benefit expense and obligations for these plans are impacted by various estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include the expected long term rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, expected rate of compensation increase, health care cost trend rates, and employee demographics, including retirement age and mortality. These assumptions are reviewed annually and adjustments are made as needed. The assumptions utilized to compute expense and the benefit obligations are shown in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table presents the estimated increase (decrease) in net periodic benefit expense and obligations resulting from a one percentage point change in the specific assumption. Benefit Expense Benefit Obligation One Percentage PointIncrease One Percentage PointDecrease One Percentage PointIncrease One Percentage PointDecrease (Millions) Pension benefits: Discount rate $ (8 ) $ 9 $ (141 ) $ 168 Expected long term rate of return on plan assets (10 ) 10 Rate of compensation increase 2 (1 ) 10 (8 ) Other postretirement benefits: Discount rate (4 ) 5 (43 ) 53 Expected long term rate of return on plan assets (2 ) 2 Assumed health care cost trend rate 6 (5 ) 47 (39 ) Our expected long term rates of return on plan assets, as determined at the beginning of each fiscal year, are based on the average rate of return expected on the funds invested in the plans. We determine our long term expected rates of return on plan assets using our expectations of capital market results, which includes an analysis of historical results as well as forward looking projections. These capital market expectations are based on a long term period of at least ten years and consider our investment strategy and mix of assets, which is weighted toward domestic and international equity securities. We develop our expectations using input from several external sources, including consultation with our third party independent investment consultant. The forward looking capital market projections are developed using a consensus of economists expectations for inflation, GDP growth, and dividend yield along with expected changes in risk premiums. The capital market return projections for specific asset classes in the investment portfolio are then applied to the relative weightings of the asset classes in the investment portfolio. The resulting rates are an estimate of future results and, thus, likely to be different than actual results. In 2011, the fixed income exposure in the investment portfolios benefited while equities, particularly U.S. small capitalization stocks and international stocks, negatively impacted portfolio returns. While the 2011 investment performance did not meet our expected rates of return, the expected rates of return on plan assets are long term in nature and are not significantly impacted by short term market performance. Changes to our asset 49 allocation would also impact these expected rates of return. The 2011 actual return on plan assets for our pension plans was breakeven for the year. The ten year average rate of return on pension plan assets through December 2011 was approximately 4.1 percent. The discount rates are used to measure the benefit obligations of our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The objective of the discount rates is to determine the amount, if invested at the December 31 measurement date in a portfolio of high quality debt securities, that will provide the necessary cash flows when benefit payments are due. Increases in the discount rates decrease the obligation and, generally, decrease the related expense. The discount rates for our pension and other postretirement benefit plans are determined separately based on an approach specific to our plans and their respective expected benefit cash flows as described in Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our discount rate assumptions are impacted by changes in general economic and market conditions that affect interest rates on long term, high quality debt securities as well as by the duration of our plans liabilities. The expected rate of compensation increase represents average long term salary increases. An increase in this rate causes the pension obligation and expense to increase. The assumed health care cost trend rates are based on national trend rates adjusted for our actual historical cost rates and plan design. An increase in this rate causes the other postretirement benefit obligation and expense to increase. 50 Results of Operations Consolidated Overview The following table and discussion is a summary of our consolidated results of operations for the three years ended December 31, 2011. The results of operations by segment are discussed in further detail following this consolidated overview discussion. Years Ended December 31, 2011 $ Changefrom2010* % Changefrom2010* 2010 $ Changefrom2009* % Changefrom2009* 2009 (Millions) Revenues $ 7,930 +1,292 +19 % $ 6,638 +1,360 +26 % $ 5,278 Costs and expenses: Costs and operating expenses 5,550 838 18 % 4,712 1,000 27 % 3,712 Selling, general and administrative expenses 325 12 4 % 313 +17 +5 % 330 Other (income) expense net 1 16 NM (15 ) 19 56 % (34 ) General corporate expenses 187 +34 +15 % 221 57 35 % 164 Total costs and expenses 6,063 5,231 4,172 Operating income (loss) 1,867 1,407 1,106 Interest accrued net (573 ) +19 +3 % (592 ) +3 +1 % (595 ) Investing income net 168 20 11 % 188 +150 NM 38 Early debt retirement costs (271 ) +335 +55 % (606 ) 605 NM (1 ) Other income (expense) net 11 +23 NM (12 ) 14 NM 2 Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes 1,202 385 550 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 124 10 9 % 114 +90 +44 % 204 Income (loss) from continuing operations 1,078 271 346 Income (loss) from discontinued operations (417 ) +776 +65 % (1,193 ) 1,208 NM 15 Net income (loss) 661 (922 ) 361 Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 285 110 63 % 175 99 130 % 76 Net income (loss) attributable to The Williams Companies, Inc. $ 376 $ (1,097 ) $ 285 * + Favorable change; Unfavorable change; NM A percentage calculation is not meaningful due to a change in signs, a zero value denominator, or a percentage change greater than 200. 2011 vs. 2010 The increase in revenues is primarily due to higher marketing and NGL production revenues at Williams Partners as a result of higher average energy commodity prices, partially offset by a decrease in equity NGL production volumes. Additionally, fee revenues increased at Williams Partners primarily due to higher gathering, processing, and transportation fees. Midstream Canada & Olefins ethylene and Canadian NGL production revenues increased primarily resulting from higher average energy commodity prices and higher volumes. 51 The increase in costs and operating expenses is primarily due to increased costs associated with marketing purchases and operating costs at Williams Partners, partially offset by a decrease in NGL production costs. The higher marketing purchases are due to higher average energy commodity prices. Additionally, ethylene and NGL feedstock costs increased at Midstream Canada & Olefins reflecting higher average per unit feedstock costs and higher volumes. The unfavorable change in other (income) expense net within operating income primarily reflects: $15 million of lower involuntary conversion gains in 2011 as compared to 2010 at Williams Partners due to insurance recoveries that are in excess of the carrying value of the assets; The absence of a $12 million gain in 2010 on the sale of certain assets at Williams Partners; The absence of a $6 million favorable customer settlement in 2010 at Midstream Canada & Olefins; $4 million lower sales of base gas from Hester Storage field in 2011 compared to 2010 at Williams Partners. These unfavorable changes are partially offset by: $19 million of income related to the Gulf Liquids litigation contingency accrual reduction in 2011 at Midstream Canada & Olefins (see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements); $10 million related to the reversal of project feasibility costs from expense to capital in 2011 at Williams Partners (see Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The decrease in general corporate expenses is primarily due to the absence of $45 million of transaction costs incurred in 2010 associated with our strategic restructuring transaction. The favorable change in operating income (loss) generally reflects an improved energy commodity price environment in 2011 compared to 2010, increased fee revenues, and the absence of costs associated with the strategic restructuring in 2010, partially offset by higher operating costs and an unfavorable change in other (income) expense net as previously discussed. The unfavorable change in investing income net is primarily due to $32 million of decreased gains recognized in 2011 related to the 2010 sale of our interest in Accroven SRL. (See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) This decrease is partially offset by an increase of $12 million in equity earnings, primarily at Williams Partners related to an increased ownership interest in Overland Pass Pipeline Company LLC. Early debt retirement costs in 2011 reflect costs related to corporate debt retirements in December 2011, including $254 million in related premiums. (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Early debt retirement costs in 2010 reflect costs related to corporate debt retirements associated with our first quarter 2010 strategic restructuring transaction, including premiums of $574 million. Other (income) expense net below operating income (loss) changed favorably primarily due to a $11 million decrease in environmental accruals in 2011 as compared to 2010. Provision (benefit) for income taxes changed unfavorably primarily due to higher pre tax income, partially offset by federal settlements in 2011 and an adjustment to reverse taxes on undistributed earnings of certain foreign operations that are now considered permanently reinvested. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a reconciliation of the effective tax rates compared to the federal statutory rate for both years. Income (loss) from discontinued operations reflects the results of operations of our former exploration and production business as discontinued operations. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The unfavorable change in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests reflects higher operating results at WPZ and increased noncontrolling interest ownership of WPZ as a result of WPZ equity issuances in 2010. These changes are partially offset by our greater ownership interest related to WPZs merger with Williams Pipeline Partners L.P., which was completed in 2010. 52 2010 vs. 2009 The increase in revenues is primarily due to higher marketing and NGL production revenues resulting from higher average energy commodity prices at Williams Partners. NGL and olefin production revenues at Midstream Canada & Olefins also increased due to higher average per unit prices. The increase in costs and operating expenses is primarily due to increased marketing purchases and NGL production costs at Williams Partners, reflecting higher average energy commodity prices. Additionally, NGL and olefin production costs at Midstream Canada & Olefins increased due to higher average per unit feedstock costs. Other (income) expense net within operating income (loss) in 2009 includes a $40 million gain on the sale of our Cameron Meadows NGL processing plant at Williams Partners. General corporate expenses in 2010 includes $45 million of transaction costs associated with our strategic restructuring transaction as discussed above. The favorable change in operating income (loss) is primarily due to an improved energy commodity price environment in 2010 compared to 2009. The favorable change is partially offset by $45 million of transaction costs in 2010 associated with our strategic restructuring transaction and an unfavorable change in other (income) expense net. The increase in investing income net is primarily due to the absence of a $75 million impairment charge in 2009 and a $43 million gain in 2010 on the sale of our 50 percent interest in Accroven at Other, and a $28 million increase in equity earnings at Williams Partners. Early debt retirement costs in 2010 reflect costs related to corporate debt retirements associated with our first quarter strategic restructuring transaction, including premiums of $574 million. Other (income) expense net below operating income (loss) in 2010 includes an $8 million environmental expense accrual associated with former refinery operations. Provision (benefit) for income taxes changed favorably primarily due to lower pre tax income. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a reconciliation of the effective tax rates compared to the federal statutory rate for both years. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the items in income (loss) from discontinued operations. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased reflecting higher results at WPZ due to an improved energy commodity price environment in 2010 compared to 2009, as well as the impact of the first quarter 2009 impairments and related charges associated with our discontinued Venezuela operations. Results of Operations Segments Williams Partners Our Williams Partners segment includes WPZ, our consolidated master limited partnership, which includes two interstate natural gas pipelines, as well as investments in natural gas pipeline related companies, which serve regions from the San Juan basin in northwestern New Mexico and southwestern Colorado to Oregon and Washington and from the Gulf of Mexico to the northeastern United States. WPZ also includes natural gas gathering, processing, and treating facilities and oil gathering and transportation facilities located primarily in the Rocky Mountain and Gulf Coast regions of the United States. As of December 31, 2011, we own approximately 75 percent of the interests in WPZ, including the interests of the general partner, which is wholly owned by us, and incentive distribution rights. 53 Williams Partners ongoing strategy is to safely and reliably operate large scale, interstate natural gas transmission and midstream infrastructures where our assets can be fully utilized and drive low per unit costs. We focus on consistently attracting new business by providing highly reliable service to our customers and utilizing our low cost of capital to invest in growing markets, including the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the Marcellus Shale, the western United States, and areas of increasing natural gas demand. Williams Partners interstate transmission and related storage activities are subject to regulation by the FERC and as such, our rates and charges for the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, and the extension, expansion or abandonment of jurisdictional facilities and accounting, among other things, are subject to regulation. The rates are established through the FERCs ratemaking process. Changes in commodity prices and volumes transported have little near term impact on revenues because the majority of cost of service is recovered through firm capacity reservation charges in transportation rates. Overview of 2011 Significant events during 2011 include the following: Laser Northeast Gathering System Acquisition In February 2012, we acquired the Laser Northeast Gathering System and other midstream businesses from Delphi Midstream Partners, LLC for $325 million in cash, net of cash acquired in the transaction and subject to certain closing adjustments, and approximately 7.5 million of WPZs common units. The Laser Gathering System is comprised of 33 miles of 16 inch natural gas pipeline and associated gathering facilities in Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania, as well as 10 miles of gathering pipeline in southern New York. The acquisition is supported by existing long term gathering agreements that provide acreage dedications and volume commitments. As production in the Marcellus increases, the Laser system is expected to reach a capacity of 1.3 Bcf/d. Marcellus Shale Gathering Asset Transition and Expansion Our Springville pipeline was placed into service in January 2012, allowing us to deliver approximately 300 MMcf/d into the Transco pipeline. This new take away capacity allows full use of approximately 650 MMcf/d of capacity from various compression and dehydration expansion projects to our gathering business in northeastern Pennsylvanias Marcellus Shale which we acquired at the end of 2010. In conjunction with a long term agreement with a significant producer, we are operating the 33 mile, 24 inch diameter natural gas gathering pipeline, connecting a portion of our gathering assets into the Transco pipeline. Expansions to the Springville compression facilities in 2012 are expected to increase the capacity to approximately 625 MMcf/d. Construction of a new noncontiguous gathering system is complete and was placed into service in October 2011. This system currently has the capacity to deliver approximately 50 MMcf/d into a third party interstate pipeline via the newly acquired Laser gathering system. In early 2011, we assumed the operational activities for these gathering systems in northeastern Pennsylvanias Marcellus Shale which we acquired at the end of 2010. The acquired business included 75 miles of gathering pipelines and two compressor stations. We expect to expand this gathering system to a planned capacity of 1.7 Bcf/d by 2015. Keathley Canyon Connector Our equity investee, Discovery, plans to construct, own, and operate a new 215 mile 20 inch deepwater lateral pipeline for production from the Keathley Canyon Connector, Walker Ridge, and Green Canyon areas in the central deepwater Gulf of Mexico. Discovery has signed long term agreements with anchor customers for natural gas gathering and processing services for production from those fields. The Keathley Canyon Connector lateral will originate from a third party floating production facility in the southeast portion of the Keathley Canyon Connector area and will connect to Discoverys existing 30 inch offshore gas transmission 54 system. The lateral pipeline is estimated to have the capacity to flow more than 400 MMcf/d and will accommodate the tie in of other deepwater prospects. Construction is expected to begin in 2013, with a mid 2014 in service date. Gulfstar FPS Deepwater Project In October 2011, we executed agreements with two significant producers to provide production handling services for the Tubular Bells discovery located in the eastern deepwater Gulf of Mexico. The operator of the Tubular Bells field will utilize our proprietary floating production system, Gulfstar FPS. We expect Gulfstar FPS to be capable of serving as a central host facility for other deepwater prospects in the area. We will design, construct, and install our Gulfstar FPS with a capacity of 60 Mbbls/d of oil, up to 200 MMcf/d of natural gas, and the capability to provide seawater injection services. The facility is a spar based floating production system that utilizes a standard design approach that will allow customers to reduce their cycle time from discovery to first production. Construction is underway and the project is expected to be in service in 2014. Eagle Ford Shale We have completed construction on a pipeline segment and related modifications necessary to reverse the flow of an existing Transco pipeline segment in southwest Texas, which began to gather south Texas gas to our Markham gas processing facility in the second quarter of 2011. In addition, we connected a third party pipeline to our Markham plant during the third quarter that is delivering Eagle Ford Shale gas to the plant. We have executed both fee based and keep whole processing agreements which we expect will increase utilization of our Markham facility to the full gas processing capacity. Markham is subject to limited NGL take away capacity until third party pipeline connections are completed in early 2013. Perdido Norte During the fourth quarter of 2010, both oil and gas production began to flow on a sustained basis through our Perdido Norte expansion, located in the western deepwater of the Gulf of Mexico. The project included a 200 MMcf/d expansion of our Markham gas processing facility and a total of 179 miles of deepwater oil and gas lines that expand the scale of our existing infrastructure. While 2011 production volumes were significantly lower than originally expected, they have increased each quarter of 2011 as producers have resolved several technical issues. With these improvements and with the addition of a new well, we anticipate volumes in 2012 to be higher than in 2011. Gulfstream In May 2011, an entity reported within Other contributed a 24.5 percent interest in Gulfstream to WPZ in exchange for aggregate consideration of $297 million of cash, 632,584 limited partner units, and an increase in the capital account of WPZs general partner to maintain the 2 percent general partner interest. Williams Partners now holds a 49 percent interest in Gulfstream. Prior period segment disclosures have not been adjusted for this transaction as the impact, which was less than 2.5 percent of Williams Partners segment profit for all periods affected, was not material. Overland Pass Pipeline We became the operator of OPPL effective April 1, 2011. We own a 50 percent interest in OPPL which includes a 760 mile NGL pipeline from Opal, Wyoming, to the Mid Continent NGL market center in Conway, Kansas, along with 150 and 125 mile extensions into the Piceance and Denver Julesburg basins in Colorado, respectively. Our equity NGL volumes from our two Wyoming plants and our Willow Creek plant in Colorado are dedicated for transport on OPPL under a long term shipping agreement. We plan to participate in the construction of a pipeline connection and capacity expansions, expected to be complete in early 2013, to increase the pipelines capacity to the maximum of 255 Mbbls/d, to accommodate new volumes coming from the Bakken Shale in the Williston basin. 55 Laurel Mountain The initial phases of the Shamrock compressor station are in service, providing 60 MMcf/d of additional capacity, with further expansions planned in 2012. This compressor station is expandable to 350 MMcf/d and will likely be the largest central delivery point out of the Laurel Mountain system. Our equity investee continues to progress on further additions to the gathering infrastructure. Volatile commodity prices Average per unit NGL margins in 2011 were significantly higher than in 2010, benefiting from a strong demand for NGLs resulting in higher NGL prices and slightly lower natural gas prices driven by abundant natural gas supplies. NGL margins are defined as NGL revenues less any applicable BTU replacement cost, plant fuel, and third party transportation and fractionation. Per unit NGL margins are calculated based on sales of our own equity volumes at the processing plants. Our equity volumes include NGLs where we own the rights to the value from NGLs recovered at our plants under both keep whole processing agreements, where we have the obligation to replace the lost heating value with natural gas, and percent of liquids agreements whereby we receive a portion of the extracted liquids with no obligation to replace the lost heating value. 85 North project In September 2009, we received approval from the FERC to construct an expansion of our existing natural gas transmission system from Alabama to various delivery points as far north as North Carolina. Phase I was placed into service in July 2010 and it provides 90 thousand dekatherms per day (Mdth/d) of incremental firm capacity. Phase II was placed into service in May 2011 and it provides 219 Mdth/d of incremental firm capacity. 56 Mobile Bay South II project In July 2010, we received approval from the FERC to construct additional compression facilities and modifications to existing Mobile Bay line facilities in Alabama allowing transportation service to various southbound delivery points. The project was placed into service in May 2011 and provides incremental firm capacity of 380 Mdth/d. Outlook for 2012 The following factors could impact our business in 2012. Commodity price changes We expect our average per unit NGL margins in 2012 to be comparable to 2011 and higher than our rolling five year average per unit NGL margins. NGL price changes have historically tracked somewhat with changes in the price of crude oil, although NGL, crude and natural gas prices are highly volatile, difficult to predict, and are often not highly correlated. NGL margins are highly dependent upon continued demand within the global economy. However, NGL products are currently the preferred feedstock for ethylene and propylene production, which has been shifting away from the more expensive crude based feedstocks. Bolstered by abundant long term domestic natural gas supplies, we expect to benefit from these dynamics in the broader global petrochemical markets. As part of our efforts to manage commodity price risks on an enterprise basis, we continue to evaluate our commodity hedging strategies. To reduce the exposure to changes in market prices in 2012, we have entered into NGL swap agreements to fix the prices of approximately 5 percent of our anticipated NGL sales volumes and an approximate corresponding portion of anticipated shrink gas requirements for 2012. The combined impact of these energy commodity derivatives will provide a margin on the hedged volumes of $106 million. The following table presents our energy commodity hedging instruments as of February 15, 2012. Period VolumesHedged WeightedAverage HedgePrice (per gallon) Designated as hedging instruments: NGL sales isobutane (million gallons) Feb Dec 2012 12.8 $ 1.89 NGL sales normal butane (million gallons) Feb Dec 2012 19.3 $ 1.79 NGL sales natural gasoline (million gallons) Feb Dec 2012 29.0 $ 2.27 (per MMbtu) Natural gas purchases (Tbtu) Feb Dec 2012 6.5 $ 2.76 Gathering, processing, and NGL sales volumes The growth of natural gas supplies supporting our gathering and processing volumes are impacted by producer drilling activities, which are influenced by natural gas prices. In Williams Partners onshore midstream businesses, we anticipate significant growth in our gas gathering volumes as our infrastructure grows to support drilling activities in northeast Pennsylvania. We anticipate slight increases in gas gathering volumes in the Piceance basin and no change or slight declines in basins in the Rocky Mountain and Four Corners areas due to reduced drilling activity. We anticipate equity NGL volumes in 2012 to be comparable to 2011, as we expect little change in the volume of gas processed in the western onshore businesses. Sustained low gas prices could discourage producer drilling activities in our onshore areas and unfavorably impact the supply of natural gas available to gather and process in the long term. 57 In Williams Partners gulf coast businesses, we expect higher gas gathering, processing, and crude transportation volumes as production flowing through our Perdido Norte pipelines becomes consistent and other in process drilling is completed. Increases in permitting, subsequent to the 2010 drilling moratorium, give us reason to expect gradual increased drilling activities in the Gulf of Mexico. In the Gulf Coast, our customers drilling activities are primarily focused on crude oil economics, rather than natural gas. We have not experienced, and do not anticipate an overall significant decline in volumes due to reduced drilling activities. The operator of the third party fractionator serving our NGL production transported on Overland Pass Pipeline has notified us of an expected 20 to 25 day outage in the second quarter of 2012 to accommodate their expansion efforts. The outage could result in a reduction to our equity volumes of up to approximately 20 million to 25 million gallons, along with price impacts; however we are evaluating methods to mitigate the impact. We anticipate higher general and administrative, operating, and depreciation expense supporting our growing operations in northeast Pennsylvania, Piceance basin, and western Gulf of Mexico. Expansion Projects We have planned growth capital and investment expenditures of $2,305 million to $2,535 million in 2012. We plan to pursue expansion and growth opportunities in the Marcellus Shale region, Gulf of Mexico, and Piceance basin. Our ongoing major expansion projects include: Marcellus Shale & Gulf of Mexico As previously discussed, our ongoing major expansions to our gathering infrastructure in the Marcellus Shale region in northeastern Pennsylvania, including the acquisition of the Laser gathering system and related planned additions, expansions within our Laurel Mountain equity investment, also in the Marcellus Shale region, as well as our Gulfstar FPS floating production system and Discoverys Keathley Canyon Connector pipeline, both located in the Gulf of Mexico. Parachute In conjunction with a new basin wide agreement for all gathering and processing services provided by us to a customer in the Piceance basin, we plan to construct a 350 MMcf/d cryogenic gas processing plant. The Parachute TXP I plant is expected to be in service in 2014. Mid South In August 2011, we received approval from the FERC to upgrade compressor facilities and expand our existing natural gas transmission system from Alabama to markets as far north as North Carolina. The cost of the project is estimated to be $217 million. The project is expected to be phased into service in September 2012 and June 2013, with an expected increase in capacity of 225 Mdth/d. Mid Atlantic Connector In July 2011, we received approval from the FERC to expand our existing natural gas transmission system from North Carolina to markets as far downstream as Maryland. The cost of the project is estimated to be $55 million and is expected to increase capacity by 142 Mdth/d. We plan to place the project into service in November 2012. Northeast Supply Link In December 2011, we filed an application with the FERC to expand our existing natural gas transmission system from the Marcellus Shale production region on the Leidy Line to various delivery 58 points in New York and New Jersey. The cost of the project is estimated to be $341 million and is expected to increase capacity by 250 Mdth/d. We plan to place the project into service in November 2013. Eminence Storage Field Leak On December 28, 2010, we detected a leak in one of the seven underground natural gas storage caverns at our Eminence Storage Field in Mississippi. Due to the leak and related damage to the well at an adjacent cavern, both caverns are out of service. In addition, two other caverns at the field, which were constructed at or about the same time as those caverns, have experienced operating problems, and we have determined that they should also be retired. The event has not affected the performance of our obligations under our service agreements with our customers. In September 2011, we filed an application with the FERC seeking authorization to abandon these four caverns. We estimate the total abandonment costs, which will be capital in nature, will be approximately $76 million which is expected to be spent through the first half of 2013. Through December 31, 2011, we have incurred approximately $38 million in abandonment costs. This estimate is subject to change as work progresses and additional information becomes known. Management considers these costs to be prudent costs incurred in the abandonment of these caverns and expects to recover these costs, net of insurance proceeds, in future rate filings. To the extent available, the abandonment costs will be funded from the ARO Trust. (See Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) For the year ended December 31, 2011, we incurred approximately $15 million of expense related primarily to assessment and monitoring costs to ensure the safety of the surrounding area. Filing of rate cases During 2012, we expect to file rate cases for both Transco and Northwest Pipeline, which are expected to result in new transportation and storage rates beginning in 2013. Year Over Year Operating Results Year ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 6,729 $ 5,715 $ 4,602 Segment profit $ 1,896 $ 1,574 $ 1,317 2011 vs. 2010 The increase in segment revenues includes: A $589 million increase in marketing revenues primarily due to higher average NGL and crude prices. These changes are substantially offset by similar changes in marketing purchases. A $244 million increase in revenues from our equity NGLs reflecting an increase of $272 million associated with a 25 percent increase in average NGL per unit sales prices, partially offset by a decrease of $28 million associated with a 3 percent decrease in equity NGL volumes. A $103 million increase in fee revenues primarily due to higher gathering and processing fee revenues. We have fees from new volumes on our gathering assets in the Marcellus Shale in northeastern Pennsylvania, which we acquired at the end of 2010, and on our Perdido Norte gas and oil pipelines in the western deepwater Gulf of Mexico, which went into service in late 2010. In addition, higher fees in the Piceance basin are primarily a result of an agreement executed in November 2010. These increases 59 are partially offset by a decline in gathering and transportation fees in the eastern deepwater Gulf of Mexico primarily due to natural field declines. A $68 million increase in transportation revenues associated with natural gas pipeline expansion projects placed in service during 2010 and 2011. The increase in segment costs and expenses of $725 million includes: A $574 million increase in marketing purchases primarily due to higher average NGL and crude prices. These changes are offset by similar changes in marketing revenues. A $136 million increase in operating costs reflecting $84 million higher maintenance expenses, including maintenance expenses for our gathering assets in northeastern Pennsylvania acquired at the end of 2010, more maintenance performed on our assets in the western onshore businesses, additional maintenance related to the Eminence storage leak, and higher property insurance expense. In addition, depreciation expense is $43 million higher primarily due to our new Perdido Norte pipelines and our Echo Springs expansion, both of which went into service in late 2010, along with accelerated depreciation of our Lybrook plant which was idled in January 2012 when the gas was redirected to our Ignacio plant. The absence of $30 million in gains recognized in 2010 associated with sale of certain assets in Colorados Piceance basin and involuntary conversion gains due to insurance recoveries in excess of the carrying value. A $42 million decrease in costs associated with our equity NGLs reflecting a decrease of $21 million associated with a 5 percent decrease in average natural gas prices and a $21 million decrease reflecting lower equity NGL volumes. The increase in William Partners segment profit includes: $286 million of higher NGL production margins reflecting favorable commodity price changes. A $103 million increase in fee revenues as previously discussed. A $68 million increase in transportation revenues associated with natural gas pipeline expansion projects placed in service during 2010 and 2011. A $15 million increase in margins related to the marketing of NGLs and crude. A $33 million increase in equity earnings primarily due to the acquisition of additional interest in Gulfstream and an increased ownership interest in OPPL. A $136 million increase in operating costs as previously discussed. A $30 million unfavorable change related to gains recognized in 2010 as previously discussed. 2010 vs. 2009 The increase in segment revenues includes: A $699 million increase in marketing revenues primarily due to higher average NGL and crude prices. These changes are more than offset by similar changes in marketing purchases. A $330 million increase in revenues associated with the production of NGLs reflecting an increase of $335 million associated with a 41 percent increase in average NGL per unit sales prices. A $56 million increase in fee revenues primarily due to higher gathering revenue in the Piceance basin as a result of permitted increases in the cost of service gathering rate in 2010. The increase in segment costs and expenses of $884 million includes: A $721 million increase in marketing purchases primarily due to higher average NGL and crude prices. These changes are substantially offset by similar changes in marketing revenues. 60 A $107 million increase in costs associated with the production of NGLs reflecting an increase of $101 million associated with a 30 percent increase in average natural gas prices. A $19 million increase in operating costs including $12 million higher depreciation primarily due to the new Perdido Norte pipelines and a full year of depreciation on our Willow Creek facility which was placed into service in the latter part of 2009. The absence of a $40 million gain on the sale of our Cameron Meadows processing plant in 2009, partially offset by smaller gains in 2010. Gains recognized in 2010 include involuntary conversion gains due to insurance recoveries in excess of the carrying value of our gulf assets which were damaged by Hurricane Ike in 2008 and our Ignacio plant, which was damaged by a fire in 2007, as well as gains associated with sales of certain assets in Colorados Piceance basin. The increase in William Partners segment profit includes: $223 million of higher NGL production margins reflecting higher NGL prices, partially offset by increased production costs associated with higher natural gas prices. NGL equity volumes were slightly higher due primarily to new production at Willow Creek, partially offset by the absence of favorable customer contractual changes and decreasing inventory levels in 2009. $28 million increase in equity earnings, including a $10 million increase from Discovery primarily due to higher processing margins and new volumes from the Tahiti pipeline lateral expansion completed in 2009. In addition, equity earnings from Aux Sable are $10 million higher primarily due to higher processing margins, and equity earnings from our increased investment in OPPL were $5 million. A $56 million increase in fee revenues as previously discussed. A $22 million decrease in margins related to the marketing of NGLs and crude primarily due to lower favorable changes in pricing while product was in transit in 2010 as compared to 2009. A $19 million increase in operating costs as previously discussed. A $14 million unfavorable change related to the disposal of assets as previously discussed. Midstream Canada & Olefins Our Midstream Canada & Olefins segment includes our oil sands off gas processing plant near Fort McMurray, Alberta, our NGL/olefin fractionation facility and butylene/butane (B/B) splitter facility at Redwater, Alberta, our NGL light feed olefins cracker in Geismar, Louisiana along with associated ethane and propane pipelines, and our refinery grade propylene splitter in Louisiana. The products we produce are: NGLs, ethylene, propylene, and other co products. Our NGL products include: propane, normal butane, isobutane/butylene (butylene), and condensate. Prior to the operation of the B/B splitter, we also produced and sold B/B mix product which is now separated and sold as butylene and normal butane. Significant events for 2011 We signed a long term agreement to initially produce 10,000 barrels per day (bbls/d) of ethane/ethylene mix for a third party customer. We expect that we will ultimately increase our production of ethane/ethylene mix to 17,000 bbls/d and we expect to complete our expansions necessary to produce the initial barrels in the first quarter of 2013. Outlook for 2012 The following factors could impact our business in 2012. Commodity margin changes While per unit margins are volatile and highly dependent upon continued demand within the global economy, we believe that our gross commodity margins will be comparable or increase slightly over 2011 levels. NGL products are currently the preferred feedstock for ethylene and propylene production which has been 61 shifting away from the more expensive crude based feedstocks. Bolstered by abundant long term domestic natural gas supplies, we expect to benefit from these dynamics in the broader global petrochemical markets because of our NGL based olefins production. Allocation of capital to projects We expect to spend $600 million to $700 million in 2012 on capital projects. The major expansion projects include: The Boreal Pipeline project, which is a 12 inch diameter pipeline in Canada that will transport recovered NGLs and olefins from our extraction plant in Fort McMurray to our Redwater fractionation facility. The pipeline will have sufficient capacity to transport additional recovered liquids in excess of those from our current agreements. Construction is well underway and we anticipate an in service date in the second quarter of 2012. An expansion of our Geismar olefins production facility which is expected to increase the facilitys ethylene production capacity by 600 million pounds per year to a new annual capacity of 1.95 billion pounds. We are currently in the detailed engineering and procurement phase and expect to complete the expansion in the latter part of 2013. The ethane recovery project, which is an expansion of our Canadian facilities that will allow us to recover ethane/ethylene mix from our operations that process off gas from the Alberta oil sands. We plan to modify our oil sands off gas extraction plant near Fort McMurray, Alberta, and construct a de ethanizer at our Redwater fractionation facility. Our de ethanizer is expected to initially process approximately 10,000 bbls/d of ethane/ethylene mix. As previously mentioned, we have signed a long term contract to provide the ethane/ethylene mix to a third party customer. Construction began in the fourth quarter of 2011 and we expect to complete the expansions and begin producing ethane/ethylene mix in the first quarter of 2013. Year Over Year Operating Results Year ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 1,312 $ 1,033 $ 753 Segment profit $ 296 $ 172 $ 37 2011 vs. 2010 Segment revenues increased primarily due to: $126 million higher ethylene production sales revenues due to 28 percent higher average per unit sales prices on 6 percent higher volumes primarily resulting from the absence of a four week plant maintenance outage in 2010. $79 million higher NGL production revenues primarily resulting from: Higher average per unit sales prices driven by a change in our Canadian product mix. Through mid 2010, we sold B/B mix product, but in August 2010, we began producing and selling both butylene and normal butane that was produced by our new B/B splitter. The separated products receive higher values in the marketplace than the B/B mix sold previously. Higher NGL sales prices resulting from higher market prices. 29 percent increased sales volumes on our Canadian butylene and normal butane products primarily due to lower volume impact of operational and maintenance issues in 2011 as compared to 2010. 62 $37 million higher propylene production revenues due to $68 million higher revenues from 26 percent higher average per unit sales prices, partially offset by $31 million lower revenues resulting from 10 percent lower overall propylene production sales volumes. The lower sales volumes were primarily due to the net impact of the following: 18 percent lower volumes at our Louisiana refinery grade propylene splitter primarily due to marketing and supply and third party storage constraints, and customer outages. The impact of the lower propylene splitter sales was substantially offset by similar changes in related costs. 10 percent higher propylene sales volumes at our Canadian facility primarily due to lower volume impact of operational and maintenance issues in 2011 as compared to 2010. $30 million higher butadiene and debutanized aromatic concentrate (DAC) production sales revenues primarily due to higher average per unit sales prices. Segment costs and expenses increased $155 million primarily as a result of: $93 million higher ethylene feedstock costs resulting from higher average per unit feedstock costs and 6 percent higher volumes. $17 million higher operating and maintenance expenses primarily resulting from higher repairs and maintenance at our Canadian facilities and Geismar plant. $14 million higher NGL feedstock costs primarily due to higher average per unit feedstock costs on certain products and increased volumes on our Canadian butylene and normal butane products primarily due to reduced maintenance and operational issues. $14 million higher propylene feedstock costs resulting from $36 million higher costs from 19 percent higher average per unit feedstock costs, partially offset by $22 million lower costs related to reduced propylene feedstock volumes primarily from the lower volumes at our Louisiana refinery grade splitter described above. $11 million higher butadiene and DAC feedstock costs primarily due to higher per unit feedstock costs. $6 million higher general and administrative costs. The absence of a $6 million favorable customer settlement in 2010. These increases were partially offset by $19 million of 2011 income related to the reduction of our accrual for the Gulf Liquids litigation. (See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) Segment profit increased primarily due to: $42 million higher Canadian NGL production margins on the butylene and normal butane products primarily resulting from higher average per unit margins primarily driven by a change in product mix, higher NGL sales prices, and higher volumes. $33 million higher Geismar ethylene production margins due to 27 percent higher per unit margins on 6 percent higher volumes. $24 million higher Canadian propylene production margins resulting from 37 percent higher per unit margins and 10 percent higher volumes. $23 million higher Canadian propane production margins due to 37 percent higher per unit margins and 5 percent higher volumes. $19 million higher Geismar butadiene and DAC production margins primarily resulting from higher average per unit margins. $19 million of 2011 income related to the reduction of our accrual for the Gulf Liquids litigation. (See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) 63 These increases were partially offset by $17 million higher operating and maintenance expenses, $6 million higher general and administrative costs and the absence of a $6 million favorable customer settlement in 2010. 2010 vs. 2009 Segment revenues increased primarily due to: $307 million higher NGL and olefins production revenues resulting from higher average per unit prices. The new B/B splitter began producing and selling both butylene and normal butane in August 2010 and resulted in $22 million additional sales revenues over the 2009 B/B mix product sold. The separated products receive higher values in the marketplace than the B/B mix sold previously. $27 million higher marketing revenues due to general increases in energy commodity prices on slightly higher volumes. The higher marketing revenues were more than offset by similar changes in marketing purchases described below. Partially offsetting the increased revenue was a $57 million decrease from lower sales volumes primarily due to: 11 percent lower Geismar ethylene sales volumes, including the impact of a four week plant maintenance outage at our Geismar plant during the fourth quarter of 2010. 12 percent lower propylene volumes sold primarily due to the absence of certain large 2009 propylene inventory sales and lower volumes available for processing at our Louisiana refinery grade propylene splitter. Segment costs and expenses increased $145 million primarily as a result of: $156 million higher NGL and olefins production product costs resulting from higher average per unit feedstock costs. $29 million increased marketing purchases due to general increases in energy commodity prices on slightly higher volumes. The increased marketing purchases more than offset similar changes in marketing revenues. $9 million higher operating and general and administrative costs. Partially offsetting the increased costs are decreases due to: $45 million of reduced product costs resulting from the lower sales volumes described above. $6 million favorable customer settlement in 2010. Segment profit increased primarily due to $139 million higher NGL and olefins production margins resulting from significantly higher average per unit margins on lower volumes. Other Other includes business activities that are not operating segments as well as corporate operations. Year Over Year Operating Results Year ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Millions) Segment revenues $ 25 $ 24 $ 27 Segment profit (loss) $ 24 $ 68 $ (41 ) 64 2011 vs. 2010 The unfavorable change in segment profit is primarily due to $32 million of decreased gains recognized in 2011 related to the 2010 sale of our interest in Accroven SRL. (See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) We are pursuing collection of these past due amounts from Petr&oacute;leos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA), as well as claims related to the 2009 expropriation of certain of our Venezuelan operations, which are reported as discontinued operations. 2010 vs. 2009 The favorable change in segment profit is primarily due to the net impact of recognizing $43 million in gains on the Accroven investment in 2010 while recording a $75 million impairment charge on that investment in 2009. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Liquidity Overview In 2011, we continued to focus upon growth through disciplined investments in our businesses. Examples of this growth included: Continued investment in Williams Partners gathering and processing capacity and infrastructure in the Marcellus Shale area, western United States, and deepwater Gulf of Mexico. Included is a project to design, construct and install a floating production system (Gulfstar FPS) in the eastern deepwater Gulf of Mexico; Expansion of Williams Partners interstate natural gas pipeline system to meet the demand of growth markets; Expansion of Midstream Canada & Olefins facilities to increase production of an ethane/ethylene mix. These investments were funded through cash flow from operations, debt offerings at WPZ and cash on hand. Our former exploration and production business, WPX, continued to invest in development drilling programs during 2011 that were largely self funded through cash flow from operations. In November 2011, WPX completed the issuance of $1.5 billion of senior unsecured notes. WPX distributed $981 million of the net proceeds to us and retained approximately $500 million to fund future investments. Primarily utilizing the distribution we received related to the WPX debt issuance, we retired $746 million of debt in December 2011. We completed the tax free spin off of 100 percent of WPX to our shareholders on December 31, 2011. During 2011, the economy has shown mixed signs of recovery; however, financial markets continue to be volatile as fears of global recession persist. In consideration of our liquidity in this environment, we note that, as of December 31, 2011, we have $889 million of cash and cash equivalents and $2.9 billion of available credit capacity under our credit facilities. Our $900 million and WPZs $2 billion credit facilities do not expire until June 2016. (See additional discussion in the following Available Liquidity section.) Outlook Our plan for 2012 includes continued strong operating cash flows from our businesses. Lower than expected energy commodity prices would be somewhat mitigated by certain of our cash flow streams that are substantially insulated from short term changes in commodity prices as follows: Firm demand and capacity reservation transportation revenues under long term contracts from our gas pipelines; Fee based revenues from certain gathering and processing services in our midstream businesses. We believe we have, or have access to, the financial resources and liquidity necessary to meet our requirements for capital and investment expenditures, dividends and distributions, working capital, and tax and 65 debt payments while maintaining a sufficient level of liquidity. In particular, we note the following assumptions for 2012: We expect capital and investment expenditures to total between $3.4 billion and $3.8 billion in 2012. Of this total, maintenance capital expenditures, which are generally considered nondiscretionary and include expenditures to meet legal and regulatory requirements, to maintain and or extend the operating capacity and useful lives of our assets, and to complete certain well connections, are expected to total between $520 million and $600 million. Expansion capital expenditures, which are generally more discretionary to fund projects in order to grow our business are expected to total between $2.88 billion and $3.2 billion. See Results of Operations Segments, Williams Partners and Midstream Canada & Olefins for discussions describing the general nature of these expenditures; We expect to pay total cash dividends of approximately $1.09 per common share, an increase of 41 percent over 2011 levels. We expect to increase our dividend quarterly through paying out substantially all of the cash distributions, net of applicable taxes, interest and costs, we receive from WPZ; We expect to fund capital and investment expenditures, debt payments, dividends, and working capital requirements primarily through cash flow from operations, cash and cash equivalents on hand, utilization of our revolving credit facilities, and proceeds from debt issuances and sales of equity securities as needed. Based on a range of market assumptions, we currently estimate our cash flow from operations will be between $1.85 billion and $2.325 billion in 2012; We expect to maintain consolidated liquidity (which includes liquidity at WPZ) of at least $1 billion from cash and cash equivalents and unused revolving credit facilities; We expect WPZ to fund its $325 million of current debt maturities with a new debt issuance; In January 2012, WPZ completed an equity issuance of 7 million common units representing limited partner interests in it at a price of $62.81 per unit. In February 2012, the underwriters exercised their option to purchase an additional 1.05 million common units for $62.81 per unit, with expected settlement on February 28, 2012; On February 17, 2012, Williams Partners completed the acquisition of 100 percent of the ownership interests in certain entities from Delphi Midstream Partners, LLC in exchange for $325 million in cash, net of cash acquired in the transaction and subject to certain closing adjustments, and approximately 7.5 million WPZ common units. Potential risks associated with our planned levels of liquidity and the planned capital and investment expenditures discussed above include: Sustained reductions in energy commodity prices from the range of current expectations; Lower than expected distributions, including incentive distribution rights, from WPZ. WPZs liquidity could also be impacted by a lack of adequate access to capital markets to fund its growth; Lower than expected levels of cash flow from operations from Midstream Canada & Olefins. Liquidity Based on our forecasted levels of cash flow from operations and other sources of liquidity, we expect to have sufficient liquidity to manage our businesses in 2012. Our internal and external sources of consolidated liquidity include cash generated from our operations, cash and cash equivalents on hand, and our credit facilities. Additional sources of liquidity, if needed, include bank financings, proceeds from the issuance of long term debt and equity securities, and proceeds from asset sales. These sources are available to us at the parent level and are expected to be available to certain of our subsidiaries, particularly equity and debt issuances from WPZ. WPZ is expected to be self funding through its cash flows from operations, use of its credit facility, and its access to capital markets. WPZ makes cash distributions to us in accordance with the partnership agreement, which considers our level of ownership and incentive distribution rights. Our ability to raise funds in the capital markets will be impacted by our financial condition, interest rates, market conditions, and industry conditions. 66 December 31, 2011 Expiration WPZ WMB Total (Millions) Available Liquidity Cash and cash equivalents $ 163 $ 726 (1) $ 889 Available capacity under our $900 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility (2) June 3, 2016 900 900 Capacity available to WPZ under its $2 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility (3) June 3, 2016 2,000 2,000 $ 2,163 $ 1,626 $ 3,789 (1) Includes $467 million of cash and cash equivalents that is being held by certain subsidiary and international operations and is not considered available for general corporate purposes. The remainder of our cash and cash equivalents is primarily held in government backed instruments. (2) In June 2011, we replaced our existing $900 million unsecured revolving credit facility agreement that was scheduled to expire in May 2012 with a new $900 million five year senior unsecured revolving credit facility agreement. At December 31, 2011, we are in compliance with the financial covenants associated with this new credit facility agreement (see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). (3) In June 2011, WPZ replaced its existing $1.75 billion unsecured revolving credit facility agreement that was scheduled to expire in February 2013 with a new $2 billion five year senior unsecured revolving credit facility agreement. At December 31, 2011, WPZ is in compliance with the financial covenants associated with this new credit facility agreement. This credit facility is only available to WPZ, Transco and Northwest Pipeline as co borrowers (see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). In addition to the credit facilities listed above, we have issued letters of credit totaling $21 million as of December 31, 2011, under certain bilateral bank agreements. WPZ filed a shelf registration statement as a well known, seasoned issuer in February 2012 that allows it to issue an unlimited amount of registered debt and limited partnership unit securities. At the parent company level, we filed a shelf registration statement as a well known, seasoned issuer in May 2009 that allows us to issue an unlimited amount of registered debt and equity securities. As described in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we have determined that we have net assets that are technically considered restricted in accordance with Rule 4 08(e) of Regulation S X of the Securities and Exchange Commission in excess of 25 percent of our consolidated net assets. We do not expect this determination will impact our ability to pay dividends or meet future obligations as the terms of WPZs partnership agreement require it to make quarterly distributions of all available cash, as defined, to its unitholders. Credit Ratings Our ability to borrow money is impacted by our credit ratings and the credit ratings of WPZ. The current ratings are as follows: WMB WPZ Standard and Poors (1) Corporate Credit Rating BBB BBB Senior Unsecured Debt Rating BB+ BBB Outlook Positive Positive Moodys Investors Service (2) Senior Unsecured Debt Rating Baa3 Baa2 Outlook Stable Stable Fitch Ratings (3) Senior Unsecured Debt Rating BBB BBB Outlook Stable Positive 67 (1) A rating of BBB or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below BBB indicates that the security has significant speculative characteristics. A BB rating indicates that Standard & Poors believes the issuer has the capacity to meet its financial commitment on the obligation, but adverse business conditions could lead to insufficient ability to meet financial commitments. Standard & Poors may modify its ratings with a + or a sign to show the obligors relative standing within a major rating category. (2) A rating of Baa or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below Baa is considered to have speculative elements. The 1, 2, and 3 modifiers show the relative standing within a major category. A 1 indicates that an obligation ranks in the higher end of the broad rating category, 2 indicates a mid range ranking, and 3 indicates the lower end of the category. On February 27, 2012, Moodys Investors Service revised WMBs rating outlook to stable from negative. On February 27, 2012, Moodys Investors Service upgraded WPZs senior unsecured debt rating to Baa2 from Baa3. The rating outlook was also revised to stable from under review for possible upgrade. (3) A rating of BBB or above indicates an investment grade rating. A rating below BBB is considered speculative grade. Fitch may add a + or a sign to show the obligors relative standing within a major rating category. On February 9, 2012, Fitch Ratings revised WMBs outlook to stable from rating watch negative. WPZs outlook was also revised to positive from stable. Credit rating agencies perform independent analyses when assigning credit ratings. No assurance can be given that the credit rating agencies will continue to assign us investment grade ratings even if we meet or exceed their current criteria for investment grade ratios. A downgrade of our credit rating might increase our future cost of borrowing and would require us to post additional collateral with third parties, negatively impacting our available liquidity. As of December 31, 2011, we estimate that a downgrade to a rating below investment grade for us or WPZ could require us to post up to $165 million or $134 million, respectively, in additional collateral with third parties. Sources (Uses) of Cash Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (Millions) Net cash provided (used) by: Operating activities $ 3,439 $ 2,651 $ 2,572 Financing activities (342 ) 573 166 Investing activities (3,003 ) (4,296 ) (2,310 ) Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 94 $ (1,072 ) $ 428 Operating activities Our net cash provided by operating activities in 2011 increased from 2010 primarily due to higher operating income from our continuing businesses. Our net cash provided by operating activities in 2010 increased slightly from 2009 primarily due to the improvement in the energy commodity price environment during the year. Financing activities Significant transactions include: 2011 $526 million of cash retained by WPX upon spin off on December 31, 2011; $746 million of notes and debentures retired in December 2011 and $254 million paid in associated premiums; 68 $1.5 billion received from WPXs issuance of senior unsecured notes in November 2011; $500 million received from WPZs public offering of senior unsecured notes in November 2011 primarily used to repay borrowings on its credit facility mentioned below; $375 million received by Transco from the issuance of senior unsecured notes in August 2011; $300 million paid to retire Transcos senior unsecured notes that matured in August 2011; $300 million received in revolver borrowings from WPZs $1.75 billion unsecured credit facility used for WPZs acquisition of a 24.5 percent interest in Gulfstream from us in May 2011. This obligation was transferred to WPZs new $2 billion unsecured credit facility at its inception in June 2011; $150 million paid to retire WPZs senior unsecured notes that matured in June 2011; We paid $457 million of quarterly dividends on common stock for the year ended December 31, 2011; $425 million in net borrowings and payments related to WPZs revolving credit facility in 2011. 2010 $369 million received from WPZs December 2010 equity offering used primarily to reduce revolver borrowings mentioned below and to fund a portion of WPZs acquisition of a midstream business in Pennsylvanias Marcellus Shale in December 2010; $200 million received in revolver borrowings from WPZs $1.75 billion unsecured credit facility primarily used for WPZs general partnership purposes and to fund a portion of the cash consideration paid for WPZs acquisition of certain gathering and processing assets in Colorados Piceance basin in November 2010; $600 million received from WPZs public offering of 4.125 percent senior unsecured notes in November 2010 primarily used to fund a portion of the cash consideration paid to our former exploration and production business for WPZs acquisition of certain gathering and processing assets in Colorados Piceance basin; $430 million received in revolver borrowings from WPZs $1.75 billion unsecured credit facility primarily used to fund our increased ownership in OPPL, a transaction that closed in September 2010; $437 million received from a WPZ equity offering used to reduce WPZs revolver borrowings mentioned above; $3.491 billion received by WPZ in February 2010 from the issuance of $3.5 billion of senior unsecured notes related to our previously discussed restructuring; $3 billion of senior unsecured notes retired in February 2010 and $574 million paid in associated premiums utilizing proceeds from the $3.5 billion debt issuance; $250 million received from revolver borrowings on WPZs $1.75 billion unsecured credit facility in February 2010 to repay a term loan; We paid $284 million of quarterly dividends on common stock for the year ended December 31, 2010. 2009 We received $595 million net cash from the issuance of $600 million aggregate principal amount of 8.75 percent senior unsecured notes due 2020 to fund general corporate expenses and capital expenditures; We paid $256 million of quarterly dividends on common stock for the year ended December 31, 2009. 69 Investing activities Significant transactions include: 2011 Capital expenditures totaled $2.8 billion in 2011; We contributed $137 million to our Laurel Mountain equity investment. 2010 Capital expenditures totaled $2.8 billion in 2010. Included is approximately $599 million, including closing adjustments, related to our former exploration and production business acquisition in the Marcellus Shale in July 2010; We paid approximately $949 million, including closing adjustments, for our former exploration and production business December 2010 business purchase, consisting primarily of oil and gas properties in the Bakken Shale; We contributed $488 million to our investments, including a $424 million cash payment for WPZs September 2010 acquisition of an increased interest in OPPL; We paid $150 million for WPZs December 2010 business purchase, consisting primarily of certain midstream assets in the Marcellus Shale. 2009 Capital expenditures totaled $2.4 billion, more than half of which related to our former exploration and production businesses. Included was a $253 million payment by our former exploration and production business for the purchase of additional properties in the Piceance basin; We received $148 million as a distribution from Gulfstream following its debt offering; We contributed $142 million to our investments, including $106 million related to our Laurel Mountain equity investment and $20 million related to our Gulfstream equity investment. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Guarantees of Debt or Other Commitments We have various other guarantees and commitments which are disclosed in Notes 9, 11, 15 and 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We do not believe these guarantees or the possible fulfillment of them will prevent us from meeting our liquidity needs. Contractual Obligations The table below summarizes the maturity dates of our contractual obligations at December 31, 2011: 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter Total (Millions) Long term debt, including current portion: Principal $ 352 $ $ 1,125 $ 7,272 $ 8,749 Interest 530 1,000 934 4,434 6,898 Capital leases 2 2 4 Operating leases (1) 44 69 55 148 316 Purchase obligations (2) 1,626 648 418 1,320 4,012 Other long term liabilities (3) (4) 1 1 2 Total $ 2,554 $ 1,720 $ 2,533 $ 13,174 $ 19,981 70 (1) Includes a right of way agreement with the Jicarilla Apache Nation, which is considered an operating lease. We are required to make a fixed annual payment of $7.5 million and an additional annual payment, which varies depending on per unit NGL margins and the volume of gas gathered by our gathering facilities subject to the right of way agreement. The table above for years 2013 and thereafter does not include such variable amounts related to this agreement as the variable amount is not yet determinable. (2) Includes an estimated $2.2 billion long term ethane purchase obligation with index based pricing terms that is reflected in this table at December 31, 2011 prices. This obligation is part of an overall exchange agreement whereby volumes we transport on OPPL are sold at a third party fractionator in Conway, Kansas, and we are subsequently obligated to purchase ethane volumes at Mont Belvieu. The purchased ethane volumes may be utilized or resold at comparable prices in the Mont Belvieu market. (3) Does not include estimated contributions to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans. We made contributions to our pension and other postretirement benefit plans of $83 million in 2011 and $76 million in 2010. In 2012, we expect to contribute approximately $94 million to these plans (see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Tax qualified pension plans are required to meet minimum contribution requirements. In the past, we have contributed amounts to our tax qualified pension plans in excess of the minimum required contribution. These excess amounts can be used to offset future minimum contribution requirements. During 2011, we contributed $60 million to our tax qualified pension plans. In addition to these contributions, a portion of the excess contributions was used to meet the minimum contribution requirements. During 2012, we expect to contribute approximately $70 million to our tax qualified pension plans and use excess amounts to satisfy minimum contribution requirements. Additionally, estimated future minimum funding requirements may vary significantly from historical requirements if actual results differ significantly from estimated results for assumptions such as returns on plan assets, interest rates, retirement rates, mortality, and other significant assumptions or by changes to current legislation and regulations. (4) We have not included income tax liabilities in the table above. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of income taxes, including our contingent tax liability reserves. Effects of Inflation Our operations have historically not been materially affected by inflation. Approximately 58 percent of our gross property, plant, and equipment is comprised of our interstate gas pipelines. These assets are subject to regulation, which limits recovery to historical cost. While amounts in excess of historical cost are not recoverable under current FERC practices, we anticipate being allowed to recover and earn a return based on increased actual cost incurred to replace existing assets. Cost based regulation, along with competition and other market factors, may limit our ability to recover such increased costs. For the remainder of our business, operating costs are influenced to a greater extent by both competition for specialized services and specific price changes in crude oil and natural gas and related commodities than by changes in general inflation. Crude oil, natural gas, and NGL prices are particularly sensitive to the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) production levels and or the market perceptions concerning the supply and demand balance in the near future, as well as general economic conditions. However, our exposure to certain of these price changes is reduced through the use of hedging instruments and the fee based nature of certain of our services. Environmental We are a participant in certain environmental activities in various stages including assessment studies, cleanup operations and or remedial processes at certain sites, some of which we currently do not own (see Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). We are monitoring these sites in a coordinated effort with other potentially responsible parties, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or other governmental authorities. We are jointly and severally liable along with unrelated third parties in some of these activities and solely responsible in others. Current estimates of the most likely costs of such activities are approximately $47 million, all of which are included in accrued liabilities and regulatory liabilities, deferred income and other on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2011. We will seek recovery of approximately $10 million of these accrued costs through future natural gas transmission rates. The remainder of these costs will be funded 71 from operations. During 2011, we paid approximately $8 million for cleanup and or remediation and monitoring activities. We expect to pay approximately $10 million in 2012 for these activities. Estimates of the most likely costs of cleanup are generally based on completed assessment studies, preliminary results of studies or our experience with other similar cleanup operations. At December 31, 2011, certain assessment studies were still in process for which the ultimate outcome may yield significantly different estimates of most likely costs. Therefore, the actual costs incurred will depend on the final amount, type, and extent of contamination discovered at these sites, the final cleanup standards mandated by the EPA or other governmental authorities, and other factors. We are also subject to the Federal Clean Air Act (Act) and to the Federal Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (1990 Amendments), which added significantly to the existing requirements established by the Act. Pursuant to requirements of the 1990 Amendments and EPA rules designed to mitigate the migration of ground level ozone, we have installed air pollution controls on existing sources at certain facilities in order to reduce ozone emissions. In March 2008, the EPA promulgated a new, lower National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) for ground level ozone. Within two years, the EPA was expected to designate new eight hour ozone nonattainment areas. However, in September 2009, the EPA announced it would reconsider the 2008 NAAQS for ground level ozone to ensure that the standards were clearly grounded in science and were protective of both public health and the environment. As a result, the EPA delayed designation of new eight hour ozone nonattainment areas under the 2008 standards until the reconsideration is complete. In January 2010, the EPA proposed to further reduce the ground level ozone NAAQS from the March 2008 levels. In September 2011, the EPA announced it would not move forward with the proposed 2010 ozone NAAQS. Instead, the EPA will implement the 2008 ozone NAAQS that was stayed during the reconsideration process. The EPA is expected to designate ozone nonattainment areas under the 2008 NAAQS in second quarter 2012 and we are unable at this time to estimate the cost of additions that may be required to meet this new regulation. However, designation of new eight hour ozone nonattainment areas are expected to result in additional federal and state regulatory actions that will likely impact our operations and increase the cost of additions to property, plant and equipment net on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Additionally, in August 2010, the EPA promulgated National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) regulations that will impact our operations. The emission control additions required to comply with the NESHAP regulations are estimated to include capital costs in the range of $24 million to $32 million through 2013, the compliance date. In June 2010, the EPA promulgated a final rule establishing a new one hour sulfur dioxide (SO2) NAAQS. The effective date of the new SO2 standard was August 23, 2010. This new standard is subject to challenge in federal court. EPA has not adopted final modeling guidance. We are unable at this time to estimate the cost of additions that may be required to meet this new regulation. In February 2010, the EPA promulgated a final rule establishing a new one hour nitrogen dioxide (NO2) NAAQS. The effective date of the new NO2 standard was April 12, 2010. This new standard is subject to numerous challenges in the federal court. We are unable at this time to estimate the cost of additions that may be required to meet this new regulation. Our interstate natural gas pipelines consider prudently incurred environmental assessment and remediation costs and the costs associated with compliance with environmental standards to be recoverable through rates. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk Our current interest rate risk exposure is related primarily to our debt portfolio. Our debt portfolio is comprised of fixed rate debt, which mitigates the impact of fluctuations in interest rates. Any borrowings under 72 our credit facilities could be at a variable interest rate and could expose us to the risk of increasing interest rates. The maturity of our long term debt portfolio is partially influenced by the expected lives of our operating assets. (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) The tables below provide information by maturity date about our interest rate risk sensitive instruments as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. Long term debt in the tables represents principal cash flows, net of (discount) premium, and weighted average interest rates by expected maturity dates. The fair value of our publicly traded long term debt is valued using indicative year end traded bond market prices. Private debt is valued based on market rates and the prices of similar securities with similar terms and credit ratings. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Thereafter(1) Total Fair ValueDecember 31,2011 (Millions) Long term debt, including current portion (2): Fixed rate $ 352 $ $ $ 750 $ 375 $ 7,241 $ 8,718 $ 10,043 Interest rate 6.0% 6.0% 6.0% 6.1% 6.2% 6.5% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Thereafter(1) Total Fair ValueDecember 31,2010 (Millions) Long term debt, including current portion (2): Fixed rate $ 507 $ 352 $ $ $ 750 $ 7,495 $ 9,104 $ 9,990 Interest rate 6.4% 6.4% 6.3% 6.3% 6.4% 6.9% (1) Includes unamortized discount and premium. (2) Excludes capital leases. Commodity Price Risk We are exposed to the impact of fluctuations in the market price of natural gas and NGLs, as well as other market factors, such as market volatility and energy commodity price correlations. We are exposed to these risks in connection with our owned energy related assets, our long term energy related contracts, and limited proprietary trading activities. Our management of the risks associated with these market fluctuations includes maintaining a conservative capital structure and significant liquidity, as well as using various derivatives and nonderivative energy related contracts. The fair value of derivative contracts is subject to many factors, including changes in energy commodity market prices, the liquidity and volatility of the markets in which the contracts are transacted, and changes in interest rates. (See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) We measure the risk in our portfolio using a value at risk methodology to estimate the potential one day loss from adverse changes in the fair value of the portfolio. Value at risk requires a number of key assumptions and is not necessarily representative of actual losses in fair value that could be incurred from the portfolio. Our value at risk model uses a Monte Carlo method to simulate hypothetical movements in future market prices and assumes that, as a result of changes in commodity prices, there is a 95 percent probability that the one day loss in fair value of the portfolio will not exceed the value at risk. The simulation method uses historical correlations and market forward prices and volatilities. In applying the value at risk methodology, we do not consider that the simulated hypothetical movements affect the positions or would cause any potential liquidity issues, nor do we consider that changing the portfolio in response to market conditions could affect market prices and could take longer than a one day holding period to execute. While a one day holding period has historically been the industry standard, a longer holding period could more accurately represent the true market risk given market liquidity and our own credit and liquidity constraints. 73 We segregate our derivative contracts into trading and nontrading contracts, as defined in the following paragraphs. We calculate value at risk separately for these two categories. Contracts designated as normal purchases or sales and nonderivative energy contracts have been excluded from our estimation of value at risk. Trading Our limited trading portfolio consists of derivative contracts entered into for purposes other than economically hedging our commodity price risk exposure. The fair value of our trading derivatives was a net asset of less than $0.1 million at December 31, 2011. The value at risk for contracts held for trading purposes was less than $0.1 million at December 31, 2011 and zero at December 31, 2010. Nontrading Our nontrading portfolio consists of derivative contracts that hedge or could potentially hedge the price risk exposure from the following activities: Segment Commodity Price Risk Exposure Williams Partners Natural gas purchases NGL sales Midstream Canada & Olefins NGL purchases and sales The fair value of our nontrading derivatives was a net asset of $1 million at December 31, 2011. The value at risk for derivative contracts held for nontrading purposes was zero at December 31, 2011, and 2010. During the year ended December 31, 2011, our value at risk for these contracts ranged from a high of $1 million to a low of zero. Certain of the derivative contracts held for nontrading purposes in 2011 were accounted for as cash flow hedges but realized during the year. Of the total fair value on nontrading derivatives, cash flow hedges had a net asset value of zero as of December 31, 2011. Though these contracts would be included in our value at risk calculation, any changes in the fair value of the effective portion of these hedge contracts would generally not be reflected in earnings until the associated hedged item affects earnings. Trading Policy We have policies and procedures that govern our trading and risk management activities. These policies cover authority and delegation thereof in addition to control requirements, authorized commodities, and term and exposure limitations. Foreign Currency Risk Net assets of our consolidated foreign operations, whose functional currency is the local currency, are located primarily in Canada were approximately $690 million and $580 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. These foreign operations do not have significant transactions or financial instruments denominated in currencies other than their functional currency. However, these investments do have the potential to impact our financial position, due to fluctuations in these local currencies arising from the process of translating the local functional currency into the U.S. dollar. As an example, a 20 percent change in the respective functional currencies against the U.S. dollar would have changed stockholders equity by approximately $138 million at December 31, 2011. 74 
 
