FILE:USB/USB-8K-20041021133119.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On October 19, 2004, U.S. Bancorp promoted Richard K. Davis to the offices of President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Davis had been serving as U.S. Bancorp's Vice Chairman, Commercial and Consumer Banking, and will continue to report to Jerry A. Grundhofer, U.S. Bancorp's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Grundhofer had also been serving as the company's President. Biographical information about Mr. Davis is contained in U.S. Bancorp's 2003 Annual Report and Form 10-K, which is on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission and can be found on U.S. Bancorp's website at usbank.com.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits The following exhibit is being filed herewith: 99.1 Press release issued by U.S. Bancorp on October 19, 2004
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

U.S. Bancorp
News Release
CONTACT: Steve Dale (Media) (612) 303-0784 H. D. McCullough (Analysts) (612) 303-0786
(October 19, 2004)  U.S. Bancorp (NYSE: USB) today announced the appointment of Richard K. Davis as president and chief operating officer, effective immediately. In his new position, Davis will continue to manage consumer and commercial banking and will assume the additional responsibilities of corporate banking, private client, trust, asset management and NOVA Information Systems. Davis will continue to report to Jerry A. Grundhofer, U.S. Bancorp's chairman and chief executive officer.
MINNEAPOLIS
Grundhofer noted, "The promotion of Richard to president and chief operating officer is an additional step in the evolution and development of the U.S. Bancorp organization as we continue to increase our focus on organic revenue growth. There are significant opportunities to further penetrate our 24-state footprint and our diverse customer base with our broad array of industry-leading products and services and Richard's leadership skills and business insight make him the perfect choice for directing these activities. Richard's significant contributions in helping transform U.S. Bancorp into one of the nation's largest and most valuable financial services companies have earned him the respect and confidence of customers, communities, employees, shareholders, the investment community and industry observers."
Davis, 46, has more than twenty-five years of experience in the industry with a diverse background that includes operating experience in retail banking, payment services and commercial banking. Most recently, Davis served as vice chairman of consumer and commercial banking at U.S. Bank and he has served on U.S. Bancorp's Managing Committee since 1993. Under Davis' direction U.S. Bank has broadened its reputation as one of the nation's top performing consumer banks.
U.S. Bancorp has $193 billion in assets and is the 6 largest financial services holding company in the United States. It operates 2,346 banking offices and 4,621 ATM's in 24 states. It provides comprehensive banking, brokerage, insurance, investment, mortgage, trust, and payment services products to businesses, consumers, and institutions. U.S. Bancorp provides the Five Star Service Guarantee consistent with which customers are paid if certain key banking service levels are not met. U.S. Bancorp is the parent of U.S. Bank. Visit U.S. Bancorp on the web at .
th
www.usbank.com


