FILE:USB/USB-8K-20050627153032.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 8.01 OTHER EVENTS.
     On June 27, 2005, U.S. Bancorp (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the results of its previously announced tender offers for certain outstanding debt securities of the Company and its affiliates. A copy of the press release is filed with this Current Report as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
     (c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
     Date: June 27, 2005

 
(June 27, 2005)  U.S. Bancorp (NYSE: USB) announced today the results of its previously announced tender offer for five different series of debt securities originally issued by certain affiliates of and predecessors to the Company. The tender offer commenced on June 15, 2005, and expired at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on Friday, June 24, 2005. At settlement (scheduled for later today), the Company will pay approximately $718.8 million in total (including accrued and unpaid interest) for all securities validly tendered and accepted for payment.
MINNEAPOLIS
The table at the end of this release specifies the aggregate principal amount tendered and accepted.
Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc. and Credit Suisse First Boston LLC served as the Dealer Managers for the tender offer. U.S. Bank National Association served as the Depositary and MacKenzie Partners, Inc. served as the Information Agent.
Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp, with $198 billion in assets, is the 6th largest financial holding company in the United States. The company operates 2,377 banking offices and 4,654 ATMs, and provides a comprehensive line of banking, brokerage, insurance, investment, mortgage, trust and payment services products to consumers, businesses and institutions. U.S. Bancorp is the parent company of U.S. Bank. Visit U.S. Bancorp on the web at usbank.com.
 
Subordinated Notes
Capital Securities
 


