FILE:USB/USB-8K-20061219170148.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) .
Exhibits
     The following Exhibits are incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-132297) of U.S. Bancorp as exhibits thereto and are filed as part of this Current Report.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 19, 2006
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 4.1
 
This Cross Reference Sheet shows the location in the Indenture of the provisions inserted pursuant to Sections 310-318(a), inclusive, of the TIA.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     INDENTURE, dated as of the 20th day of September, 2006, among U.S. BANCORP, a Delaware corporation (the ""), Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee (the "") and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, as Authenticating Agent, Calculation Agent, Conversion Agent, Paying Agent and Registrar ("").
Company
Trustee
U.S. Bank Trust
     WHEREAS, for its lawful corporate purposes, the Company deems it necessary to issue its securities and has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance of its Floating Rate Convertible Senior Debentures due 2036 (the "").
Securities
     NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
     For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders (as defined herein), it is mutually covenanted and agreed by the Company and by the Trustee, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities, as follows:
     Section 1.1 .
Certain Terms Defined
     (a) Definitions.
     "" when used with respect to any Security, means the Original Principal Amount of such Security (as may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges, redemptions, purchases or conversions of such Security) increased daily, beginning on September 21, 2031, by the applicable Variable Yield. The Accreted Principal Amount will accrete daily, beginning on September 21, 2031, at the applicable Variable Yield applied to the Accreted Principal Amount of the Security as of the day immediately preceding the most recent LIBOR Reset Date. The accretion shall be calculated using the actual number of days elapsed from and including the LIBOR Reset Date to but excluding the next LIBOR Reset Date divided by 360.
Accreted Principal Amount
     "" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "" and "" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
control
controlling
controlled
     "" means an office or agency authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate such Securities.
Authenticating Agent
     "" means Title 11, United States Code, or any similar Federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
 
     "" means either the board of directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of such board.
Board of Directors
     "" shall mean a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
Board Resolution
     "" means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York or Wilmington, Delaware are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close, provided, solely with respect to the LIBOR Determination Date, such day is also a London banking day.
Business Day
     "" for the purposes of this Indenture and the Securities, shall initially mean the Paying Agent.
Calculation Agent
     "" for any corporation means any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) stock issued by that corporation.
Capital Stock
     "" of Common Stock on any date means the closing sale price per share (or if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on such date as reported in composite transactions for the principal United States securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded or, if the Common Stock is not listed on a United States national or regional securities exchange, as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System.
Closing Sale Price
     "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor thereto.
Commission
     "" shall mean the shares of Common Stock, $0.01 par value, of the Company as it exists on the date of this Indenture or any other shares of Capital Stock of the Company into which the Common Stock shall be reclassified or changed.
Common Stock
     "" means the party named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture and, thereafter, shall mean such successor. The foregoing sentence shall likewise apply to any such subsequent successor or successors.
Company
     "" means an office or agency where Securities may be presented for conversion.
Conversion Agent
     "" or "" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by any two Officers and delivered to the Trustee.
Company Request
Company Order
     "" means an initial rate of 26.1233, subject to adjustment as set forth in Section 11.7.
Conversion Rate
     "" means:
Conversion Reference Period
 
     (1) for Securities that are converted after the Company specifies a Redemption Date pursuant to Section 10.3, the ten consecutive Trading Days beginning on the third Trading Day following the Redemption Date (in the case of a partial redemption, this will apply only to those Securities that are subject to redemption); and
     (2) in all other instances, the ten consecutive Trading Days beginning on the third Trading Day following the Conversion Date.
     "" means the average of the Daily Conversion Values for each of the ten consecutive Trading Days of the applicable Conversion Reference Period.
Conversion Value
     "" means the principal office of the Trustee at which at any time its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office at the date hereof is located at 1100 North Market Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19890, Attention: Corporate Trust Services  U.S. Bancorp Floating Rate Convertible Senior Debentures due 2036, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor Trustee (or such other address as a successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company).
Corporate Trust Office
     "" on any date means the average of the daily Closing Sale Prices per share of Common Stock for the ten consecutive Trading Days immediately prior to such date.
Current Market Price
     "" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
Custodian
     "" means, with respect to any Trading Day, the product of (1) the applicable Conversion Rate and (2) the Closing Sale Price of Common Stock on such Trading Day.
Daily Conversion Value
     "" means, for each Trading Day of the applicable Conversion Reference Period, a number of shares determined by the following formula:
Daily Share Amount
     "" means any event which is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default.
Default
     "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
     "" or "" means Securities that are in the form of the Securities attached hereto as Annex A.
Global Security
Global Securities
     "" means a Person in whose name a Security is registered on the Registrar's books.
Holder
 
     "" means obligations (other than nonrecourse obligations) of the Company for borrowed money or evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments.
Indebtedness
     "" means this trust indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof, including the provisions of the TIA that are deemed to be a part hereof.
Indenture
     "" means Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
Initial Purchaser
     "" means the March 20, June 20, September 20 and December 20 of each year, beginning December 20, 2006 until September 20, 2031.
Interest Payment Date
     "" means each period for which interest is accrued, from and including the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly made available for payment (or September 20, 2006, if no interest has been paid or been duly made available for payment) to, but excluding, the next succeeding Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date or Purchase Date or Change in Control Purchase Date, as the case may be.
Interest Period
     "" of any Security means the date on which the Security was originally issued or deemed issued as set forth on the face of the Security.
Issue Date
     "" means a day that is not a Business Day.
Legal Holiday
     "" means the second London banking day preceding the related LIBOR Reset Date.
LIBOR Determination Date
     "" means the first day of each Interest Period prior to September 21, 2031, and, beginning on September 21, 2031, March 21, June 21, September 21 and December 21 of each year; provided that, if any LIBOR Reset Date would otherwise be a day that is not a Business Day, such LIBOR Reset Date shall be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day, except if such Business Day falls in the next succeeding calendar month, such LIBOR Reset Date will be the immediately preceding Business Day.
LIBOR Reset Date
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of September 20, 2006, between the Company and the Initial Purchaser; , , that "" shall be due and payable only at the times, in the amounts and to the Persons as provided in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Liquidated Damages
provided
however
Liquidated Damages
     "" means a day on which commercial banks are open for business, including dealings in United States dollars, in London.
London banking day
     "" means the display on Moneyline Telerate (or any successor service) on such page (or any other page as may replace such page on such service) for the purpose of displaying the London interbank rates of major banks for United States dollars.
Moneyline Telerate Page 3750
     "" means the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Executive Vice President, any Senior Vice President, any Vice President, the Treasurer, the Secretary, any Assistant Treasurer or any Assistant Secretary of the Company.
Officer
 
     "" means a written certificate containing the information specified in Section 1.2, signed in the name of the Company by any two Officers and delivered to the Trustee. An Officers' Certificate given pursuant to Section 9.4 shall be signed by the principal executive, financial or accounting officer of the Company but need not contain the information specified in Section 1.2.
Officers' Certificate
     "" means a written opinion from legal counsel containing the information specified in Section 1.2. The counsel may be an employee of, or counsel to, the Company.
Opinion of Counsel
     "" of a Security means the principal amount set forth on the face of the Security (as may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges, redemptions, purchases or conversions of such Security) .
Original Principal Amount
     "" means an office or agency where Securities may be presented for purchase or payment
Paying Agent
     "" or "" means any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
Persons
     "" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 2.6 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security.
Predecessor Security
     "" means the date specified for redemption of the Securities in accordance with the terms of the Securities and this Indenture.
Redemption Date
     "" means, when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, the price at which it is to be redeemed by or pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Price
     "" means an office or agency where Securities may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange.
Registrar
     "" means the principal office of the Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent, at which at any time its business shall be administered, which office at the date hereof is located at 100 Wall Street, New York, New York 10005, Attention: Patrick J. Crowley, U.S. Bank Trust National Association, or such other address as the Registrar, Paying Agent or Conversion Agent may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the principal office of any successor Registrar, Paying Agent or Conversion Agent.
Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent Office
     "" means each March 1, June 1, September 1 and December 1, as the case may be, immediately preceding the relevant Interest Payment Date.
Regular Record Date
 
     "," when used with respect to the Trustee, means any officer within the corporate trust department (or any successor group), including, without limitation, any vice president, any assistant vice president, any trust officer or any other officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by any of the above-designated officers and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and, in each case, who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
Responsible Officer
     "" means Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision), as it may be amended from time to time.
Rule 144
     "" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act (or any successor provision), as it may be amended from time to time.
Rule 144A
     "" or "" means any of the Company's Floating Rate Convertible Senior Debentures due 2036, as amended or supplemented from time to time, issued under this Indenture.
Securities
Security
     "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
     "" means the register maintained by the Registrar that evidences ownership of the Securities.
Security Register
     "" means, for the payment of any Defaulted Interest, the date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 2.13.
Special Record Date
     "," when used with respect to any Security, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which an amount equal to the Accreted Principal Amount of such Security is due and payable.
Stated Maturity
     "" means (i) a corporation, a majority of whose Capital Stock with voting power, under ordinary circumstances, to elect directors is, at the date of determination, directly or indirectly owned by the Company, by one or more Subsidiaries of the Company or by the Company and one or more Subsidiaries of the Company, (ii) a partnership in which the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company, one or more Subsidiaries of the Company or the Company and one or more Subsidiaries of the Company holds a majority interest in the equity capital or profits of such partnership, or (iii) any other Person (other than a corporation) in which the Company, one or more Subsidiaries of the Company or the Company and one or more Subsidiaries of the Company, directly or indirectly, at the date of determination, has (x) at least a majority ownership interest or (y) the power to elect or direct the election of a majority of the directors or other governing body of such Person.
Subsidiary
     "" means the amount of ordinary interest income on a Security that must be accrued as original issue discount for United States federal income tax purposes.
Tax Original Issue Discount
     "" means:
3-month LIBOR
 
     (a) the rate for three-month deposits in United States dollars commencing on the related LIBOR Reset Date, that appears on the Moneyline Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 A.M., London time, on the LIBOR Determination Date; or
     (b) if no rate appears on the particular LIBOR Determination Date on the Moneyline Telerate Page 3750, the rate calculated by the Calculation Agent as the arithmetic mean of at least two offered quotations obtained by the Calculation Agent after requesting the principal London offices of each of four major reference banks in the London interbank market to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered quotation for deposits in United States dollars for the period of three months, commencing on the related LIBOR Reset Date, to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time, on that LIBOR Determination Date and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in United Sates dollars in that market at that time; or
     (c) if fewer than two offered quotations referred to in clause (b) are provided as requested, the rate calculated by the Calculation Agent as the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the particular LIBOR Determination Date by three major banks in The City of New York selected by the Calculation Agent for loans in United States dollars to leading European banks for a period of three months and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in United States dollars in that market at that time; or
     (d) if the banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in clause (c), 3-month LIBOR in effect on the particular LIBOR Determination Date.
     "" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in effect on the date of this Indenture; , , that in the event the TIA is amended after such date, TIA means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the TIA as so amended.
TIA
provided
however
     "" means a day during which trading in securities generally occurs on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal other national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock is then listed or, if the Common Stock is not listed on a national or regional securities exchange, on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System or, if the Common Stock is not quoted on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System, on the principal other market on which the Common Stock is then traded.
Trading Day
     "" means the party named as the "" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture and, thereafter, shall mean such successor. The foregoing sentence shall likewise apply to any subsequent such successor or successors.
Trustee
Trustee
     "" from the Issue Date through and including September 20, 2031 will equal 0% per annum and beginning on September 21, 2031 will be reset quarterly on each LIBOR Reset Date to 3-month LIBOR minus 1.75% per annum; , , that the Variable Yield shall in no event be less than 0% per annum.
Variable Yield
provided
however
 
     (e) Other Definitions.
 
     Section 1.2 . Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel (which shall not be required in connection with the initial issuance) stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent, if any, have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or request as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or request, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.
Compliance Certificates and Opinions
     Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include:
     (1) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;
     (2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
     (3) a statement that, in the opinion of each individual signing such certificate, such individual has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such individual to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
     (4) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of each such individual, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
     Section 1.3 . In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee
     Any certificate or opinion of an Officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such Officer actually knows that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an Officer or Officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care (but without having made an investigation specifically for the purpose of rendering such opinion) should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
 
     Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
     Section 1.4 . (a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in Person or by an agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Section 5.1) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section 1.4.
Acts of Holders
Act
     (b) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient and in accordance with such reasonable rules as the Trustee may determine.
     (c) The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security Register.
     (d) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
     (e) The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, set a record date for purposes of determining the identity of Holders entitled to vote or consent to any action by vote or consent authorized or permitted under this Indenture. If a record date is fixed, those Persons who were Holders of Securities at such record date (or their duly designated proxies), and only those Persons, shall be entitled to take such action by vote or consent or to revoke any vote or consent previously given, whether or not such Persons continue to be Holders after such record date. No action approved by such vote or consent shall be taken more than six months after such record date.
     Section 1.5 . This Indenture is subject to, and will be governed by, the provisions of the TIA that are required to be a part of and govern indentures qualified under the TIA (regardless of whether or not this Indenture has been qualified thereunder). If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with a provision of the TIA that
Conflict with Trust Indenture Act of 1939
 
is required under the TIA to be part of and govern this Indenture, the TIA shall control. If any provision of this Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the TIA that may be so modified or excluded, such provision shall be deemed either to apply to this Indenture so modified or to be excluded, as the case may be.
     Section 1.6 . The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings and Table of Contents
     Section 1.7 . In case any provision in this Indenture or in any Security shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Separability Clause
     Section 1.8 . Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
Benefits of Indenture
     Section 1.9 Subject to the next two succeeding sentences, if any specified date (including a date for giving notice) on which action is to be taken under this Indenture is a Legal Holiday, the action shall be taken on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday. In any case where an Interest Payment Date (other than an Interest Payment Date coinciding with the Stated Maturity or earlier Redemption Date, Purchase Date or Change in Control Purchase Date) of a Security falls on a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date will be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day and no interest on such payment will accrue for the period from and after the Interest Payment Date to such next succeeding Business Day, provided that, if such Business Day falls in the next succeeding calendar month, the Interest Payment Date will be the Business Day immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date. If the Stated Maturity, Redemption Date, Purchase Date or Change in Control Purchase Date of a Security would fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the required payment of interest, if any, and principal will be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no interest on such payment will accrue for the period from and after the Stated Maturity, Redemption Date, Purchase Date or Change in Control Purchase Date to such next succeeding Business Day.
Legal Holidays.
     Section 2.1 The Securities designated "Floating Rate Convertible Senior Debentures due 2036" of the Company shall be substantially in the form set forth in Annex A hereto, which is incorporated into and shall be deemed a part of this Indenture, with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the Officers of the
Form and Dating.
 
Company executing the Securities, as evidenced by their execution of the Securities. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
     All of the Securities are initially being offered and sold to qualified institutional buyers as defined in Rule 144A (collectively, "" or individually a "") in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act and shall be issued initially in the form of one or more restricted Global Securities, which shall be deposited on behalf of the purchasers of the Securities represented thereby with the Registrar at its Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent Office, as custodian for the depositary, The Depository Trust Company (such depositary, or any successor thereto, being hereinafter referred to as the ""), and registered in the name of its nominee, Cede & Co., duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided.
QIBs
QIB
Depositary
     Each Global Security shall represent such of the outstanding Securities as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it shall represent the aggregate Original Principal Amount of outstanding Securities from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate Original Principal Amount of outstanding Securities represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges, redemptions, purchases or conversions of such Securities. Any endorsement of a Global Security to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the Original Principal Amount of outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Registrar in accordance with the standing instructions and procedures existing between the Depositary and the Registrar.
     Certificated Securities shall be issued only under the limited circumstances provided in Section 2.11(b) hereof.
     Section 2.2 . The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by any Officer. The signature of any of these Officers on the Securities may be manual or facsimile.
Execution and Authentication
     Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper Officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of authentication of such Securities.
     No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein duly executed by the Trustee by manual signature of an authorized Officer, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder.
     The Trustee shall authenticate and deliver Securities for original issue in an aggregate Original Principal Amount of $2,500,000,000 (up to $2,875,000,000 if the Initial Purchaser exercise in full its option to purchase additional securities pursuant to the Purchase Agreement dated September 14, 2006 between the Company and the Initial Purchaser (the "")) upon a Company Order without any further action by the Company. The
Purchase Agreement
 
Securities shall be issued only in registered form without coupons and only in denominations of $1,000 of Original Principal Amount and any integral multiple thereof. The aggregate Original Principal Amount of Securities outstanding at any time may not exceed the amount set forth in the first sentence of this paragraph, except as provided in Section 2.6.
     Section 2.3 The Company shall maintain an office or agency where Securities may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange (""), an office or agency where Securities may be presented for purchase or payment ("") and an office or agency where Securities may be presented for conversion (""). The Registrar shall keep a register of the Securities and of their transfer and exchange. The Company may have one or more co-registrars, one or more additional paying agents and one or more additional conversion agents. The term Paying Agent includes any additional paying agent and the term Conversion Agent includes any additional conversion agent.
Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent.
Registrar
Paying Agent
Conversion Agent
     The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Registrar, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or co-registrar other than U.S. Bank Trust. The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to the duties of such agent. The Company shall notify the Trustee of the name and address of any such agent. The Company or any Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them may act as Paying Agent, Registrar, Conversion Agent or co-registrar.
     The Company initially appoints U.S. Bank Trust, and U.S. Bank Trust agrees to its appointment, as Registrar, Conversion Agent and Paying Agent in connection with the Securities.
     Section 2.4 Except as otherwise provided herein, on or prior to each due date of payments in respect of any Security, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent a sum of money (in immediately available funds if deposited on the due date) sufficient to make such payments when so becoming due. The Company shall require each Paying Agent to agree in writing that the Paying Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of Holders and the Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the making of payments in respect of the Securities and shall notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment. At any time during the continuance of any such default, the Paying Agent shall, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all money so held in trust. If the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them acts as Paying Agent, it shall segregate the money held by it as Paying Agent and hold it as a separate trust fund. The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee and to account for any funds disbursed by it. Upon doing so, the Paying Agent shall have no further liability for the money.
Paying Agent to Hold Money and Securities in Trust.
     Section 2.5 (a) Subject to Section 2.11 hereof, upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security, together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by the Holder or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing, at the office or agency of the Company designated as Registrar or co-registrar pursuant to Section 2.3, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities
Transfer and Exchange.
 
of any authorized denomination or denominations, of a like aggregate Original Principal Amount. The Company shall not charge a service charge for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to pay all taxes, assessments or other governmental charges that may be imposed in connection with the transfer or exchange of the Securities from the Holder requesting such transfer or exchange.
     The Company shall not be required to make, and the Registrar need not register, transfers or exchanges of Securities selected for redemption (except, in the case of Securities to be redeemed in part, the portion thereof not to be redeemed) or any Securities in respect of which a Purchase Notice or Change in Control Purchase Notice has been given and not withdrawn by the Holder thereof in accordance with the terms of this Indenture (except, in the case of Securities to be purchased in part, the portion thereof not to be purchased) or any Securities for a period of 15 days before the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed.
     (b) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary herein, so long as a Global Security remains outstanding and is held by or on behalf of the Depositary, transfers of a Global Security, in whole or in part, shall be made only in accordance with Section 2.11 and this Section 2.5(b). Transfers of a Global Security shall be limited to transfers of such Global Security in whole, or in part, to nominees of the Depositary or to a successor of the Depositary or such successor's nominee.
     (c) Successive registrations and registrations of transfers and exchanges as aforesaid may be made from time to time as desired, and each such registration shall be noted on the register for the Securities.
     (d) Any Registrar appointed pursuant to Section 2.3 hereof shall provide to the Trustee such information as the Trustee may reasonably require in connection with the delivery by such Registrar of Securities upon transfer or exchange of Securities.
     (e) No Registrar shall be required to make registrations of transfer or exchange of Securities during any periods designated in the text of the Securities or in this Indenture as periods during which such registration of transfers and exchanges need not be made.
     (f) If Securities are issued upon the transfer, exchange or replacement of Securities subject to restrictions on transfer and bearing the legends on the form of Security attached hereto as Annex A setting forth such restrictions (collectively, the ""), or if a request is made to remove the Legend on a Security, the Securities so issued shall bear the Legend, or the Legend shall not be removed, as the case may be, unless there is delivered to the Company and the Registrar such satisfactory evidence, which shall include an Opinion of Counsel, as may be reasonably required by the Company and the Registrar, that neither the Legend nor the restrictions on transfer set forth therein are required to ensure that transfers thereof comply with the provisions of Rule 144A or Rule 144 under the Securities Act or that such Securities are not "restricted" within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Upon (i) provision of such satisfactory evidence or (ii) notification by the Company to the Trustee and Registrar of the sale of such Security pursuant to a registration statement that is effective at the time of such sale, the Trustee, at the written direction of the Company, shall authenticate and deliver a Security that
Legend
 
does not bear the Legend. If the Legend is removed from the face of a Security and the Security is subsequently held by an Affiliate of the Company, the Legend shall be reinstated.
     (g) Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities shall prohibit the sale or other transfer of any Securities (including beneficial interests in Global Securities) to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, which Securities shall thereupon be canceled in accordance with Section 2.9 of this Indenture.
     Section 2.6 If (a) any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, or (b) the Company and the Trustee receive evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security, and there is delivered to the Company and the Trustee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to hold each of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon its written request the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for any such mutilated Security or in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of like tenor and Original Principal Amount, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
Replacement Securities.
     In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, or is about to be purchased by the Company pursuant to Articles XII or XIII hereof, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay or purchase such Security, as the case may be.
     Upon the issuance of any new Securities under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
     Every new Security issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities duly issued hereunder.
     The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
     Section 2.7 Securities outstanding at any time are all the Securities authenticated by the Trustee except for those canceled by it, those delivered to it for cancellation, those delivered to it pursuant to Section 2.6 and those described in this Section 2.7 as not outstanding. A Security does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate thereof holds the Security; , , that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite Original Principal Amount of Securities have given or concurred in any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be
Outstanding Securities; Determinations of Holders' Action.
provided
however
 
outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Subject to the foregoing, only Securities outstanding at the time of such determination shall be considered in any such determination (including, without limitation, determinations made pursuant to Articles IV and VIII).
     If a Security is replaced pursuant to Section 2.6, it ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Security is held by a bona fide purchaser.
     If the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, on a Redemption Date, or on the Business Day following the Purchase Date or a Change in Control Purchase Date, or on Stated Maturity, money or securities, if permitted hereunder, sufficient to pay Securities payable on that date, then immediately after such Redemption Date, Purchase Date, Change in Control Purchase Date or Stated Maturity, as the case may be, such Securities shall cease to be outstanding and interest, if any, and principal on such Securities shall cease to accrue or accrete, as the case may be; provided that if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made.
     If a Security is converted in accordance with Article XI, then from and after the time of conversion on the Conversion Date, such Security shall cease to be outstanding and interest, if any, and principal shall cease to accrue or accrete, as the case may be, on such Security.
     Section 2.8 Pending the preparation of definitive Securities, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the Officers executing such Securities may determine, as conclusively evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
Temporary Securities.
     If temporary Securities are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities, the temporary Securities shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities upon surrender of the temporary Securities at the office or agency of the Company designated for such purpose pursuant to Section 2.3, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like Original Principal Amount of definitive Securities of authorized denominations. Until so exchanged, the temporary Securities shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities.
     Section 2.9 All Securities surrendered for payment, purchase by the Company pursuant to Articles XII and XIII, conversion, redemption or registration of transfer or exchange shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee, who shall promptly cancel them. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for
Cancellation.
 
cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly canceled by the Trustee. The Company may not issue new Securities to replace Securities it has paid or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation or that any Holder has converted pursuant to Article XI. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities canceled as provided in this Section 2.9, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All canceled Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed of by the Trustee in accordance with its customary practice.
     Section 2.10 Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of the Security or the payment of any Redemption Price, Purchase Price or Change in Control Purchase Price in respect thereof, and interest thereon, for the purpose of conversion and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Persons Deemed Owners.
     Section 2.11
Global Securities.
     (a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture or the Securities, transfers of a Global Security, in whole or in part, shall be made only in accordance with Section 2.5 and this Section 2.11. A Global Security may not be transferred, in whole or in part, to any Person other than the Depositary or a nominee or any successor thereof, and no such transfer to any other such Person may be registered; provided that this clause (a) shall not prohibit any transfer of a Security that is issued in exchange for a Global Security but is not itself a Global Security. No transfer of a Security to any Person shall be effective under this Indenture unless and until such Security has been registered in the name of such Person.
     (b) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture or the Securities, a Global Security shall not be exchanged in whole or in part for a Security registered in the name of any Person other than the Depositary or one or more nominees thereof, provided that a Global Security may be exchanged for Securities registered in the names of any Person designated by the Depositary in the event that (i) the Depositary has notified the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security or such Depositary has ceased to be a "clearing agency" registered under the Exchange Act, and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days, (ii) the Company decides to discontinue the use of the system of book-entry transfer through the Depositary (or any successor Depositary) or (iii) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Securities. Any Global Security exchanged pursuant to clause (i) above shall be so exchanged in whole and not in part, and any Global Security exchanged pursuant to clause (iii) above may be exchanged in whole or from time to time in part as directed by the Depositary. Any Security issued in exchange for a Global Security or any portion thereof shall be a Global Security; provided that any such Security so issued that is registered in the name of a Person other than the Depositary or a nominee thereof shall not be a Global Security.
 
     (c) Securities issued in exchange for a Global Security or any portion thereof (i) shall be issued in definitive, fully registered form, without interest coupons, (ii) shall have an aggregate Original Principal Amount equal to that of such Global Security or portion thereof for which such Securities are to be so exchanged, (iii) shall be registered in such names and be in such authorized denominations as the Depositary shall designate and (iv) shall bear the applicable Legends provided for herein. Any Global Security to be exchanged in whole shall be surrendered by the Depositary to the Registrar. With regard to any Global Security to be exchanged in part, either such Global Security shall be so surrendered for exchange or, if the Registrar is acting as custodian for the Depositary or its nominee with respect to such Global Security, the Original Principal Amount thereof shall be reduced, by an amount equal to the portion thereof to be so exchanged, by means of an appropriate adjustment made on the records of the Registrar. Upon any such surrender or adjustment, the Registrar shall authenticate and deliver the Security issuable on such exchange to or upon the order of the Depositary or an authorized representative thereof.
     (d) Subject to the provisions of Section 2.11(f) below, the registered Holder may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members (as defined below) and Persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action which a Holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Securities.
     (e) In the event of the occurrence of any of the events specified in Section 2.11(b) above, the Company will promptly make available to the Trustee a reasonable supply of certificated Securities in definitive, fully registered form, without interest coupons.
     (f) Neither any members of, or participants in, the Depositary (collectively, the "") nor any other Persons on whose behalf Agent Members may act shall have any rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Security registered in the name of the Depositary or any nominee thereof, or under any such Global Security, and the Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner and holder of such Global Security for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company or the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, or impair, as between the Depositary, its Agent Members and any other Person on whose behalf an Agent Member may act, the operation of customary practices of such Persons governing the exercise of the rights of a holder of any Security.
Agent Members
     Section 2.12
Legends.
     (a) Subject to the succeeding paragraph, every Security shall be subject to the restrictions on transfer provided in the Legend including the delivery of a certification or an Opinion of Counsel, if so requested by the Company or the Registrar.
     (b) The restrictions imposed by the Legend upon the transferability of any Security shall cease and terminate when such Security has been sold pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act or transferred in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto) or, if earlier, upon the expiration of the
 
holding period applicable to sales thereof under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision). Any Security as to which such restrictions on transfer shall have expired in accordance with their terms or shall have terminated may, upon a surrender of such Security for exchange to the Registrar in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.12 (accompanied, in the event that such restrictions on transfer have terminated by reason of a transfer in compliance with Rule 144 or any successor provision, by an opinion of counsel having substantial experience in practice under the Securities Act and otherwise reasonably acceptable to the Company, addressed to the Company and the Registrar and in form acceptable to the Company, to the effect that the transfer of such Security has been made in compliance with Rule 144 or such successor provision), be exchanged for a new Security of like tenor and aggregate Original Principal Amount, which Security shall not bear the restrictive Legend. The Company shall inform the Trustee of the effective date of any registration statement registering the Securities under the Securities Act. The Trustee and the Registrar shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the aforementioned opinion of counsel or registration statement.
     (c) As used in the preceding two paragraphs of this Section 2.12, the term "" encompasses any sale, pledge, transfer, hypothecation or other disposition of any Security.
transfer
     (d) . All Securities shall bear the following legend:
United States Tax Legend
     FOR PURPOSES OF SECTIONS 1272, 1273 AND 1275 OF THE UNITED STATES INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED, THIS SECURITY IS ISSUED WITH AN INDETERMINATE AMOUNT OF ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT FOR UNITED STATES FEDERAL INCOME TAX PURPOSES. THE ISSUE DATE IS SEPTEMBER 20, 2006, THE ISSUE PRICE IS $1,000 PER GLOBAL SECURITY, THE YIELD TO MATURITY IS INDETERMINATE, AND ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT EFFECTIVELY ACCRUES AT A RATE OF THREE-MONTH LIBOR MINUS 1.75% PER ANNUM.
     Section 2.13 . Interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose pursuant to Section 9.2; , , that each installment of interest on any Security may at the Company's option be paid by mailing a check for such interest, payable to or upon the written order of the Person entitled thereto pursuant to Section 15.3, to the address of such Person as it appears on the Security Register.
Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved
provided
however
     Any interest on any Security that is payable but is not punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (1) or (2) below:
Defaulted Interest
     (1) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Securities (or Predecessor Securities) are registered at the
 
close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit on or prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder of Securities at such Holder's address as it appears in the Security Register, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Securities (or Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following clause (2).
     (2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Securities in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
     On conversion of a Holder's Securities, such Holder shall not receive any cash payment of interest. The Company's delivery to a Holder of the cash and Common Stock, if any, into which such Holder's Securities are convertible, together with any cash payment for fractional shares, shall be deemed to satisfy: (i) the Company's obligation to pay the Accreted Principal Amount of the Security and (ii) the Company's obligation to pay accrued but unpaid interest, if any, attributable to the period from the most recent Interest Payment Date through the Conversion Date.
     Notwithstanding the above, if any Securities are converted after a Regular Record Date but prior to the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, Holders of such Securities at the close of business on such Regular Record Date shall receive the interest payable on such Securities on the corresponding Interest Payment Date notwithstanding the conversion. Such Securities, upon surrender for conversion, must be accompanied by funds equal to the amount of interest payable on the Accreted Principal Amount of the Securities so converted (unless the Company has specified a Redemption Date or a Change in Control Purchase Date that occurs after a Regular Record Date and on or prior to the Interest Payment Date to which it relates), in which case no such payment shall be required. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, if the Company specifies a Redemption Date that is in the month of September 2007, such payment also shall not
 
be required upon the surrender of the Securities for conversion after September 1, 2007 and prior to such Redemption Date.
     Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
     Section 2.14 The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the CUSIP numbers.
CUSIP Numbers.
     Section 3.1 When (i) the Company delivers to the Trustee or any Paying Agent all outstanding Securities (other than Securities replaced pursuant to Section 2.6 of the Indenture) for cancellation or (ii) all outstanding Securities have become due and payable, whether at Stated Maturity, any Redemption Date, any Purchase Date, a Change in Control Purchase Date, or upon conversion or otherwise, and the Company deposits with the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Conversion Agent, if applicable, cash or, if expressly permitted by the terms of the Securities, a combination of cash and Common Stock sufficient to pay all amounts due and owing on all outstanding Securities (other than Securities replaced pursuant to Section 2.6), and if in either case the Company pays all other sums payable hereunder by the Company, then this Indenture shall, subject to Section 5.6, cease to be of further effect, except for the indemnification of the Trustee, which shall survive such satisfaction and discharge. The Trustee shall join in the execution of a document prepared by the Company acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture on demand of the Company accompanied by an Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel and at the reasonable cost and expense of the Company.
Discharge of Liability on Securities.
     Section 3.2 . Any moneys deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent for the payment of the principal of or interest on any Security and not applied but remaining unclaimed by the Holders for two years after the date upon which the principal of or interest on such Security shall have become due and payable, shall be repaid to the Company by the Trustee or such Paying Agent on demand, and the Holder of any of the Securities entitled to receive such payment shall thereafter look only to the Company for the payment thereof and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such moneys shall thereupon cease.
Repayment of Moneys Held by Trustee or Paying Agent
 
     Section 4.1 . "," wherever used herein with respect to the Securities, shall mean any one of the following events:
Events of Default
Event of Default
     (a) a default in the payment of the Accreted Principal Amount, Redemption Price, Purchase Price or Change in Control Purchase Price with respect to any Security when such payment becomes due and payable pursuant to the terms hereof;
     (b) a default in the payment of any interest, if any, on the Securities, when the same becomes due and payable, for a period of 30 days;
     (c) the failure by the Company to convert any Securities into cash and, if applicable, shares of Common Stock in the amounts set forth in Section 11.2 hereof;
     (d) the failure by the Company to comply with any of its other agreements in the Securities or this Indenture (other than those referred to in clauses (a), (b) or (c) above) upon receipt by the Company of written notice of such default by the Trustee or by Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate Original Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding and such failure (or failure to obtain a waiver thereof) continues for 90 days after receipt by the Company of a Notice of Default;
     (e) the Company pursuant to, under or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law:
     (1) commences a voluntary case or proceeding;
     (2) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case or proceeding or the commencement of any case against it;
     (3) consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for any substantial part of its property;
     (4) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors;
     (5) files a petition in bankruptcy or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief; or
     (6) consents to the filing of such petition or the appointment of or taking possession by a Custodian;
     and
     (f) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
 
     (1) is for relief against the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding, or adjudicates the Company insolvent or bankrupt;
     (2) appoints a Custodian of the Company or for any substantial part of the property of the Company; or
     (3) orders the winding up or liquidation of the Company;
     and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for at least 60 days.
     A Default under clause (d) above is not an Event of Default until the Trustee notifies the Company, or Holder notifies the Company and the Trustee, of the Default and the Company does not cure such Default (and such Default is not waived) within the time specified in clause (d) above after actual receipt of such notice. Any such notice must specify the Default, demand that it be remedied and state that such notice is a "."
Notice of Default
     The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, within 30 days after it becomes aware of the occurrence thereof, written notice of any event which with the giving of notice or the lapse of time, or both, would become an Event of Default under clause (d) above, its status and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
     Section 4.2 . If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 4.1(e) or (f)) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee, by notice to the Company or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Original Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding by notice to the Company and the Trustee, may declare the Accreted Principal Amount of the Securities as of the date of such declaration, and any accrued and unpaid interest, if any, through the date of such declaration, on all the Securities to be immediately due and payable. Upon such a declaration, such Accreted Principal Amount and such accrued and unpaid interest, if any, shall be due and payable immediately. If an Event of Default specified in Section 4.1(e) or (f) occurs and is continuing, the Accreted Principal Amount and any accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all the Securities through the date of the occurrence of such Event of Default shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holders.
Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment
     At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to Securities has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in aggregate Original Principal Amount of the outstanding Securities, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if:
     (1) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay
     (A) all overdue interest, if any, on all Securities,
 
     (B) the principal (including accreted principal, if any) of the Securities which have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and interest thereon at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities,
     (C) to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law, interest upon overdue interest to the date of such payment or deposit at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities or, if no such rate or rates are so prescribed, at the rate borne by the Securities during the period of such default, and
     (D) all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel;
     and
     (2) all Events of Default with respect to the Securities, other than the non-payment of the principal of the Securities which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 4.13.
No such waiver or rescission and annulment shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
     Section 4.3 . The Company covenants that (1) in case default shall be made in the payment of any installment of interest, if any, on any Security, as and when the same shall become due and payable, and such default shall have continued for a period of 30 days or (2) in case default shall be made in the payment of the principal (including accreted principal, if any) of any Security when the same becomes due in accordance with the terms thereof and such default shall have continued for a period of five Business Days then, upon demand of the Trustee, the Company will pay to the Trustee, for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, the whole amount that then shall have become due and payable on all such Securities for principal (including accreted principal, if any) or interest, if any, or both, as the case may be, with interest upon the overdue principal (including accreted principal, if any) and (to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law) upon overdue installments of interest at the rate borne by the Securities during the period of such default; and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover reasonable compensation to the Trustee, its agents, attorneys and counsel, and all other expenses and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee except as a result of its own negligence or willful misconduct.
Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee
     If an Event of Default with respect to Securities occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of the Securities by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem necessary to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
 
     Section 4.4 . In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or the property of the Company or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the Accreted Principal Amount, Redemption Price, Purchase Price, Change in Control Purchase Price or interest, if any, in respect of the Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company for the payment of any such amount) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise,
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim
     (i) to file and prove a claim for the entire Accreted Principal Amount, Redemption Price, Purchase Price, Change in Control Purchase Price and/or interest, if any, owing and unpaid in respect of the Securities and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and of the Holders allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
     (ii) to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 5.6.
     Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
     Section 4.5 . All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities
     Section 4.6 . Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following order:
Application of Money Collected
     FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under Section 5.6;
 
     SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid for Accreted Principal Amount, Redemption Price, Purchase Price, Change in Control Purchase Price or interest, if any, on the Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities; and
     THIRD: To the payment of the remainder, if any, to the Company or as a court of competent jurisdiction may direct.
     Section 4.7 . No Holder of any Security shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless
Limitation on Suits
     (1) such Holder shall have previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities;
     (2) the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate Original Principal Amount of the outstanding Securities shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;
     (3) such Holder or Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it as it may require against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;
     (4) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity shall have failed to institute any such proceeding; and
     (5) no direction inconsistent with such written request shall have been given to the Trustee pursuant to Section 4.12 during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in Original Principal Amount of the outstanding Securities;
it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other of such Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other of such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable and common benefit of all of such Holders.
     Section 4.8 . Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the Accreted Principal Amount, Redemption Price, Purchase Price, Change in Control Purchase Price or interest, if any, on such Security after the respective due dates expressed in such Security, and to convert the Securities in accordance with Article XI, and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal and Interest
 
     Section 4.9 . If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
Restoration of Rights and Remedies
     Section 4.10 . Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities in the last paragraph of Section 2.6, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
Rights and Remedies Cumulative
     Section 4.11 . No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Securities to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
Delay or Omission Not Waiver
     Section 4.12 . The Holders of a majority in aggregate Original Principal Amount of the outstanding Securities shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Securities; , , that
Control by Holders
provided
however
     (1) such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture;
     (2) the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee that is not inconsistent with such direction;
     (3) such direction is not unduly prejudicial to the rights of Holders not taking part in such direction; and
     (4) such direction would not subject the Trustee to personal liability, as the Trustee, upon being advised by counsel, shall reasonably determine.
     Section 4.13 . The Holders of at least a majority in aggregate Original Principal Amount of the outstanding Securities may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities by notice to the Trustee waive any past default hereunder with respect to such Securities and its consequences, except a Default:
Waiver of Past Defaults
     (1) which is an Event of Default described in Section 4.1(a), (b) or (c); or
 
     (2) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article VIII cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each outstanding Security.
     Upon any such waiver, such Default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture, and the Company, the Trustee and Holders shall be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder, respectively; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
     Section 4.14 . All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any Security by his acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this Section 4.14 shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Company, to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Holder, or group of Holders, holding in the aggregate more than 10% in Original Principal Amount of the outstanding Securities, or to any suit instituted by any Holder pursuant to Section 4.8. This Section 4.14 shall be in lieu of Section 315(e) of the TIA and such Section 315(e) is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
Undertaking for Costs
     Section 4.15 . The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, plead or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which would prohibit or forgive the Company from paying all or any portion of the Accreted Principal Amount, Redemption Price, Purchase Price or Change in Control Purchase Price or interest, if any, in respect of Securities, as contemplated herein, or which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws
     Section 5.1 . (a) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise as a prudent Person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such Person's own affairs.
Duties of Trustee
     (b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default:
 
     (1) the Trustee need perform only those duties that are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no others; and
     (2) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture. However, in case of any such certificates or opinions which by provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall examine the certificates and opinions to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein).
     This Section 5.1(b) shall be in lieu of Section 315(a) of the TIA and such Section 315(a) is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
     (c) The Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that:
     (1) this paragraph (c) does not limit the effect of paragraph (b) of this Section 5.1;
     (2) the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and
     (3) the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 4.12.
     Subparagraphs (c)(1), (2) and (3) shall be in lieu of Sections 315(d)(1), 315(d)(2) and 315(d)(3) of the TIA and such Sections 315(d)(1), 315(d)(2) and 315(d)(3) are hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
     (d) Every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (e) of this Section 5.1.
     (e) The Trustee may refuse to perform any duty or exercise any right or power or extend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability unless it receives indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability and expense.
     (f) Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee (acting in any capacity hereunder) shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder unless otherwise agreed in writing with the Company.
     Section 5.2 . The following are rights of the Trustee, subject to the Trustee's duties and responsibilities under the TIA:
Rights of Trustee
 
     (a) the Trustee may conclusively rely on any document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper Person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document;
     (b) before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel. The Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel;
     (c) the Trustee may act through agents and attorneys and shall not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent or attorney appointed with due care;
     (d) subject to the provisions of Section 5.1(c), the Trustee shall not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith which it believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers;
     (e) the Trustee may consult with counsel selected by it and any advice or Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken or suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in accordance with such advice or Opinion of Counsel;
     (f) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request, order or direction of any of the Holders, pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which may be incurred therein or thereby;
     (g) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney at the sole cost of the Company and shall incur no liability or additional liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation;
     (h) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered, or omitted to be taken by it in good faith and reasonably believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture;
     (i) the Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact a Default or Event of Default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture;
     (j) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be
 
enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and to each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder;
     (k) the Trustee may request that the Company deliver an Officers' Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture, which Officers' Certificate may be signed by any Person authorized to sign an Officers' Certificate, including any Person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded; and
     (l) the right of the Trustee to perform any discretionary act enumerated in this Indenture shall not be construed as a duty, and the Trustee shall not be answerable for other than its negligence or willful misconduct in the performance of such act.
     Section 5.3 . The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any Paying Agent, Registrar, Conversion Agent or co-registrar may do the same with like rights. However, the Trustee must comply with Sections 5.9 and 5.10.
Individual Rights of Trustee
     Section 5.4 . The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Securities, it shall not be accountable for the Company's use or application of the proceeds from the Securities, it shall not be responsible for any statement in the registration statement for the Securities under the Securities Act or in the Indenture or the Securities (other than its certificate of authentication), or the determination as to which beneficial owners are entitled to receive any notices hereunder.
Trustee's Disclaimer
     Section 5.5 . If a Default occurs and if it is known to the Trustee, the Trustee shall give to each Holder notice of the Default within 90 days after it occurs unless such Default shall have been cured or waived before the giving of such notice. Except in the case of a Default described in Section 4.1(a), (b) or (c), the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of Holders. The second sentence of this Section 5.5 shall be in lieu of the proviso to Section 315(b) of the TIA and such proviso is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
Notice of Defaults
     Section 5.6 . The Company agrees:
Compensation and Indemnity
     (a) to pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation as the Company and the Trustee shall from time to time agree in writing for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited (to the extent permitted by law) by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
     (b) to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses, advances and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as shall be determined to have been caused by its own negligence or willful misconduct; and
 
     (c) to fully indemnify the Trustee, its officers, employees and/or any predecessor trustee and their agents for, and to hold them harmless against, any loss, damage, claim, liability, cost or expense (including reasonable attorney's fees and expenses and taxes (other than taxes based upon, measured by or determined by the income of the Trustee)) incurred without negligence or willful misconduct on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim (whether asserted by the Company, any Holder or any other Person) or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder.
     To secure the Company's payment obligations in this Section 5.6, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, except that held in trust to pay the Accreted Principal Amount, Redemption Price, Purchase Price, Change in Control Purchase Price or interest, if any, as the case may be, on particular Securities.
     The Company's payment obligations pursuant to this Section 5.6 shall survive the discharge of this Indenture and resignation or removal of the Trustee. When the Trustee incurs expenses after the occurrence of a Default specified in Section 4.1(f) or (g), the expenses, including the reasonable fees and expenses of its counsel, are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law.
     Section 5.7 . The Trustee may resign by so notifying the Company; no such resignation shall be effective until a successor Trustee has accepted its appointment pursuant to this Section 5.7. The Holders of a majority in aggregate Original Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding may remove the Trustee by so notifying the Trustee and the Company. The Company shall remove the Trustee if:
Replacement of Trustee
provided, however,
     (a) the Trustee fails to comply with Section 5.9;
     (b) the Trustee is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent;
     (c) a receiver or public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or
     (d) the Trustee otherwise becomes incapable of acting.
     If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, the Company shall promptly appoint, by resolution of its Board of Directors, a successor Trustee.
     A successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company satisfactory in form and substance to the retiring Trustee and the Company. Thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture. The successor Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to the Holders. The retiring Trustee shall upon payment of its charges by the Company hereunder promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, subject to the lien provided for in Section 5.6.
 
     If a successor Trustee does not take office within 30 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee (at the expense of the Company), the Company or the Holders of a majority in aggregate Original Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding may petition at the expense of the Company any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
     If the Trustee fails to comply with Section 5.9, any Holder may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
     Section 5.8 If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all its corporate trust business or assets to another corporation, the resulting, surviving or transferee corporation without any further act shall be the successor Trustee.
Successor Trustee by Merger.
     Section 5.9 . The Trustee shall at all times satisfy the requirements of TIA Sections 310(a)(1) and 310(b). The Trustee shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Trustee from filing with the Commission the application referred to in the penultimate paragraph of TIA Section 310(b).
Eligibility; Disqualification
     Section 5.10 . The Trustee shall comply with TIA Section 311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA Section 311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA Section 311(a) to the extent indicated therein.
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company
     Section 5.11 . In connection with the issuance of the Securities and at any time when any of the Securities remain outstanding the Trustee, with the concurrence of the Company, may appoint an authenticating agent or agents (each, an "") which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate such Securities, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Whenever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or to the Certificate of Authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a Certificate of Authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall at all times be a bank or trust company organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by Federal, State or District of Columbia authority. If such Authenticating Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section 5.11, the combined capital and surplus of such Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section 5.11.
Appointment of Authenticating Agent
Authenticating Agent
 
     Any bank or trust company into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any bank or trust company resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any bank or trust company succeeding to the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent, provided such bank or trust company shall be otherwise eligible under this Section 5.11, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.
     An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.11, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall mail written notice of such appointment by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register. Any successor Authenticating Agent, upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder, shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section 5.11.
     The Company agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time, reasonable compensation for its services under this Section 5.11.
     The Company and the Trustee hereby agree to the appointment of U.S. Bank Trust, and U.S. Bank Trust agrees to be appointed, as Authenticating Agent.
     Section 6.1 . The Company covenants and agrees that it will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee:
Company to Furnish Trustee Information as to Names and Addresses of Holders
     (a) Semi-annually, not later than June 1 and December 1 in each year, commencing December 1, 2006, a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished and
     (b) at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished;
, that if the Trustee becomes the Registrar, no such list shall be required to be furnished.
provided
however,
 
     Section 6.2 . (a) The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, all information as to the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities contained in the most recent list furnished to it as provided in Section 6.1.
Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders
     The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 6.1 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
     (b) In case three or more Holders of Securities (hereinafter called "") apply in writing to the Trustee, and furnish to the Trustee reasonable proof that each such applicant has owned a Security of such series for a period of at least six months preceding the date of such application, and such application states that the applicants desire to communicate with other Holders of Securities with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities, and is accompanied by a copy of the form of proxy or other communication which such applicants propose to transmit, then the Trustee shall, within five Business Days after the receipt of such application, at its election, either
applicants
     (1) afford such applicants access to the information preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (a) of this Section 6.2, or
     (2) inform such applicants as to the approximate number of Holders of Securities of such series or of all series, as the case may be, whose names and addresses appear in the information preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (a) of this Section 6.2, and as to the approximate cost of mailing to such Holders the form of proxy or other communication, if any, specified in such application.
     If the Trustee shall elect not to afford such applicants access to such information, the Trustee shall, upon the written request of such applicants, mail to each Holder of Securities whose name and address appear in the information preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (a) of this Section 6.2, a copy of the form of proxy or other communication which is specified in such request, with reasonable promptness after a tender to the Trustee of the material to be mailed and of payment, or provision for the payment, of the reasonable expenses of mailing, unless within five days after such tender the Trustee shall mail to such applicants and file with the Commission, together with a copy of the material to be mailed, a written statement to the effect that, in the opinion of the Trustee, such mailing would be contrary to the best interests of the Holders of Securities, or would be in violation of applicable law. Such written statement shall specify the basis of such opinion. If the Commission, after opportunity for a hearing upon the objections specified in the written statement so filed, shall enter an order refusing to sustain any of such objections or if, after the entry of an order sustaining one or more of such objections, the Commission shall find, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that all the objections so sustained have been met and shall enter an order so declaring, the Trustee shall mail copies of such material to all such Holders with reasonable promptness after the entry of such order and the renewal of such tender; otherwise the Trustee shall be relieved of any obligation or duty to such applicants respecting their application.
 
     (c) Each and every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee or any Registrar, any Paying Agent or any Conversion Agent shall be held accountable by reason of the disclosure of any such information as to the names and addresses of the Holders in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section 6.2, regardless of the source from which such information was derived, and that the Trustee shall not be held accountable by reason of mailing any material pursuant to a request made under said subsection (b).
     Section 6.3 . Within 60 days after each May 5 beginning with May 15, 2007, the Trustee shall mail to each Holder and the Company a brief report dated as of such May 15 that complies with TIA Section 313(a), if required by such Section 313(a). The Trustee also shall comply with TIA Section 313(b).
Reports by Trustee
     A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to Holders shall be filed by the Company with the Commission and each securities exchange, if any, on which the Securities are then listed. The Company agrees to promptly notify the Trustee whenever the Securities become listed on any securities exchange and of any delisting thereof.
     Section 6.4 . The Company shall file with the Trustee, within 15 days after it files such annual and quarterly reports, information, documents and other reports with the Commission, copies of its annual report and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the Commission may by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company is required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. In the event the Company is at any time no longer subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, it shall continue to provide the Trustee with reports containing substantially the same information as would have been required to be filed with the Commission had the Company continued to have been subject to such reporting requirements. In such event, such reports shall be provided at the times the Company would have been required to provide reports had it continued to have been subject to such reporting requirements. The Company also shall comply with the other provisions of TIA Section 314(a).
Reports by Company
     Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
     If at any time while any of the Securities are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144, the Company is no longer subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the Company will prepare and will furnish to any Holder, any beneficial owner of Securities and any prospective purchaser of Securities designated by a Holder or a beneficial owner of Securities, promptly upon request, the information required pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) (or any successor thereto) under the Securities Act in connection with the offer, sale or transfer of Securities.
 
     Section 7.1 . The Company shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person, unless:
Consolidations and Mergers of Company Permitted Subject to Certain Conditions
     (a) either (1) the Company shall be the continuing corporation or (2) the Person (if other than the Company) formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the Person that acquires by conveyance, transfer or lease all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company (i) shall be duly incorporated and validly existing under the laws of the United States or any State thereof or the District of Columbia and (ii) shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, all of the obligations of the Company under the Securities and this Indenture;
     (b) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing;
     (c) if, as a result of such transaction, the Securities become convertible into Common Stock or other securities issued by a third party, such third party fully and unconditionally guarantees all obligations of the Company or such successor under the Securities, this Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement; and
     (d) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture, comply with this Article VII and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been satisfied.
     For purposes of the foregoing, the transfer (by lease, assignment, sale or otherwise) of the properties and assets of one or more Subsidiaries (other than to the Company or another Subsidiary), which, if such assets were owned by the Company, would constitute all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company, shall be deemed to be the transfer of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company.
     The successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the successor Person to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor had been named as the Company herein; and thereafter, except in the case of a lease and obligations the Company may have under a supplemental indenture pursuant to Section 11.11, the Company shall be discharged from all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities. Subject to Section 8.3, the Company, the Trustee and the successor Person shall enter into a supplemental indenture to evidence the succession and substitution of such successor Person and such discharge and release of the Company.
 
     Section 7.2 . Upon any consolidation of the Company with, or merger of the Company into, any other Person or any conveyance, transfer or lease of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company in accordance with Section 7.1, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the predecessor Person shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities.
Rights and Duties of Successor Corporation
     Section 8.1 . The Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto (which shall conform to the provisions of the TIA as in force at the date of the execution thereof) for one or more of the following purposes:
Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders
     (1) to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company, or successive successions, and the assumption by the successor corporation of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company under this Indenture;
     (2) to add to the covenants of the Company or to add additional rights for the benefit of the Holders of Securities or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company;
     (3) to cure any ambiguity, omission, defect or inconsistency herein, to correct or supplement any provision herein or in any supplemental indenture that may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision herein or in any supplemental indenture, or to make such other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture; provided such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities in any material respect;
     (4) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trust hereunder;
     (5) to add any additional Events of Default for the benefit of the Holders of Securities;
     (6) to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in definitive form, registrable or not registrable as to principal, and to provide for exchangeability of such Securities with Securities issued hereunder in fully registered form;
 
     (7) to secure the Securities; and
     (8) to comply with any requirement of the Commission in connection with the qualification of this Indenture under the TIA.
     Any amendment described in clause (3) above made solely to conform this Indenture to the final offering memorandum provided to investors in connection with the initial offering of the Securities by the Company will not be deemed to adversely affect the interests of Holders of Securities in any respect.
     The Trustee is hereby authorized to join with the Company in the execution of any such supplemental indenture, to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations which may be therein contained and to accept the conveyance, transfer, assignment, mortgage or pledge of any property thereunder.
     Any supplemental indenture authorized by the provisions of this Section 8.1 may be executed by the Company and the Trustee without the consent of the Holders of any of the outstanding Securities, notwithstanding any of the provisions of Section 8.2.
     Section 8.2 . With the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in Original Principal Amount of the outstanding Securities, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto (which shall conform to the provisions of the TIA as in force at the date of execution thereof) for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of Securities; , , that no such supplemental indenture shall
Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders
provided
however
     (1) change, in an adverse manner, the rights of the Holders of the Securities to convert the Securities;
     (2) change, in an adverse manner, the rights of the Holders of the Securities to require the Company to repurchase their Securities on specific dates pursuant to Article XII or upon a Change in Control pursuant to Article XIII;
     (3) change the maturity of any payment of principal of, or any installment of interest, if any, on the Securities, or reduce the Original Principal Amount or the Accreted Principal Amount thereof or alter the manner or rate of accretion of principal or the manner or rate of accrual of interest, if any, or any premium thereon, or change the place of payment where, or the coin or currency in which the Securities or any premium or interest, if any, thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption or purchase, on or after the Redemption Date or the Purchase Date or a Change in Control Purchase Date, as the case may be);
     (4) reduce the percentage in aggregate Original Principal Amount of the outstanding Securities, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such
 
modification, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver of compliance with the provisions of this Indenture or for any waiver of an Event of Default; or
     (5) modify this Section 8.2, except to increase any percentages required for approval or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each outstanding Security affected thereby.
     Upon the request of the Company accompanied by a copy of a Board Resolution authorizing the execution of any such supplemental indenture, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence of the consent of Holders as aforesaid, the Trustee shall join with the Company in the execution of such supplemental indenture. It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
     Section 8.3 . In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be provided with, and (subject to Section 5.1) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
Execution of Supplemental Indentures
     Section 8.4 . Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article, this Indenture shall be and be deemed to be modified and amended in accordance therewith, and the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities under this Indenture of the Trustee, the Company and the Holders shall thereafter be determined, exercised and enforced hereunder subject in all respects to such modifications and amendments, and all the terms and conditions of any such supplemental indenture shall be and be deemed to be part of the terms and conditions of this Indenture for any and all purposes.
Effect of Supplemental Indentures
     Section 8.5 . Securities authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for outstanding Securities.
Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures
     Section 9.1 . The Company covenants and agrees that it will duly and punctually pay or cause to be paid all payments in respect of the
Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest
 
Securities in accordance with the terms of the Securities and this Indenture. Any amounts to be given to the Trustee or Paying Agent shall be deposited with the Trustee or Paying Agent by 12:00 P.M., New York City time by the Company at the latest on the day such payment is due. Accreted Principal Amount, Redemption Price, Purchase Price, Change in Control Purchase Price and interest, if any, shall be considered paid on the applicable date due if on such date (or, in the case of a Purchase Price or Change in Control Purchase Price, on the Business Day following the applicable Purchase Date or Change in Control Purchase Date, as the case may be) the Trustee or the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, money or securities, if permitted hereunder, sufficient to pay all such amounts then due. The Company further covenants to pay any and all amounts, including, without limitation, Liquidated Damages, as may be required pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement.
     Section 9.2 . The Company shall maintain an office or agency of the Trustee, where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served. The office of the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office shall initially be such office or agency for said purpose. The Company shall maintain an office or agency of the Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent where the Securities may be presented or surrendered for payment, where the Securities may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where the Securities may be surrendered for purchase, redemption or conversion. The office of U.S. Bank Trust at the Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent Office shall initially be such office or agency for all of the aforesaid purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such offices or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
Maintenance of Office or Agency
     The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; , , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York for such purposes.
provided
however
     Section 9.3 . If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to the Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the Accreted Principal Amount, Redemption Price, Purchase Price, Change in Control Purchase Price and interest, if any, on any of the Securities, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay such sums so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee of any failure by the Company to take such action or failure so to act.
Money for Securities Payments to Be Held in Trust
     Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for the Securities, it will, on or prior to each due date of the Accreted Principal Amount, Redemption Price, Purchase Price, Change in Control Purchase Price and interest, if any, on any Securities, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay such amounts so becoming due, such sum to be held in
 
trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such amounts, and the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
     The Company will cause each Paying Agent, other than the Trustee (should the Trustee ever become a Paying Agent), to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section 9.3, that such Paying Agent will:
     (1) hold all sums held by it for the payment of the Accreted Principal Amount, Redemption Price, Purchase Price, Change in Control Purchase Price and interest, if any, on the Securities (whether such sums have been paid to it by the Company or by any other obligor on the Securities) in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto;
     (2) give the Trustee notice of any failure by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities) to make any payment of the Accreted Principal Amount, Redemption Price, Purchase Price, Change in Control Purchase Price and interest, if any, on the Securities when the same shall be due and payable; and
     (3) at any time during the continuance of any Event of Default, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent.
     Anything in this Section to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company may, at any time, for the purpose of obtaining satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, or for any other reason, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
     Section 9.4 . The Company will deliver to the Trustee, on or before a date not more than 120 days after the end of each fiscal year beginning in the fiscal year 2006, an Officers' Certificate, one of the signers of which shall be the principal financial, principal accounting or principal executive officer of the Company, stating, as to each officer signing such certificate, whether or not to the best of his knowledge the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions hereof (without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder), and, if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature thereof of which he may have knowledge.
Compliance Certificate
     Section 9.5 . The Company shall file with the Trustee, within 30 days following the end of each calendar year, a written notice specifying (a) the amount of Tax Original Issue Discount (including the daily rates and accrual periods) accrued on outstanding Securities as of the end of such year and (b) such other specific information relating to such Tax Original Issue Discount as may then be relevant under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Calculation of Certain Amounts
 
     Section 9.6 . The Company will execute and deliver such further instruments and do such further acts as may be reasonably necessary or proper or as the Trustee may request to carry out more effectively the purposes of this Indenture.
Further Instruments and Acts
     Section 10.1 . The Company, at its option, may redeem the Securities at any time on or after September 20, 2007. If the Company elects to redeem Securities pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Securities, it shall notify the Trustee in writing of the Redemption Date, the Accreted Principal Amount of Securities to be redeemed, the Redemption Price, the percentage of the Daily Share Amount that will be settled in cash, if any, and the Conversion Value.
Right to Redeem; Notices to Trustee
     The Company shall give the notice to the Trustee provided for in this Section 10.1 by a Company Order, at least 30 days before the Redemption Date.
     Section 10.2 . If less than all the Securities are to be redeemed, the Registrar shall select the Securities to be redeemed pro rata or by lot or by any other method the Registrar considers fair and appropriate (so long as such method is not prohibited by the rules of any stock exchange on which the Securities are then listed). The Registrar shall make the selection at least 15 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date from outstanding Securities not previously called for redemption. The Registrar may select for redemption portions of the Original Principal Amount of Securities that have denominations larger than $1,000. Securities and portions of Securities the Registrar selects shall be in Original Principal Amounts of $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to Securities called for redemption also apply to portions of Securities called for redemption. The Registrar shall notify the Company promptly of the Securities or portions of Securities to be redeemed.
Selection of Securities to Be Redeemed
     If any Security selected for partial redemption is converted in part before termination of the conversion right with respect to the portion of the Security so selected, the converted portion of such Security shall be deemed (so far as may be) to be the portion selected for redemption. Securities which have been converted during a selection of Securities to be redeemed may be treated by the Registrar as outstanding for the purpose of such selection.
     Section 10.3 . At least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a Redemption Date, the Company shall mail a notice of redemption by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed.
Notice of Redemption
     The notice shall identify the Securities to be redeemed and shall at a minimum state:
     (a) the Redemption Date;
     (b) the Redemption Price, or if then not ascertainable, the manner of calculation thereof, and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, payable on the Redemption Date;
 
     (c) the percentage of the Daily Share Amount that will be settled in cash, if any;
     (d) the dates and manner in which the Conversion Value shall be calculated;
     (e) the name and address of the Paying Agent and Conversion Agent;
     (f) that Securities called for redemption may be converted at any time before 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately preceding the Redemption Date;
     (g) that Holders who want to convert Securities must satisfy the requirements set forth in the applicable provisions of the Securities;
     (h) that Securities called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the Redemption Price;
     (i) if fewer than all the outstanding Securities are to be redeemed, the certificate number and Original Principal Amounts of the particular Securities to be redeemed;
     (j) that, unless the Company defaults in making payment of such Redemption Price, principal on the Securities called for redemption will cease to accrete and interest, if any, will cease to accrue on and after the Redemption Date; and
     (k) the CUSIP number of the Securities.
     At the Company's request, the Trustee shall give the notice of redemption in the Company's name and at the Company's expense, provided that the Company makes such request at least three Business Days prior to such notice of redemption.
     Section 10.4 . Once notice of redemption is given, Securities called for redemption become due and payable on the Redemption Date and at the Redemption Price stated in the notice except for Securities which are converted in accordance with the terms of this Indenture. Upon surrender to the Paying Agent, such Securities shall be paid at the Redemption Price stated in the notice.
Effect of Notice of Redemption
     Section 10.5 . Prior to 12:00 P.M., New York City time on the Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent (or if the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them is the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust) money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price, together with interest, if any, accrued and unpaid to the Redemption Date, of all Securities to be redeemed on that date other than Securities or portions of Securities called for redemption which on or prior thereto have been delivered by the Company to the Trustee for cancellation or have been converted.
Deposit of Redemption Price
     Section 10.6 . Upon surrender of a Security that is redeemed in part, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder a new Security in an authorized denomination equal in Original Principal Amount to the unredeemed portion of the Security surrendered.
Securities Redeemed in Part
 
     Section 11.1 The Securities shall be convertible at any time on or prior to September 20, 2036 in accordance with their terms and in accordance with and subject to this Article XI into cash and a number of shares, if any, of Common Stock per $1,000 Original Principal Amount of Securities surrendered for conversion, subject to the right of the Company to deliver cash in lieu of all or a portion of such shares of Common Stock, together with any payment for fractional shares, as described below.
Conversion Rights.
     In respect of each $1,000 Original Principal Amount of Securities surrendered for conversion, the Company will deliver (1) cash in an amount equal to the lesser of (i) the Accreted Principal Amount of such Security as of the Conversion Date and (ii) the Conversion Value and (2) if the Conversion Value is greater than the Accreted Principal Amount of such Security as of the Conversion Date, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the sum of the Daily Share Amounts for each of the ten consecutive Trading Days in the applicable Conversion Reference Period, subject to the right of the Company to deliver cash in lieu of all or a portion of such shares of Common Stock pursuant to Section 11.2.
     Section 11.2 On any day prior to the first Trading Day of the applicable Conversion Reference Period, the Company may specify a percentage of the Daily Share Amount that will be settled in cash (the "") by delivering a written notice to the Conversion Agent setting forth such percentage. If the Company elects to specify a Cash Percentage, the amount of cash that it will deliver in respect of each Trading Day in the applicable Conversion Reference Period will equal the product of (i) the Cash Percentage, (ii) the Daily Share Amount for such Trading Day and (iii) the Closing Sale Price of the Common Stock for such Trading Day. The number of shares of Common Stock deliverable in respect of each Trading Day in the applicable Conversion Reference Period will be a percentage of the Daily Share Amount equal to 100% minus the Cash Percentage. If the Company does not specify a Cash Percentage by the start of the applicable Conversion Reference Period, the Company must settle 100% of the Daily Share Amount for each Trading Day in the applicable Conversion Reference Period with shares of Common Stock; , , that the Company will pay cash in lieu of fractional shares otherwise issuable upon conversion of such Security.
Cash Settlement.
Cash Percentage
provided
however
     Section 11.3 To convert a Security, a Holder must (a) complete and manually sign the notice on the back of the Security which states that such Holder wishes to convert a Security (the "") or a facsimile of the Conversion Notice and deliver such notice to a Conversion Agent, (b) surrender the Security to a Conversion Agent, (c) furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents if required by the Registrar or a Conversion Agent and (d) pay any transfer or similar tax, if required. The date on which such Holder satisfies the foregoing requirements is the "."
Conversion Procedures.
Conversion Notice
Conversion Date
     As soon as practicable following the end of the applicable Conversion Reference Period, the Company shall deliver to the Holder, through the Conversion Agent, the amount of cash due to a Holder upon conversion, together with a certificate for the number of shares of Common Stock, if any, then due and any cash payment for fractional shares pursuant to Section 11.4.
 
Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, in the case of Global Securities, Conversion Notices may be delivered and such Securities may be surrendered for conversion in accordance with the applicable procedures of the Depositary as in effect from time to time. The Person in whose name the Common Stock certificate, if any, is registered shall be deemed to be a shareholder of record at the close of business on the date on which the applicable Conversion Value is determined with respect to the applicable Conversion Reference Period; , , that no surrender of a Security on any date when the stock transfer books of the Company are closed shall be effective to constitute the Person or Persons entitled to receive the shares of Common Stock, if any, upon such conversion as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock on such date.
provided
however
     No payment or adjustment shall be made for dividends on, or other distributions with respect to, any Common Stock except as provided in this Article. On conversion of a Security prior to September 20, 2031, except as provided below in the case of certain Securities or portions thereof called for redemption, that portion of accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the converted Security attributable to the period from the most recent Interest Payment Date (or, if no Interest Payment Date has occurred, from the Issue Date) through the Conversion Date shall not be canceled, extinguished or forfeited, but rather shall be deemed to be paid in full to the Holder thereof through the delivery of cash and Common Stock, if any, (together with the cash payment, if any, in lieu of fractional shares), in exchange for the Security being converted pursuant to the provisions hereof, and cash, together with the fair market value of such shares of Common Stock, if any, (together with any such cash payment in lieu of fractional shares), shall be treated as issued, to the extent thereof, first in exchange for accrued and unpaid interest, if any, accrued through the Conversion Date and the balance, if any, of such cash payment, together with the fair market value of such Common Stock, if any, shall be treated as issued in exchange for the Original Principal Amount of the Security being converted pursuant to the provisions hereof.
     On conversion of a Security on or after September 21, 2031, the accretion of the principal amount attributable to the period from and including September 20, 2031, through the Conversion Date, including (except as provided below) accrued interest, if any, with respect to the converted Security shall not be canceled, extinguished or forfeited, but rather shall be deemed to be paid in full to the Holder thereof through the delivery of cash and Common Stock, if any, (together with the cash payment, if any, in lieu of fractional shares) in exchange for the Security being converted pursuant to the provisions hereof; and the cash, together with the fair market value of such shares, of Common Stock, if any, (together with any such cash payment in lieu of fractional shares) shall be treated as issued, to the extent thereof, first in exchange for the accretion of the principal amount from the Issue Date through the Conversion Date and accrued interest, if any, and the balance of any such cash payment and the fair market value of such Common Stock, if any, shall be treated as issued in exchange for the Original Principal Amount of the Security being converted pursuant to the provisions hereof.
     If a Holder converts more than one Security at the same time, the cash payment and the number of shares, if any, of Common Stock issuable upon the conversion shall be based on the aggregate Original Principal Amount of Securities converted.
 
     Upon surrender of a Security that is converted in part, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder, a new Security equal in Original Principal Amount to the Original Principal Amount of the unconverted portion of the Security surrendered.
     If any Securities are converted after a Regular Record Date but prior to the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, Holders of such Securities at the close of business on such Regular Record Date shall receive the interest payable on such Securities on the corresponding Interest Payment Date notwithstanding the conversion. Such Securities, upon surrender for conversion, must be accompanied by funds equal to the amount of interest payable on the Accreted Principal Amount of the Securities so converted (unless the Company has specified a Redemption Date or a Change in Control Purchase Date that occurs after a Regular Record Date and on or prior to the Interest Payment Date to which it relates), in which case no such payment shall be required. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, if the Company specifies a Redemption Date that is in the month of September 2007, such payment also shall not be required upon the surrender of Securities for conversion after September 1, 2007 and prior to such Redemption Date.
     Section 11.4 The Company shall not issue a fractional share of Common Stock upon conversion of a Security. Instead, the Company will deliver cash for the current market value of the fractional share. The current market value of a fractional share of Common Stock shall be determined, to the nearest 1/1,000th of a share, by multiplying the Closing Sale Price of one share of the Company's Common Stock in effect on the applicable date by the fractional amount and rounding the product to the nearest whole cent.
Fractional Shares.
     Section 11.5 If a Holder converts a Security, the Company shall pay any documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer tax due on the issue of shares, if any, of Common Stock upon such conversion. However, the Holder shall pay any such tax that is due because the Holder requests the shares, if any, to be issued in a name other than the Holder's name. The Conversion Agent may refuse to deliver the certificate, if any, representing the Common Stock being issued in a name other than the Holder's name until the Conversion Agent receives a sum sufficient to pay any tax which will be due because the shares, if any, are to be issued in a name other than the Holder's name. Nothing herein shall preclude any tax withholding required by law or regulation.
Taxes on Conversion.
     Section 11.6 The Company shall, prior to the issuance of any Securities under this Article, and from time to time as may be necessary, reserve, out of its authorized but unissued Common Stock, a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock to permit the conversion of all Securities outstanding into shares of Common Stock assuming the Conversion Rate in effect. Any shares of Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Securities shall be newly issued shares, shall be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and shall be free from preemptive rights and free of any lien or adverse claim.
Company to Provide Common Stock.
     The Company will endeavor promptly to comply with all federal and state securities laws regulating the registration of the offer and delivery of shares of Common Stock, if any, to a converting Holder upon conversion of Securities.
 
     If any shares of Common Stock which would be issuable upon conversion of Securities hereunder require registration with or approval of any governmental authority before such shares or securities may be issued upon such conversion, the Company will in good faith and as expeditiously as possible endeavor to cause such shares or securities to be duly registered or approved, as the case may be. The Company further covenants that so long as the Common Stock shall be listed on The New York Stock Exchange, the Company will, if permitted by the rules of such exchange, list and keep listed all Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities, and the Company will endeavor to list the shares of Common Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the Securities prior to such delivery upon any other national securities exchange upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such delivery.
     Section 11.7 Adjustment of Conversion Rate
     (a) In case the Company shall, while any of the Securities are outstanding, (i) pay a dividend or make a distribution with respect to its Common Stock in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide its outstanding shares of Common Stock, (iii) combine its outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares or (iv) issue by recapitalization or reclassification of its shares of Common Stock any shares of Capital Stock of the Company, then the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to such action shall be adjusted so that the Holders of any Securities thereafter surrendered for conversion shall be entitled to receive the number of shares of Capital Stock of the Company which such Holder would have owned immediately following such action had such Securities been converted immediately prior thereto. An adjustment made pursuant to this Section 11.7(a) shall become effective immediately after the record date in the case of a dividend or other distribution and shall become effective immediately after the effective date in case of a subdivision, combination, recapitalization or reclassification (or immediately after the record date if a record date shall have been established for such event); , , that in the event that such dividend or distribution is not so paid or made, or such subdivision, combination, recapitalization or reclassification is not effected, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect but for such proposed transaction. If, as a result of an adjustment made pursuant to this Section 11.7(a), the Holder of any Security thereafter surrendered for conversion shall become entitled to receive shares of two or more classes or series of Capital Stock of the Company, the Board of Directors (whose determination shall be conclusive and shall be described in a Board Resolution filed with the Trustee) shall determine the allocation of the adjusted Conversion Rate between or among shares of such classes or series of Capital Stock.
provided
however
     (b) In case the Company shall, while any of the Securities are outstanding, issue rights or warrants to all holders of its Common Stock entitling them to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at a price per share less than the Current Market Price per share of Common Stock on such record date, then the Conversion Rate for the Securities shall be adjusted so that the same shall equal the ratio determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the date of issuance of such rights or warrants by a fraction of which the numerator shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on the date of issuance of such rights or warrants plus the number of additional shares of Common Stock offered for subscription or purchase, and of which the denominator shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on the date of issuance of such rights or warrants plus the number of
 
shares which the aggregate offering price of the total number of shares so offered for subscription or purchase would purchase at such Current Market Price. Such adjustment shall become effective immediately after the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive such rights or warrants. For the purposes of this Section 11.7(b), the number of shares of Common Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held in the treasury of the Company. The Company shall not issue any rights or warrants in respect of the shares of Common Stock held in the treasury of the Company. In case any rights or warrants referred to in this Section 11.7(b) in respect of which an adjustment shall have been made shall expire unexercised after the same shall have been distributed or issued by the Company, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted at the time of such expiration to the Conversion Rate that would have been in effect if no adjustment had been made in respect of such unexercised rights or warrants. If the Company shall at any time issue two or more securities as a unit and one or more of such securities shall be rights or warrants for Common Stock subject to this Section 11.7(b), the consideration allocated to each such security shall be determined in good faith by the Board of Directors whose determination shall be conclusive and described in an Officers' Certificate filed with the Trustee.
     (c) In case the Company shall, by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all holders of its Common Stock evidences of its indebtedness, shares of any class or series of its Capital Stock, cash or assets (including securities and shares of the Company's Subsidiaries, but excluding any dividend or distribution referred to in Section 11.7(a), any rights or warrants referred to in Section 11.7(b), and any dividend or distribution paid exclusively in cash described in Section 11.7(d)) then the Conversion Rate shall be increased so that the same shall equal the ratio determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Conversion Rate increase contemplated by this Section 11.7(c) by a fraction of which the numerator shall be the Current Market Price per share of Common Stock on the date fixed for the payment of such distribution (the ""), and of which the denominator shall be the Current Market Price per share of the Common Stock on the Reference Date less the fair market value (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors, whose determination shall be conclusive and described in a Board Resolution), on the Reference Date, of the portion of the evidences of indebtedness, shares of Capital Stock, cash and assets so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock, such increase to become effective immediately prior to the opening of business on the day following the Reference Date. In the event that such dividend or distribution is not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not occurred.
Reference Date
     If the Board of Directors determines the fair market value of any distribution for purposes of this Section 11.7(c) by reference to the actual or when issued trading market for any securities comprising such distribution, it must in doing so consider the prices in such market over the same period used in computing the Current Market Price per share of Common Stock. If the Board of Directors determines the Fair Market Value of any distribution for purposes of this Section 11.7(d) by reference to the actual or when issued trading market for any distributed assets comprising all or part of such distribution, it must in doing so consider the prices in such market over the same period (the "") used in computing the Current Market Price pursuant to Section 9.3(g) to the extent possible, unless the Board of Directors determines in good faith that determining the Fair Market Value during the Reference Period would not be in the best interest of the Holders.
Reference Period
 
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event any such distribution consists of shares of capital stock of, or similar equity interests in, one or more of the Company's Subsidiaries (a ""), the Conversion Rate shall be increased so that the same shall be equal to the rate determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the close of business on the Record Date with respect to such distribution by a fraction:
Spin-Off
          (1) the numerator of which shall be the Current Market Price of the Common Stock (determined as set forth in the third and fourth succeeding sentences), plus the Fair Market Value on such date of the portion of the distributed assets so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock (determined on the basis of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on the record date) (determined as set forth in the third and fourth succeeding sentences); and
          (2) the denominator of which shall be the Current Market Price on such date.
     Such increase shall become effective immediately prior to the opening of business on the day following the last Trading Day of the Spin-Off Valuation Period. In the event that such dividend or distribution is not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared. In the case of a Spin-Off, the Fair Market Value of the securities to be distributed shall equal the average of the closing sale prices of such securities on the principal securities market on which such securities are traded for the five consecutive Trading Days commencing on and including the sixth day of trading of those securities after the effectiveness of the Spin-Off (the ""), and the Current Market Price shall be measured for the same period. In the event, however, that an underwritten initial public offering of the securities in the Spin-Off occurs simultaneously with the Spin-Off, Fair Market Value of the securities distributed in the Spin-Off shall mean the initial public offering price of such securities and the Current Market Price shall mean the Sale Price for the Common Stock on the same Trading Day.
Spin-Off Valuation Period
     Rights or warrants distributed by the Company to all holders of its shares of Common Stock entitling them to subscribe for or purchase shares of the Company's capital stock (either initially or under certain circumstances), which rights or warrants, until the occurrence of a specified event or events (""), (i) are deemed to be transferred with such shares of Common Stock, (ii) are not exercisable and (iii) are also issued in respect of future issuances of shares of Common Stock shall be deemed not to have been distributed for purposes of this Section 11.7(d) (and no adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Section 11.7(d) will be required) until the occurrence of the earliest Trigger Event. If such right or warrant is subject to subsequent events, upon the occurrence of which such right or warrant shall become exercisable to purchase different distributed assets, evidences of indebtedness or other assets, or entitle the holder to purchase a different number or amount of the foregoing or to purchase any of the foregoing at a different purchase price, then the occurrence of each such event shall be deemed to be the date of issuance and record date with respect to a new right or warrant (and a termination or expiration of the existing right or warrant without exercise by the holder thereof). In addition, in the event of any distribution (or deemed distribution) of rights or warrants, or any Trigger Event or other event (of the type described in the preceding sentence) with respect thereto, that resulted in an adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Section 11.7(d)):
Trigger Event
 
     (1) in the case of any such rights or warrants which shall all have been redeemed or repurchased without exercise by any holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted upon such final redemption or repurchase to give effect to such distribution or Trigger Event, as the case may be, as though it were a cash distribution, equal to the per share redemption or repurchase price received by a holder of shares of Common Stock with respect to such rights or warrants (assuming such holder had retained such rights or warrants), made to all holders of shares of Common Stock as of the date of such redemption or repurchase; and
          (2) in the case of such rights or warrants which shall have expired or been terminated without exercise, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted as if such rights and warrants had never been issued.
     For purposes of this Section 11.7(c), any dividend or distribution that includes cash, evidences of indebtedness or other assets and shares of Common Stock or rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock shall be deemed instead to be (1) a dividend or distribution of the evidences of indebtedness, cash or assets other than such shares of Common Stock or such rights or warrants (making any Conversion Rate increase required by this Section 11.7(c)) immediately followed by (2) a dividend or distribution of such shares of Common Stock or such rights or warrants (making any further Conversion Rate increase required by Section 11.7(a) or 11.7(b)), except (A) the Reference Date of such dividend or distribution as defined in this Section 11.7(c) shall be substituted as (a) "the record date in the case of a dividend or other distribution," (b) "the record date for the determination of holders entitled to receive such rights or warrants," and (c) "the date fixed for such determination" within the meaning of Sections 11.7(a) and 11.7(b), and (B) any shares of Common Stock included in such dividend or distribution shall not be deemed outstanding for purposes of computing any adjustment of the Conversion Rate in Section 11.7(a).
     (d) In case the Company shall, by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all holders of its Common Stock, cash (excluding any cash (1) that is distributed as part of a distribution referred to in Section 11.7(c), and (2) distributed as part of any quarterly cash dividend on Common Stock in any quarter to the extent that such quarterly cash dividend per share of Common Stock does not exceed $0.330 (the ""), then and in each such case, immediately after the close of business on such date of payment, the Conversion Rate shall be increased so that the same shall equal the price determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the close of business on such record date by a fraction:
current dividend amount
     (i) the numerator of which shall be equal to the Current Market Price on such record date, and
     (ii) the denominator of which shall be equal to the Current Market Price on the record date less an amount equal to the amount of the cash distributed (and not excluded as provided above) applicable to one share of Common Stock.
     The current dividend amount is subject to adjustment on a basis inversely proportional to the Conversion Rate, provided that no adjustment will be made to the current dividend amount in
 
respect of any cash dividend or other distribution that results in an adjustment to the Conversion Rate pursuant to this Section 11.7(d).
     If an adjustment is required to be made under this Section 11.7(d) as a result of a distribution that is a quarterly dividend, the adjustment shall be based upon the amount by which the distribution exceeds the amount of the quarterly cash dividend permitted to be excluded pursuant to this Section 11.7(d). If an adjustment is required to be made under this Section 11.7(d) as a result of a distribution that is not a quarterly dividend, the adjustment shall be based upon the full amount of the distribution.
     In the event that such dividend or distribution is not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
     (e) In case the Company or any of its Subsidiaries pays the Holder of the Common Stock in respect of a tender offer or exchange offer by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries for shares of Common Stock to the extent that the cash and fair market value of any other consideration included in the payment per share of Common Stock exceeds the Closing Sale Price per share of Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the last date on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender offer or exchange offer (the ""), then, and in each such case, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted so that the same shall equal the price determined by multiplying the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the close of business on the date of the Expiration Time by a fraction:
Expiration Time
     (i) the numerator of which shall be the sum of (x) the fair market value (determined as aforesaid) of the aggregate consideration payable to stockholders based on the acceptance (up to any maximum specified in the terms of the tender offer or exchange offer) of all shares validly tendered or exchanged and not withdrawn as of the Expiration Time (the shares deemed so accepted, up to any such maximum, being referred to as the "") and (y) the product of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding (less any Purchased Shares) at the Expiration Time and the closing price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the Expiration Time, and
Purchased Shares
     (ii) the denominator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding (including any tendered or exchanged shares) at the Expiration Time multiplied by the closing price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the Expiration Time.
Such increase (if any) shall become effective immediately prior to the opening of business on the day following the Expiration Time. In the event that the Company is obligated to purchase shares pursuant to any such tender offer or exchange offer, but the Company is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchases or all such purchases are rescinded, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate which would then be in effect if such tender offer or exchange offer had not been made.
     (f) The Company may make such increases in the Conversion Rate, in addition to those required by Subsections (a) through (e): (i) in the event of a taxable distribution to Holders of
 
Common Stock that results in an adjustment of the Conversion Rate, or (ii) if the Board of Directors has made a determination that such increase would be in the best interest of the Company. Whenever the Conversion Rate is increased pursuant to the preceding sentence, the Company shall mail to Holders of record a notice of the increase at least fifteen days prior to the date the increased Conversion Rate takes effect, and such notice shall state the increased Conversion Rate and the period it shall be in effect.
     (g) Anything in this Section 11.7 to the contrary notwithstanding, no adjustment of the Conversion Rate will be made upon: (a) the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any present or future plan providing for the reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on securities of the Company and the investment of additional optional amounts in shares of Common Stock under any such plan, or (b) the issuance of any shares of Common Stock or options or rights pursuant to any present or future employee benefit plan or program, or (c) the issuance of any shares of Common Stock pursuant to any option, warrant, right or any exercisable, exchangeable or convertible security outstanding as of the date on which the Securities are first issued, or (d) the issuance of rights under any shareholder rights plan, or (e) a change in the par value or a change to no par value of the Common Stock. To the extent the Securities become convertible into cash, no adjustments need be made thereafter as to the cash and interest will not accrue on the cash.
     (h) No adjustment in the Conversion Rate shall be required unless such adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least 1% in the Conversion Rate; , , that any adjustments which by reason of this Section 11.7(h) are not required to be made shall be carried forward, regardless of whether the aggregate adjustment is less than 1% (a) annually on the anniversary of the first date of issue of the Securities and otherwise (b)(1) five Business Days prior to the maturity of the Securities (whether at Stated Maturity or otherwise) or (2) five Business Days prior to the Redemption Date, Purchase Date or Change in Control Purchase Date, unless such adjustment has already been made. The adjusted Conversion Rate will be rounded to four decimal places.
provided
however
     (i) Except as described in the provisions above, the Conversion Rate will not be adjusted for any issuance by the Company of Common Stock or convertible or exchangeable Securities or rights to purchase the Common Stock or convertible or exchangeable securities.
     (j) Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, in no event shall the Conversion Rate as adjusted pursuant to this Section 11.7 exceed 30.3030 shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, other than on account of proportional adjustments to the Conversion Rate in the manner set forth in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this Section 11.7.
     Section 11.8 The Company shall be entitled to make such adjustments in the Conversion Rate, in addition to those required by Section 11.7, as in its discretion it shall determine to be advisable in order that any stock dividends, subdivisions of shares, distributions of rights to purchase stock or securities or distributions of securities convertible into or exchangeable for stock hereafter made by the Company to its stockholders shall not be taxable.
Adjustment for Tax Purposes.
 
     Section 11.9 Whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted, the Company shall promptly mail to Holders a notice of the adjustment and file with the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the adjusted Conversion Rate and briefly stating the facts requiring the adjustment and the manner of computing it.
Notice of Adjustment.
     Section 11.10 . In the event that:
Notice of Certain Transactions
     (1) the Company takes any action which would require an adjustment in the Conversion Rate;
     (2) the Company takes any action that requires a supplemental indenture pursuant to Section 11.11; or
     (3) there is a dissolution or liquidation of the Company;
the Company shall mail to Holders and file with the Trustee a notice stating the proposed record or effective date, as the case may be. The Company shall mail the notice at least fifteen days before such date. Failure to mail such notice or any defect therein shall not affect the validity of any transaction referred to in clause (1), (2) or (3) of this Section 11.10.
     Section 11.11 If any of the following shall occur, namely: (a) any reclassification or change of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities (other than a change in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value, or as a result of a subdivision or combination); (b) any consolidation or merger in which the Company is a party consolidating with another entity or merging with or into another entity, other than a merger in which the Company is the continuing corporation and which does not result in any reclassification of, or change (other than a change in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value, or as a result of a subdivision or combination) in, outstanding shares of Common Stock; (c) any sale or conveyance of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Company to any Person, (other than any sale or conveyance of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company in a transaction in which the holders of Common Stock immediately prior to such transaction do not receive securities, cash or other assets of the Company or any other Person) or (d) or any statutory share exchange, then the Company, or such successor, purchaser or transferee, as the case may be, shall, as a condition precedent to such reclassification, change, consolidation, merger, sale, conveyance or share exchange, execute and deliver to the Trustee a supplemental indenture providing that the Holder of each Security may convert it into the kind and amount of securities, cash or other assets which such Holder would have received immediately after the reclassification, change, consolidation, merger, sale, conveyance, or share exchange if such Holder had converted the Security solely into Common Stock, based on the applicable Conversion Rate, immediately before the effective date of the transaction, assuming (to the extent applicable) that such Holder (i) was not a constituent Person or an Affiliate of a constituent Person to such transaction; and (ii) assuming such Holder received for its Common Stock proportionally the kind or amount of securities, cash or other property receivable in such transaction by all holders of Common Stock in the aggregate. The supplemental indenture shall provide for adjustments that shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practical to the adjustments provided for in this Article XI and shall provide that Sections 11.1
Effect of Reclassification, Consolidation, Merger or Sale on Conversion Privilege.
 
and 11.2 shall continue to apply following any such transaction. If, in the case of any such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance, the stock or other securities and property (including cash) receivable thereupon by a holder of Common Stock include shares of stock or other securities and property of a Person other than the successor, purchaser or transferee, as the case may be, in such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance, then such supplemental indenture shall also be executed by such other Person and shall contain such additional provisions to protect the interests of the Holders of the Securities as the Board of Directors shall reasonably consider necessary by reason of the foregoing. The successor Company shall mail to Holders a notice briefly describing the supplemental indenture.
     If this Section applies, neither Section 11.7(a) nor 11.7(b) applies.
     Section 11.12 The Trustee shall have no duty to determine when an adjustment under this Article should be made, how it should be made or what such adjustment should be, but may accept as conclusive evidence of that fact or the correctness of any such adjustment, and shall be protected in relying upon, an Officers' Certificate including the Officers' Certificate with respect thereto which the Company is obligated to file with the Trustee pursuant to Section 11.7. The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or value of any securities or assets issued upon conversion of Securities, and the Trustee shall not be responsible for the Company's failure to comply with any provisions of this Article.
Trustee's Disclaimer.
     The Trustee shall not be under any responsibility to determine the correctness of any provisions contained in any supplemental indenture executed pursuant to Section 11.11, but may accept as conclusive evidence of the correctness thereof, and shall be fully protected in relying upon, the Officers' Certificate with respect thereto which the Company is obligated to file with the Trustee pursuant to Section 11.7.
     Section 11.13 Each share of Common Stock issued upon conversion of Securities, if any, pursuant to this Article XI shall be entitled to receive the appropriate number of Common Stock or preferred stock purchase rights, as the case may be (the ""), if any, that shares of Common Stock are entitled to receive and the certificates representing the Common Stock, if any, issued upon such conversion shall bear such legends, if any, in each case as may be provided by the terms of any shareholder rights agreement adopted by the Company, as the same may be amended from time to time (in each case, a ""). Provided that such Rights Agreement requires that each share of Common Stock, if any, issued upon conversion of Securities be entitled to receive such Rights, then, notwithstanding anything else to the contrary in this Article XI, there shall not be any adjustment to the conversion privilege or Conversion Rate as a result of the issuance of Rights, the distribution of separate certificates representing the Rights, or the termination or invalidation of such Rights.
Rights Issued in Respect of Common Stock Issued upon Conversion.
Rights
Rights Agreement
     Section 11.14 . Any determination that the Company or the Board of Directors must make pursuant to Section 11.2, 11.3, 11.7, 11.8 or 11.11 shall be conclusive.
Company Determination Final
 
     Section 12.1 . Repayment of Securities before their Stated Maturity at the option of Holders thereof shall be made in accordance with the terms of such Securities and in accordance with this Article. The Company shall be required to purchase Securities in accordance with this Article XII.
Applicability of Article
     Securities shall be purchased by the Company for cash at a purchase price equal to 100% of the Accreted Principal Amount thereof (the "") plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, such Purchase Date, if any, on September 20, 2007, 2008, 2011, 2016, 2021, 2026 and 2031, or if such day is not a Business Day, on the immediate succeeding Business Day, (each, a ""), at the option of the Holder thereof, upon:
Purchase Price
Purchase Date
     (1) delivery to the Paying Agent by the Holder of a written notice of purchase (a "") at any time from the opening of business on the date that is 21 Business Days prior to a Purchase Date until the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding such Purchase Date stating:
Purchase Notice
          (A) if a certificated Security has been issued, the certificate number of the Security which the Holder will deliver to be purchased or if not, such information as may be required under applicable procedures of the Depositary,
          (B) the portion of the Original Principal Amount of the Security which the Holder will deliver to be purchased, which portion must be an integral multiple of $1,000, and
          (C) that such Security shall be purchased as of the Purchase Date pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in paragraph 9 of the Form of Reverse Side of Security and in this Indenture, and
     (2) delivery of such Security to the Paying Agent prior to, on or after the Purchase Date (together with all necessary endorsements) at the offices of the Paying Agent, such delivery being a condition to receipt by the Holder of the Purchase Price therefor; , , that such Purchase Price shall be so paid pursuant to this Article only if the Security so delivered to the Paying Agent shall conform in all respects to the description thereof in the related Purchase Notice.
provided
however
     The Company shall purchase from the Holder thereof, pursuant to this Article, a portion of the Original Principal Amount in an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to the purchase of all of a Security also apply to the purchase of such portion of such Security.
     Any purchase by the Company contemplated pursuant to the provisions of this Article shall be consummated by the delivery of the Purchase Price to be received by the Holder promptly following the later of the Purchase Date and the time of delivery of the Security.
 
     Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Holder delivering to the Paying Agent the Purchase Notice contemplated by this Section 12.1 shall have the right to withdraw such Purchase Notice at any time prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Purchase Date by delivery of a written notice of withdrawal to the Paying Agent in accordance with Section 12.3.
     The Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Company of the receipt by it of any Purchase Notice or written notice of withdrawal therefrom.
     The Company may, at its option, specify additional dates on which Holders will have the right to require it to purchase Securities upon written notice to the Trustee and the Holders. Such notice shall specify the additional dates upon which the Company shall be required to purchase the Securities at the option of the Holders and shall be delivered to the Trustee and the Holders no less than 25 Business Days prior to the earliest Purchase Date specified in such notice.
     Section 12.2 . The Company shall send notices to the Holders (and to Beneficial Owners as required by applicable law) at their addresses shown in the Security Register not less than 21 Business Days prior to each Purchase Date setting forth such Purchase Date and the procedures that a Holder must follow in order to exercise its purchase right (the ""). The Company shall also deliver a copy of such Company Notice to the Trustee and any Paying Agent.
Notice of Purchase Date
Company Notice
     If any of the Notes is in the form of a Global Note, then the Company shall modify such Company Notice to the extent necessary to accord with the procedures of the Depositary applicable to the repurchase of Global Notes.
     At the Company's request, made at least one Business Day prior to the date upon which such notice is to be mailed, and at the Company's expense, the Paying Agent shall give the Company Notice in the Company's name to the Holders; , that, in all cases, the text of the Company Notice shall be prepared by the Company.
provided
however,
     Section 12.3 Upon receipt by the Paying Agent of the Purchase Notice specified in Section 12.1, the Holder of the Security in respect of which such Purchase Notice was given shall (unless such Purchase Notice is withdrawn as specified in the following two paragraphs) thereafter be entitled to receive solely the Purchase Price with respect to such Security. Such Purchase Price shall be paid to such Holder, subject to receipt of funds by the Paying Agent, promptly following the later of (x) the Purchase Date with respect to such Security (provided the conditions in Section 12.1 have been satisfied) and (y) the time of delivery of such Security to the Paying Agent by the Holder thereof in the manner required by Section 12.1. Securities in respect of which a Purchase Notice has been given by the Holder thereof may not be converted pursuant to Article XI hereof on or after the date of the delivery of such Purchase Notice unless such Purchase Notice has first been validly withdrawn as specified in the following two paragraphs.
Effect of Purchase Notice.
     A Purchase Notice may be withdrawn by means of a written notice of withdrawal delivered to the office of the Paying Agent in accordance with the Purchase Notice at any time
 
prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Purchase Date specifying:
(1) if certificated Securities have been issued, the certificate number of the Security in respect of which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted, or if not, such information as may be required under appropriate procedures of the Depositary;
(2) the Original Principal Amount of the Security with respect to which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted; and
(3) the Original Principal Amount, if any, of such Security which remains subject to the original Purchase Notice and which has been or will be delivered for purchase by the Company.
     There shall be no purchase of any Securities pursuant to this Article if there has occurred (prior to, on or after, as the case may be, the giving, by the Holders of such Securities, of the required Purchase Notice) and is continuing an Event of Default (other than a default in the payment of the Purchase Price with respect to such Securities). The Paying Agent will promptly return to the respective Holders thereof any Securities (x) with respect to which a Purchase Notice has been withdrawn in compliance with this Indenture, or (y) held by it during the continuance of an Event of Default (other than a default in the payment of the Purchase Price with respect to such Securities) in which case, upon such return, the Purchase Notice with respect thereto shall be deemed to have been withdrawn.
     Section 12.4 Prior to 11:00 A.M., New York City time on the Purchase Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with the Paying Agent an amount of money (in immediately available funds if deposited on such Business Day), sufficient to pay the aggregate Purchase Price of all of the Securities or portions thereof which are to be purchased as of the Purchase Date. The manner in which the deposit required by this Section 12.4 is made by the Company shall be at the option of the Company, , , that such deposit shall be made in a manner such that the Trustee or a Paying Agent shall have immediately available funds on the Purchase Date.
Deposit of Purchase Price.
provided
however
     If a Paying Agent holds, in accordance with the terms hereof, money sufficient to pay the Purchase Price of any Security for which a Purchase Notice has been tendered and not withdrawn in accordance with this Indenture on the Business Day following the Purchase Date, then, immediately after the Purchase Date, such Security will cease to be outstanding, interest, if any, will cease to accrue and the rights of the Holder in respect thereof shall terminate (other than the right to receive the Purchase Price as aforesaid).
     Section 12.5 Any Security which is to be purchased only in part shall be surrendered at the office of the Paying Agent (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company or the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security, without service charge except for any taxes to be paid
Securities Purchased in Part.
 
by the Holder in the event a Security is registered under a new name, a new Security or Securities, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in aggregate Original Principal Amount equal to, and in exchange for, the portion of the Original Principal Amount of the Security so surrendered which is not purchased.
     Section 12.6 In connection with any offer to purchase or purchase of Securities under this Article (provided that such offer or purchase constitutes an "issuer tender offer" for purposes of Rule 13e-4 (which term, as used herein, includes any successor provision thereto) under the Exchange Act at the time of such offer or purchase), the Company shall (i) comply with Rule 13e-4 under the Exchange Act, (ii) file the related Schedule TO (or any successor schedule, form or report), if required, under the Exchange Act, and (iii) otherwise comply with all applicable Federal and state securities laws so as to permit the rights and obligations under this Article to be exercised in the time and in the manner specified in this Article.
Compliance with Securities Laws upon Purchase of Securities.
     Section 12.7 The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company any cash that remains unclaimed for two years, subject to applicable unclaimed property law, together with interest, if any, thereon held by them for the payment of the Purchase Price; , , that to the extent that the aggregate amount of cash deposited by the Company pursuant to Section 12.4 exceeds the aggregate Purchase Price of the Securities or portions thereof which the Company is obligated to purchase as of the Purchase Date, then promptly after the Business Day following the Purchase Date, the Trustee shall return any such excess to the Company together with interest, if any, thereon. Thereafter, any Holder entitled to payment must look to the Company for payment as general creditors, unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another Person.
Repayment to the Company.
provided
however
     Section 13.1 (a) If at any time that Securities remain outstanding there shall occur a Change in Control, Securities shall be purchased by the Company in integral multiples of $1,000 Original Principal Amount at the option of the Holders thereof as of the date specified by the Company that is between 20 and 35 days following notice by the Company of the occurrence of the Change in Control pursuant to clause (b) below (the "") subject to satisfaction by or on behalf of any Holder of the requirements set forth in subsection (c) of this Section 13.1. The purchase price of such Securities (the "") shall be equal to 100% of the Accreted Principal Amount of the Securities to be purchased plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Change in Control Purchase Date, if any.
Right to Require Purchase.
Change in Control Purchase Date
Change in Control Purchase Price
     A "" shall be deemed to have occurred at such time as either of the following events shall occur:
Change in Control
     (1) there shall be consummated any consolidation or merger of the Company pursuant to which the Common Stock would be converted into cash, securities or other
 
property, in each case other than a consolidation or merger of the Company in which the holders of the Common Stock immediately prior to the consolidation or merger have, directly or indirectly, at least a majority of the total voting power of all classes of Capital Stock of the continuing or surviving corporation immediately after such consolidation or merger; or
     (2) there is a report filed on Schedule 13D or 14D-1 (or any successor schedule, form or report) pursuant to the Exchange Act, disclosing that any Person, including such Person's Affiliates or Associates (for the purposes of this Section 13.1 only, as the term "Person" is used in Section 13(d)(3) or Section 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) has become the beneficial owner (as the term "" is defined under Rule 13d-3 or any successor rule or regulation promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 50% or more of the voting power of the Common Stock or other Capital Stock into which the Common Stock is reclassified or changed; , , that a Person shall not be deemed beneficial owner of, or to own beneficially, (A) any securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by or on behalf of such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates until such tendered securities are accepted for purchase or exchange thereunder, or (B) any securities if such beneficial ownership (i) arises solely as a result of a revocable proxy delivered in response to a proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to the applicable rules and regulations under the Exchange Act, and (ii) is not also then reportable on Schedule 13D (or any successor schedule) under the Exchange Act.
beneficial owner
provided
however
     Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 13.1, a Change in Control shall not be deemed to have occurred by virtue of the Company, any Subsidiary, any employee stock ownership plan or any other employee benefit plan of the Company or any Subsidiary, or any Person holding Common Stock for or pursuant to the terms of any such employee benefit plan, filing or becoming obligated to file a report under or in response to Schedule 13D or Schedule TO (or any successor schedule, form or report) under the Exchange Act disclosing beneficial ownership by it of shares of Common Stock, whether in excess of 50% or otherwise.
     "" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, as in effect on the date hereof.
Associate
     (b) Within five Business Days after the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Company shall mail a written notice (upon which the Trustee shall have no liability in relying) of the Change in Control to the Trustee and to each Holder. The notice shall include the form of a Change in Control Purchase Notice to be completed by the Holder and shall state:
     (1) the date of such Change in Control and, briefly, the events causing such Change in Control;
     (2) the date by which the Change in Control Purchase Notice pursuant to this Section 13.1 must be given;
     (3) the Change in Control Purchase Date;
 
     (4) the Change in Control Purchase Price that will be accrued and payable with respect to the Securities as of the Change in Control Purchase Date;
     (5) briefly, the conversion rights of the Securities;
     (6) the name and address of each Paying Agent and Conversion Agent;
     (7) the Conversion Rate then in effect and any expected adjustments thereto;
     (8) that Securities as to which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been given may be converted into cash and Common Stock, if any, pursuant to Article XI only to the extent that the Change in Control Purchase Notice has been withdrawn in accordance with the terms of this Indenture;
     (9) the procedures that the Holder must follow to exercise rights under this Section 13.1;
     (10) the procedures for withdrawing a Change in Control Purchase Notice, including a form of notice of withdrawal;
     (11) that the Holder must satisfy the requirements set forth in the Securities in order to convert the Securities; and
     (12) the last date on which the purchase right may be exercised.
     If any of the Securities is in the form of a Global Security, then the Company shall modify such notice to the extent necessary to accord with the procedures of the Depositary applicable to the purchase of Global Securities.
     (c) A Holder may exercise its rights specified in subsection (a) of this Section 13.1 upon delivery of a written notice (which shall be in substantially the form included as an attachment to the Securities and which may be delivered by letter, overnight courier, hand delivery, facsimile transmission or in any other written form and, in the case of Global Securities, may be delivered electronically or by other means in accordance with the Depositary's customary procedures) of the exercise of such rights (a "") to any Paying Agent at any time prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Change in Control Purchase Date.
Change in Control Purchase Notice
     The delivery of such Security to any Paying Agent (together with all necessary endorsements) at the office of such Paying Agent shall be a condition to the receipt by the Holder of the Change in Control Purchase Price.
     The Company shall purchase from the Holder thereof, pursuant to this Section 13.1, a portion of a Security if the Original Principal Amount of such portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to the purchase of all of a Security pursuant to Sections 13.1 through 13.6 also apply to the purchase of such portion of such Security.
 
     Any purchase by the Company contemplated pursuant to the provisions of this Section 13.1 shall be consummated by the delivery of the consideration to be received by the Holder promptly following the later of the Change in Control Purchase Date and the time of delivery of the Security to the Paying Agent in accordance with this Section 13.1.
     Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Holder delivering to a Paying Agent the Change in Control Purchase Notice contemplated by this subsection (c) shall have the right to withdraw such Change in Control Purchase Notice in whole or as to a portion thereof that is an Original Principal Amount of $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof at any time prior to the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Change in Control Purchase Date by delivery of a written notice of withdrawal to the Paying Agent in accordance with Section 13.2.
     A Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Company of the receipt by it of any Change in Control Purchase Notice or written withdrawal thereof.
     Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, in the case of Global Securities, any Change in Control Purchase Notice may be delivered or withdrawn and such Securities may be surrendered or delivered for purchase in accordance with the applicable procedures of the Depositary as in effect from time to time.
     Section 13.2 Upon receipt by any Paying Agent of the Change in Control Purchase Notice specified in Section 13.1(c), the Holder of the Security in respect of which such Change in Control Purchase Notice was given shall (unless such Change in Control Purchase Notice is withdrawn as specified below) thereafter be entitled to receive the Change in Control Purchase Price with respect to such Security. Such Change in Control Purchase Price shall be paid to such Holder promptly following the later of (a) the Change in Control Purchase Date with respect to such Security (provided the conditions in Section 13.1(c) have been satisfied) and (b) the time of delivery of such Security to a Paying Agent by the Holder thereof in the manner required by Section 13.1(c). Securities in respect of which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been given by the Holder thereof may not be converted into Common Stock on or after the date of the delivery of such Change in Control Purchase Notice unless such Change in Control Purchase Notice has first been validly withdrawn as specified in the following paragraph.
Effect of Change in Control Purchase Notice.
     A Change in Control Purchase Notice may be withdrawn by means of a written notice of withdrawal delivered to the office of the Paying Agent in accordance with the Change in Control Purchase Notice at any time prior to the close of business on the applicable Change in Control Purchase Date specifying:
     (1) if a certificated Security has been issued, the certificate number of the Securities in respect of which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted, or, if no certificated Security has been issued, such information as required by the Depositary;
     (2) the Original Principal Amount, in integral multiples of $1,000, of the Securities with respect to which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted; and
 
     (3) the Original Principal Amount, if any, of such Securities which remain subject to the original Change in Control Purchase Notice and which has been or will be delivered for purchase by the Company.
     There shall be no purchase of any Securities pursuant to this Article if there has occurred (prior to, on or after, as the case may be, the giving, by the Holders of such Securities, of the required Change in Control Purchase Notice) and is continuing an Event of Default (other than a default in the payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price with respect to such Securities). The Paying Agent will promptly return to the respective Holders thereof any Securities (x) with respect to which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been withdrawn in compliance with this Indenture, or (y) held by it during the continuance of an Event of Default (other than a default in the payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price with respect to such Securities) in which case, upon either such return, the Change in Control Purchase Notice with respect thereto shall be deemed to have been withdrawn.
     Section 13.3 On or before 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the Change in Control Purchase Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (other than the Company or an Affiliate of the Company) an amount of money (in immediately available funds if deposited on such Business Day) sufficient to pay the aggregate Change in Control Purchase Price of all the Securities or portions thereof that are to be purchased as of such Change in Control Purchase Date. The manner in which the deposit required by this Section 13.3 is made by the Company shall be at the option of the Company, , , that such deposit shall be made in a manner such that the Trustee or a Paying Agent shall have immediately available funds on the Change in Control Purchase Date.
Deposit of Change in Control Purchase Price.
provided
however
     If a Paying Agent holds, in accordance with the terms hereof, money sufficient to pay the Change in Control Purchase Price of any Security for which a Change in Control Purchase Notice has been tendered and not withdrawn in accordance with this Indenture on the Business Day following the Change in Control Purchase Date then, immediately following the Change in Control Purchase Date, such Security will cease to be outstanding, interest will cease to accrue and the rights of the Holder in respect thereof shall terminate (other than the right to receive the interest thereon). The Company shall publicly announce the Accreted Principal Amount of Securities purchased as a result of such Change in Control on or as soon as practicable after the Change in Control Purchase Date.
     Section 13.4 Any Security that is to be purchased only in part shall be surrendered at the office of a Paying Agent and promptly after the Change in Control Purchase Date the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security, without service charge (other than amounts to be paid in respect of applicable transfer taxes), a new Security or Securities, of such authorized denomination or denominations in integral multiples of $1,000 as may be requested by such Holder, in aggregate Original Principal Amount equal to, and in exchange for, the portion of the Original Principal Amount of the Security so surrendered that is not purchased.
Securities Purchased in Part.
     Section 13.5 In connection with any offer to purchase or purchase of Securities under this Article (provided that
Compliance with Securities Laws upon Purchase of Securities.
 
such offer or purchase constitutes an "issuer tender offer" for purposes of Rule 13e-4 (which term, as used herein, includes any successor provision thereto) under the Exchange Act at the time of such offer or purchase), the Company shall (i) comply with Rule 13e-4 under the Exchange Act, (ii) file the related Schedule TO (or any successor schedule, form or report), if required, under the Exchange Act, and (iii) otherwise comply with all applicable Federal and state securities laws so as to permit the rights and obligations under this Article XIII to be exercised in the time and in the manner specified in this Article XIII.
     Section 13.6 The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company any cash that remains unclaimed for two years, subject to applicable unclaimed property law, together with interest, if any, thereon held by them for the payment of the Change in Control Purchase Price; , , that, to the extent the aggregate amount of cash deposited by the Company pursuant to Section 13.3 exceeds the aggregate Change in Control Purchase Price of the Securities or portions thereof which the Company is obligated to purchase as of the Change in Control Purchase Date, then on the Business Day following the Purchase Date, the Trustee shall return any such excess to the Company together with interest, if any, thereon. Thereafter, any Holder entitled to payment must look to the Company for payment as a general creditor, unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another Person.
Repayment to the Company.
provided
however
     Section 14.1 . No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of this Indenture, or of any Security, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof, shall be had against any incorporator, shareholder, officer, director or employee, in such capacity, past, present or future, of the Company or of any successor corporation, either directly or through the Company, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that this Indenture and the obligations issued hereunder are solely corporate obligations of the Company, and that no such personal liability whatever shall attach to, or is or shall be incurred by, the incorporators, shareholders, officers, directors or employees, in such capacity, of the Company or of any successor corporation, or any of them, as a result of the creation of the indebtedness hereby authorized, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities or implied therefrom; and that any and all such personal liability, either at common law or in equity or by constitution or statute, of, and any and all such rights and claims against, every such incorporator, shareholder, officer, director or employee, in such capacity, as a result of the creation of the indebtedness hereby authorized, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities or implied therefrom, are hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as a consideration for, the execution of this Indenture and the issue of such Securities.
Exemption from Individual Liability
 
     Section 15.1 . All the covenants, stipulations, promises and agreements in this Indenture contained by or on behalf of the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
Successors and Assigns of Company Bound by Indenture
     Section 15.2 . Any act or proceeding by any provision of this Indenture authorized or required to be done or performed by any board, committee or officer of the Company shall and may be done and performed with like force and effect by the like board, committee or officer of any corporation that shall at that time be the successor of the Company.
Acts of Board, Committee or Officer of Successor Corporation Valid
     Section 15.3 . Any notice or demand which by any provision of this Indenture is required or permitted to be given or served by the Trustee or by the Holders to or on the Company may be given or served by being deposited postage prepaid in a post office letter box in the United States addressed (until another address is filed by the Company with the Trustee), as follows: U.S. Bancorp, 800 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 55402, Attention: Corporate Secretary. Any notice, direction, request or demand by the Company or by any Holder to or upon the Trustee may be given or made, for all purposes, by being deposited postage prepaid in a post office letter box in the United States addressed to the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee. Any notice required or permitted to be mailed to a Holder by the Company or the Trustee pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture shall be deemed to be properly mailed by being deposited postage prepaid in a post office letter box in the United States addressed to such Holder at the address of such Holder as shown on the Security Register. In any case, where notice to Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders.
Required Notices or Demands
     Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
     In the event that, by reason of the suspension of or irregularities in regular mail service, it shall be impractical to mail notice of any event to Holders when such notice is required to be given pursuant to any provision of this Indenture, then any manner of giving such notice as shall be satisfactory to the Trustee shall be deemed to be a sufficient giving of such notice.
     Section 15.4 . THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THIS INDENTURE AND THE SECURITIES.
Governing Law
     Section 15.5 . This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed an original; and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Indenture May Be Executed in Counterparts
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized, have executed this Indenture on behalf of the respective parties hereto as of the date first above written.
 
Annex A
     FOR PURPOSES OF SECTIONS 1272, 1273 AND 1275 OF THE UNITED STATES INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986, AS AMENDED, THIS SECURITY IS ISSUED WITH AN INDETERMINATE AMOUNT OF ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT FOR UNITED STATES FEDERAL INCOME TAX PURPOSES. THE ISSUE DATE IS SEPTEMBER 20, 2006, THE ISSUE PRICE IS $1,000 PER GLOBAL SECURITY, THE YIELD TO MATURITY IS INDETERMINATE, AND ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT EFFECTIVELY ACCRUES AT A RATE OF THREE-MONTH LIBOR MINUS 1.75% PER ANNUM.
     UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
     TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN ARTICLE TWO OF THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF.
     THIS SECURITY AND ANY SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS SECURITY, ANY SHARES OF COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION OF THIS SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN OR THEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, REGISTRATION.
     THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, AGREES TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SECURITY, PRIOR TO THE DATE (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") WHICH IS TWO YEARS AFTER THE LAST DATE ON WHICH ANY SECURITIES WERE ORIGINALLY ISSUED AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE COMPANY OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE COMPANY
 
WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF SUCH SECURITY) ONLY (A) TO THE COMPANY OR ANY SUBSIDIARY OR AFFILIATE THEREOF, (B) FOR SO LONG AS THE SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHICH NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (C) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR (D) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT, SUBJECT TO THE RIGHTS OF THE COMPANY AND THE WITHIN MENTIONED TRUSTEE PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER PURSUANT TO THIS CLAUSE (D) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS SECURITY IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE TRUSTEE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.
     THE FOREGOING LEGEND MAY BE REMOVED FROM THIS SECURITY ON SATISFACTION OF THE CONDITIONS SPECIFIED IN THE INDENTURE.
 
     U.S. BANCORP, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the Accreted Principal Amount of this Security, as specified on the reverse side of this Security, on September 20, 2036.
     This Security shall bear interest as specified on the reverse side of this Security. This Security is convertible as specified on the reverse side of this Security.
     Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
Attest:
The undersigned, as Authenticating Agent, certifies that this is one of the Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
U.S. BANK TRUST NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Authenticating Agent
Dated:
 
     This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "") limited in aggregate Original Principal Amount to $2,500,000,000 (or up to $2,875,000,000 if the Initial Purchaser exercises in full its option to purchase additional Securities pursuant to the Purchase Agreement), issued under an Indenture, dated as of September 20, 2006 (the ""), among the Company, Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee (the "", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and U.S. Bank Trust National Association as Authenticating Agent (as defined in the Indenture), which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined in this Security are used as defined in the Indenture.
Securities
Indenture
Trustee
1. Interest; Calculation of 3-month LIBOR
     This Security will bear interest at the rate per annum equal to 3-month LIBOR, reset quarterly on each LIBOR Reset Date, as defined below, minus 1.75% (initially 3.64%) on the Original Principal Amount from September 20, 2006, or from the most recent date to which interest has been paid as provided for, until September 20, 2031, provided that such yield will never be less than 0% per annum. During each period, interest will be payable quarterly in arrears on March 20, June 20, September 20 and December 20 of each year (each, an "") beginning December 20, 2006. Interest on this Security shall be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed during the related Interest Period (as defined below). Interest payable on this Security on any Interest Payment Date will include interest accrued from, and including, the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly made available for payment on this Security (or September 20, 2006, if no interest has been paid or been duly made available for payment) to, but excluding, such Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date or Purchase Date or Change in Control Purchase Date, as the case may be (an ""). The interest so payable and punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the March 1, June 1, September 1 and December 1, as the case may be, immediately preceding the relevant Interest Payment Date. Any interest which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall forthwith cease to be payable to the registered Holder hereof on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and may be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Company, notice whereof shall be given to the Holders of Securities
Interest Payment Date
Interest Period
 
not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
     "," as determined by the Calculation Agent, means:
3-month LIBOR
     (a) the rate for three-month deposits in United States dollars commencing on the related LIBOR Reset Date, that appears on the Moneyline Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 A.M., London time, on the LIBOR Determination Date; or
     (b) if no rate appears on the particular LIBOR Determination Date on the Moneyline Telerate Page 3750, the rate calculated by the Calculation Agent as the arithmetic mean of at least two offered quotations obtained by the Calculation Agent after requesting the principal London offices of each of four major reference banks in the London interbank market to provide the Calculation Agent with its offered quotation for deposits in United States dollars for the period of three months, commencing on the related LIBOR Reset Date, to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time, on that LIBOR Determination Date and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in United Sates dollars in that market at that time; or
     (c) if fewer than two offered quotations referred to in clause (b) are provided as requested, the rate calculated by the Calculation Agent as the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the particular LIBOR Determination Date by three major banks in The City of New York selected by the Calculation Agent for loans in United States dollars to leading European banks for a period of three months and in a principal amount that is representative for a single transaction in United States dollars in that market at that time; or
     (d) if the banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in clause (c), 3-month LIBOR in effect on the particular LIBOR Determination Date.
     "" means the second London banking day preceding the related LIBOR Reset Date.
LIBOR Determination Date
     "" means the first day of each Interest Period prior to September 21, 2031, and, beginning on September 21, 2031, March 21, June 21, September 21 and December 21 of each year; provided that, if any LIBOR Reset Date would otherwise be a day that is not a Business Day, such LIBOR Reset Date shall be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day, except if such Business Day falls in the next succeeding calendar month, such LIBOR Reset Date will be the immediately preceding Business Day.
LIBOR Reset Date
     "" means a day on which commercial banks are open for business, including dealings in United States dollars, in London.
London banking day
     "" means the display on Moneyline Telerate (or any successor service) on such page (or any other page as may replace such page on such service) for the purpose of displaying the London interbank rates of major banks for United States dollars.
Moneyline Telerate Page 3750
 
2. Principal Accretion
     Beginning on September 21, 2031, this Security shall not bear interest. Instead, on September 20, 2036 (the "") or any earlier Redemption Date, Purchase Date or Change in Control Purchase Date, the Holder will receive the Accreted Principal Amount of this Security on such date, which will be equal to the Original Principal Amount of this Security (as may be revised from time to time to reflect exchanges, redemptions, purchases or conversions of all or any portion of the Original Principal Amount of this Security, by entries on the attached Schedule of Increases and Decreases or otherwise in accordance with the standing instructions and procedures existing between the Depositary and the Registrar of this Security) increased daily by the Variable Yield applied to the Accreted Principal Amount of this Security as of the day immediately preceding the most recent LIBOR Reset Date. The Variable Yield will be reset quarterly on each LIBOR Reset Date to a rate of 3-month LIBOR, minus 1.46% per annum. Regardless of the level of 3-month LIBOR, the Variable Yield will never be less than 0% per annum. The Variable Yield will be calculated using the actual number of days elapsed between the LIBOR Reset Dates divided by 360. The Accreted Principal Amount payable on this Security will include principal accreted from, and including, September 21, 2031 to, but excluding, the Stated Maturity or earlier Redemption Date, Purchase Date or Change in Control Purchase Date, as the case may be.
Stated Maturity
3. Interest on Overdue Amounts
     If the Accreted Principal Amount hereof or any portion of such Accreted Principal Amount is not paid when due (whether upon acceleration pursuant to Section 4.2 of the Indenture, upon the dates set for payment of the Redemption Price, Purchase Price, Change in Control Purchase Price or upon the Stated Maturity of this Security) or if interest due hereon, if any, (or any portion of such interest), is not paid when due, then in each such case the overdue amount shall, to the extent permitted by law, bear interest at the rate of interest payable as set forth in paragraph 1 of this Security, compounded quarterly, which interest shall accrue from the date such overdue amount was originally due to the date payment of such amount, including interest thereon, has been made or duly provided for. All such interest shall be payable as set forth in the Indenture.
4. Method of Payment
     Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company will make payments in respect of Redemption Price, Purchase Price, Change in Control Purchase Price and at Stated Maturity to Holders who surrender Securities to a Paying Agent to collect such payments in respect of the Securities. The Company will pay cash amounts in money of the United States that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. However, the Company may make such cash payments by check payable in such money; provided that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds will be required with respect to principal of and interest, if any, on all Global Securities and all other Securities the Holders of which shall have provided wire transfer instructions to the Company or the Paying Agent. If any Interest Payment Date (other than an Interest Payment Date coinciding with the Stated Maturity
 
or earlier Redemption Date or Purchase Date) falls on a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date will be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day and no interest on such payment will accrue for the period from and after the Interest Payment Date to such next succeeding Business Day, provided that, if such Business Day falls in the next succeeding calendar month, the Interest Payment Date will be the Business Day immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date. If the Stated Maturity, Redemption Date, Purchase Date or Change of Control Purchase Date of this Security falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the required payment of interest, if any, and principal will be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no interest on such payment will accrue for the period from and after the Stated Maturity, Redemption Date, Purchase Date or Change of Control Purchase Date to such next succeeding Business Day.
5. Paying Agent, Calculation Agent, Conversion Agent and Registrar
     U.S. Bank Trust National Association will initially act as Paying Agent, Calculation Agent, Conversion Agent, Authentication Agent and Registrar. The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Calculation Agent, Conversion Agent, Registrar or co-registrar without notice, other than notice to the Trustee, except that the Company will maintain at least one Paying Agent in the State of New York, City of New York, Borough of Manhattan. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates may act as Paying Agent, Calculation Agent, Conversion Agent, Registrar or co-registrar.
6. Indenture
     The terms of the Securities include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as in effect from time to time (the "") (regardless of whether or not the Indenture has been qualified thereunder). The Securities are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of those terms.
TIA
     The Securities are general unsecured obligations of the Company limited to $2,500,000,000 aggregate Original Principal Amount (or up to $2,875,000,000 if the Initial Purchaser exercises in full its option to purchase additional Securities pursuant to the Purchase Agreement). The Indenture does not limit other indebtedness of the Company, secured or unsecured.
7. Redemption at the Option of the Company
     No sinking fund is provided for the Securities. Prior to September 20, 2007, the Securities will not be redeemable at the option of the Company. Beginning on September 20, 2007, the Securities are redeemable in whole, or from time to time in part, for cash at the option of the Company at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the Accreted Principal Amount of the Securities, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the Redemption Date.
     If the Company redeems less than all of the outstanding Securities, the Registrar will select the Securities to be redeemed (i) by lot, (ii) pro rata, or (iii) by another method the Registrar considers fair and appropriate. If the Registrar selects a portion of a Holder's
 
Securities for partial redemption and the Holder converts a portion of the same Securities, the converted portion shall be deemed to be from the portion selected for redemption. Holders of Securities called for redemption may convert their Securities until 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately preceding the Redemption Date.
8. Notice of Redemption
     Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed at the Holder's registered address. If money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of all Securities (or portions thereof) to be redeemed on the Redemption Date is deposited with the Paying Agent prior to or on the Redemption Date, immediately after such Redemption Date interest shall cease to accrue on such Securities or portions thereof. Securities in denominations larger than $1,000 Original Principal Amount may be redeemed in part but only in integral multiples of $1,000 Original Principal Amount.
9. Purchase By the Company at the Option of the Holder
     Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall purchase for cash, at the option of the Holder, all or a portion of the Securities held by such Holder on September 20, 2007, 2008, 2011, 2016, 2021, 2026 and 2031, or, if such day is not a Business Day, on the immediate succeeding Business Day, at a Purchase Price equal to 100% of the Accreted Principal Amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the Purchase Date, upon delivery of a Purchase Notice containing the information set forth in the Indenture, at any time from the opening of business on the date that is 21 Business Days prior to such Purchase Date until the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding such Purchase Date and upon delivery of the Securities to the Paying Agent by the Holder as set forth in the Indenture.
     At the option of the Holder and subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall purchase all or a portion of the Securities held by such Holder as of the date specified by the Company that is between 20 and 35 days following the delivery by the Company of the notice of a Change in Control for a Change in Control Purchase Price equal to 100% of the Accreted Principal Amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the Change in Control Purchase Date.
     Holders have the right to withdraw any Purchase Notice or Change in Control Purchase Notice, as the case may be, by delivering to the Paying Agent a written notice of withdrawal in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture.
     If cash sufficient to pay the Purchase Price or Change in Control Purchase Price, as the case may be, of all Securities or portions thereof to be purchased as of the Purchase Date or the Change in Control Purchase Date, as the case may be, is deposited with the Paying Agent on the Business Day following the Purchase Date or the Change in Control Purchase Date, as the case may be, all interest ceases to accrue on such Securities (or portions thereof) immediately after such Purchase Date or Change in Control Purchase Date, as the case may be, and the Holder
 
thereof shall have no other rights as such (other than the right to receive the Purchase Price or Change in Control Purchase Price, as the case may be, upon surrender of such Security).
10. Conversion
     Subject to the terms of the Indenture, the Holder of a Security may convert the Security into an amount of cash and shares of Common Stock, if any, as set forth in Section 11.1 of the Indenture, subject to the obligation of the Company to settle any such conversion as described in Section 11.2 of the Indenture. A Security in respect of which a Holder has delivered a Purchase Notice or a Change in Control Purchase Notice exercising the option of such Holder to require the Company to purchase such Security may be converted only if such notice of exercise is withdrawn in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
     The Company shall deliver cash or a check in lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock.
     A Holder may convert a portion of a Security if the Original Principal Amount of such portion is $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000. No payment or adjustment shall be made for dividends on the Common Stock except as provided in the Indenture.
     Securities or portions thereof surrendered for conversion during the period from the close of business on any Regular Record Date immediately preceding any Interest Payment Date to the opening of business on such Interest Payment Date shall be accompanied by payment to the Company or its order, in New York Clearing House funds or other funds acceptable to the Company, of an amount equal to the interest payable on such Interest Payment Date on the Original Principal Amount of Securities or portions thereof being surrendered for conversion, unless the Company has specified a Redemption Date or a Change in Control Purchase Date that occurs after a Regular Record Date and on or prior to the Interest Payment Date to which it relates, in which case no such payment shall be required. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, if the Company specifies a Redemption Date that is in the month of September 2007, such payment also shall not be required upon the surrender of Securities for conversion after September 1, 2007 and prior to such Redemption Date.
     To convert a Security, a Holder must (a) complete and manually sign the Conversion Notice set forth below and deliver such notice to a Conversion Agent, (b) surrender the Security to the Conversion Agent, (c) furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents (including any certification that may be required under applicable law) if required by the Conversion Agent, and (d) pay any transfer or similar tax, if required; or, if this is a Global Security, comply with the applicable conversion procedures of the Depositary.
     The Conversion Rate will be adjusted under the Indenture in the event the Company shall, while any of the Securities are outstanding, pay dividends or make distributions on Common Stock payable in Common Stock; subdivide its outstanding shares of Common Stock; combine its outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares; or issue by recapitalization or reclassification of its shares of Common Stock any shares of Capital Stock of the Company; issue rights or warrants to holders of Common Stock entitling them to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock; pay dividends or other distributions to all holders of
 
Common Stock of shares of Capital Stock or evidences of indebtedness or assets; pay dividends or other distributions consisting exclusively of cash to all holders of Common Stock; and purchase shares of Common Stock pursuant to a tender offer or exchange offer, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
11. Denominations; Transfer; Exchange
     The Securities are in fully registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 Original Principal Amount and integral multiples of $1,000. A Holder may transfer or exchange Securities in accordance with the Indenture. The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Registrar need not transfer or exchange any Securities selected for redemption (except, in the case of a Security to be redeemed in part, the portion of the Security not to be redeemed) or any Securities in respect of which a Purchase Notice or Change in Control Purchase Notice has been given and not withdrawn (except, in the case of a Security to be purchased in part, the portion of the Security not to be purchased) or any Securities for a period of 15 days before the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed.
12. Persons Deemed Owners
     The registered Holder of this Security may be treated as the owner of this Security for all purposes.
13. Unclaimed Money or Securities
     The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any money or securities held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Securities that remains unclaimed for two years subject to applicable unclaimed property law. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or securities must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another Person.
14. Amendment; Waiver
     Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, (i) the Indenture or the Securities may be amended with the written consent of the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate Original Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding and (ii) certain Defaults may be waived with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate Original Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding. The Company and the Trustee may amend the Indenture under certain circumstances without the consent of the Holder, as described in the Indenture.
15. Defaults and Remedies
     Under the Indenture, Events of Default include (i) a default in the payment of the Accreted Principal Amount, Redemption Price, Purchase Price or Change in Control Purchase
 
Price with respect to any Security when such payment becomes due and payable; (ii) a default in the payment of any interest, if any, on the Securities, when the same becomes due and payable, for a period of 30 days; (iii) failure by the Company to convert any Securities into cash and, if applicable, shares of Common Stock in the amounts set forth in the Indenture; (iv) failure by the Company to comply with any of its other agreements in the Indenture or the Securities, subject to written notice by the Trustee or by Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate Original Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding, and the Company's failure to cure (or obtain a waiver of) such default within 90 days after receipt by the Company of such notice; and (v) certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency. If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate Original Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding, may declare all the Securities to be due and payable immediately. Certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency are Events of Default that will result in the Securities becoming due and payable immediately upon the occurrence of such Events of Default.
     Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Securities except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may refuse to enforce the Indenture or the Securities unless it receives security or indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in aggregate Original Principal Amount of the Securities at the time outstanding may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders notice of any continuing Default (except a Default in payment of amounts specified in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) above) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interests.
16. Trustee Dealings with the Company
     Subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, the Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.
17. No Recourse Against Others
     A director, officer, employee or stockholder, as such, of the Company shall not have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Securities or the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of or by reason of such obligations or their creation. By accepting a Security, each Holder waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
18. Authentication
     This Security shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee manually signs the Certificate of Authentication on the other side of this Security.
 
19. Abbreviations
     Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TEN ENT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act).
20. GOVERNING LAW
     THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THE INDENTURE AND THIS SECURITY.
The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture.
U.S. BANCORP 800 Nicollet Mall Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402 Telephone No. (612) 303-0799 Facsimile No. (612) 303-7881 Attention: Corporate Secretary
 
To assign this Security, fill in the form below:
I or we assign and transfer this Security to
and irrevocably appoint agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                      
                     
                     
                     
                    
Date:
                    
                    
 
Initial Original Principal Amount: $
 - 
The following increases or decreases in this Global Security have been made:
 
     If you want to elect to have this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 12.1 of the Indenture, check the box:
o
     If you want to elect to have only part of this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 12.1 of the Indenture, state the amount in principal amount (must be an integral multiple of $1,000): $
Date:                      .
                    
Your Signature: *
                    
                    
                    
                    
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Security)
 
To convert this Security, check the box:
o
To convert only part of this Security, state the Original Principal Amount to be converted (which must be $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000): $
                    
                    
If you want the stock certificate made out in another Person's name, fill in the form below:
 
      
 
(Insert other Person's soc. sec. or tax ID no.)
 
      
 
(Print or type other Person's name, address and zip code)
Your Signature: *
                     
                     
                      
                     
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Security)
 
 
If you want to elect to have this Security purchased, in whole or in part, by the Company pursuant to Section 13.1 of the Indenture, check the following box:
o
If you want to have only part of this Security purchased by the Company, state the Original Principal Amount you want to be purchased (must be $1,000 or a multiple of $1,000): $
                    
                    
                    
If this notice is attached to a certificated Security, the Security certificate numbers:
 
You agree by the presentation of this notice to provide any further information as may be required under applicable procedures of The Depository Trust Company.
Your Signature: *
                    
                    
                    
                     
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of this Security)
 

 
Exhibit 4.2
 
          THIS REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT (this "") is made and entered into as of September 20, 2006, by and between U.S. BANCORP, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC. (the "").
Agreement
Company
Initial Purchaser
          This Agreement is made pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, dated September 14, 2006 (the ""), between the Company, as issuer of the Floating Rate Convertible Senior Debentures due 2036 (the ""), and the Initial Purchaser, which provides for, among other things, the sale by the Company to the Initial Purchaser of the aggregate principal amount of Debentures specified therein. In order to induce the Initial Purchaser to enter into the Purchase Agreement, the Company has agreed to provide the registration rights set forth in this Agreement. The execution of this Agreement is a condition to the closing under the Purchase Agreement.
Purchase Agreement
Debentures
          The Company agrees with the Initial Purchaser (i) for its benefit as Initial Purchaser and (ii) for the benefit of the beneficial owners (including the Initial Purchaser) from time to time of the Debentures, and the beneficial owners from time to time of the Underlying Common Stock (as defined herein) issuable upon conversion of the Debentures (each of the foregoing a "" and together the ""), as follows:
Holder
Holders
          1. . Capitalized terms used but not specifically defined herein have the respective meanings ascribed thereto in the Purchase Agreement. As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
     "": This Registration Rights Agreement.
Agreement
     "": Any broker or dealer registered under the Exchange Act.
Broker-Dealer
     "": A day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York or Wilmington, Delaware are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close.
Business Day
     "": As defined in the Purchase Agreement.
Closing Time
     "": Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
     "": The Common Stock, $0.01 par value, of the Company, and if such Common Stock has been converted into or exchanged for other securities, any such securities into or for which the Common Stock has been so converted or exchanged, and any security issued with respect thereto upon any stock dividend, split or similar event.
Common Stock
     "": As defined in the preamble hereto.
Company
     "": Each March 20, June 20, September 20 and December 20.
Damages Payment Date
     "": As defined in the preamble hereto.
Debentures
     "": As defined in Section 2(a)(iii) hereof.
Effectiveness Period
 
     "": As defined in Section 2(a)(ii) hereof.
Effectiveness Target Date
     "": Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
     "": As defined in the preamble hereto.
Holder
     "": As defined in Section 2(b) hereof.
Holder Questionnaire
     "": The senior indenture, dated as of the date hereof, among the Company, Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee, and U.S. Bank Trust National Association as authenticating agent, pursuant to which the Debentures are being issued.
Indenture
     "": As defined in Section 2(a)(i) hereof.
Initial Filing Deadline
     "": As defined in the preamble hereto.
Initial Purchaser
     "": As defined in Section 3(a) hereof.
Liquidated Damages
     "": As defined in Section 2(a)(i) hereof.
New Shelf Registration Statement
     "": Holders holding over 50% of the aggregate Applicable Amount of Registrable Securities outstanding.
Majority of Holders
     "": National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
NASD
     "": An individual, partnership, corporation, unincorporated organization, trust, joint venture or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
     "": As defined in the preamble hereto.
Purchase Agreement
     "": The prospectus included in a Shelf Registration Statement, as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement and by all other amendments thereto, including any WKSI Prospectus Supplement and any post-effective amendments, and all material incorporated by reference into such Prospectus.
Prospectus
     "": With respect to any Damages Payment Date relating to any Securities, each Person who is a Holder at the close of business on the first day of the month (whether or not a Business Day) in which the relevant Damages Payment Date occurs.
Record Holder
     "": The Securities, until such securities have been converted or exchanged and, at all times subsequent to any such conversion or exchange, any securities into or for which such securities have been converted or exchanged, and any security issued with respect thereto upon any stock dividend, split, merger or similar event until, in the case of any such security, the earliest of (i) its effective registration under the Securities Act and resale in accordance with the Shelf Registration Statement covering it, (ii) expiration of the holding period that would be applicable thereto under
Registrable Securities
 
Rule 144(k) were it not held by an Affiliate of the Company, (iii) its sale to the public pursuant to Rule 144 or (iv) the expiration of the Effectiveness Period.
     "": As defined in Section 3(a) hereof.
Registration Default
     "": As defined in Section 4(b)(xx) hereof.
Rules
     "": Collectively means the Debentures and the Underlying Common Stock.
Securities
     "": Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
     "": The applicable shelf registration statement of the Company, as amended and supplemented, which provides for resales by Holders of Registrable Securities, whether a WKSI Shelf Registration Statement or a New Shelf Registration Statement.
Shelf Registration Statement
     "": As defined in Section 4(c) hereof.
Suspension Notice
     "": As defined in Section 4(b)(i) hereof.
Suspension Period
     "": Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as in effect on the date the Indenture is qualified under the TIA.
TIA
     "": Shall mean the trustee with respect to the Securities under the Indenture.
Trustee
     "": The Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Debentures.
Underlying Common Stock
     "": A registration in which securities of the Company are sold to an underwriter for reoffering to the public.
Underwritten Registration" or "Underwritten Offering
     "": As defined in Section 2(a)(i) hereof.
WKSI Prospectus Supplement
     "": Shall mean an automatically effective registration statement, as amended, for an offering of the Company's securities to be made on a delayed or continuous basis pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act filed by the Company with the Commission, which shall be effective on date the Company files, or causes to be filed, any WKSI Prospectus Supplement, and which shall be, unless the Company provides written notice to the Trustee of the effectiveness another automatically effective registration statement for purposes of this Agreement, Registration Statement No. 333- 132297 (filed on March 9, 2006), as amended, to the extent such registration statement remains effective.
WKSI Shelf Registration Statement
          2.
Shelf Registration.
          (a) The Company shall use its best efforts to:
 
     (i) (A) file or cause to be filed with the Commission, not later than 90 days after the Closing Time (the ""), a prospectus supplement to the prospectus included in a WKSI Shelf Registration Statement, which prospectus supplement shall provide for resales by Holders of Registrable Securities (""), or, (B) if no WKSI Shelf Registration Statement is effective at such time, file or cause to be filed with the Commission, not later than the Initial Filing Deadline, a new shelf registration statement for an offering to be made on a delayed or continuous basis pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act and providing for resales by Holders of Registrable Securities (the "");
Initial Filing Deadline
WKSI Prospectus Supplement
New Shelf Registration Statement
     (ii) in the event a New Shelf Registration Statement is filed, cause the New Shelf Registration Statement to be declared effective by the Commission not later than 180 days after the Closing Time (the ""); and
Effectiveness Target Date
     (iii) keep the applicable Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required by the provisions of Section 4(b) hereof to the extent necessary to ensure that it (A) is available for resales by the Holders of Registrable Securities entitled to the benefit of this Agreement and (B) conforms with the requirements of this Agreement and the Securities Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder as announced from time to time for a period (the "") that commences on the date of filing of the WKSI Prospectus Supplement or on the date the New Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective, as the case may be, and that will terminate upon the earliest of the following two dates: (x) the expiration of the holding period applicable to the Registrable Securities held by a non-affiliate of the Company under Rule 144(k) of the Securities Act or any successor rule thereto or (y) when all Registrable Securities have been sold pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement.
Effectiveness Period
          (b) No Holder of Registrable Securities shall be included as a selling securityholder of any Registrable Securities in a Shelf Registration Statement or a Prospectus pursuant to this Agreement unless such Holder furnishes to the Company in writing such information as the Company may reasonably request for use in connection with any Shelf Registration Statement, any preliminary Prospectus included therein or any Prospectus, and in any application to be filed with or under state securities laws (the form of which request is attached to the Offering Memorandum as Exhibit A and is referred to herein as the "") prior to any intended distribution of Registrable Securities. Each Holder of Registrable Securities who elects to sell Registrable Securities pursuant to a Prospectus, agrees by submitting a Holder Questionnaire to the Company that it will be bound by the terms and conditions of the Holder Questionnaire and this Agreement. In order to be named as a selling securityholder of Registration Securities in a New Shelf Registration Statement at the time it is declared effective, a Holder must complete and deliver the Holder Questionnaire to the Company within 30 days after the Company publicly announces the filing of a New Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 4(b)(xiv) hereof. From and after the date on which the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective and from and after the date any WKSI Prospectus Supplement is filed, as the case may be, the Company shall, during the ten business days following the end of the quarter in which at least one fully completed Holder Questionnaire is received by the Company, (i) if required by applicable law, file with the Commission a post-
Holder Questionnaire
 
effective amendment to the New Shelf Registration Statement or prepare and, if required by applicable law, file a Prospectus or a supplement or amendment to any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other document required by the Commission so that the Holder delivering such Holder Questionnaire is named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement or the Prospectus, or in both, as required by applicable law, in such a manner as to permit such Holder to deliver such Prospectus to purchasers of the Registrable Securities in accordance with applicable law and, if the Company shall file a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement, use its best efforts to cause such post-effective amendment to be declared effective under the Securities Act as promptly as is reasonably practicable, (ii) provide such Holder copies of any documents filed pursuant to clause (i) of this Section 2(b), if requested, and (iii) notify such Holder as promptly as is reasonably practicable after the effectiveness under the Securities Act of any post-effective amendment filed pursuant to clause (i) of this Section 2(b); that, if such Holder Questionnaire is delivered during a Suspension Period, the Company shall so inform the Holder delivering such Holder Questionnaire and shall take the actions set forth in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of this Section 2(b) upon expiration of the Suspension Period in accordance with Section 4(b)(i) hereof. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the Company shall be under no obligation to name any Holder that fails to complete and deliver in a timely manner a Holder Questionnaire as a selling securityholder in any Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus.
provided
          3.
Liquidated Damages.
          (a) If:
     (i) neither a WKSI Prospectus Supplement or a New Shelf Registration Statement is filed with the Commission prior to or on the Initial Filing Deadline;
     (ii) in the event a New Shelf Registration Statement is filed, such New Shelf Registration Statement has not been declared effective under the Securities Act by the Commission prior to or on the Effectiveness Target Date;
     (iii) except as provided in Section 4(b)(i) hereof, at any time after a WKSI Prospectus Supplement is filed or, if a New Shelf Registration Statement is filed and declared effective, at any time after the Effectiveness Target Date, and in each case prior to the end of the Effectiveness Period, the applicable Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus shall thereafter cease to be effective or fail to be usable for its intended purpose without being succeeded within ten Business Days by filing a new prospectus supplement, a new Shelf Registration Statement, a post-effective amendment to a Shelf Registration Statement or a report filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act that cures such failure and, in the case of a post-effective amendment, is itself immediately declared effective; or
     (iv) (A) prior to or on the 45th day of any Suspension Period, such suspension has not been terminated or (B) Suspension Periods exceed an aggregate of 90 days in any 360-day period or an aggregate of 45 days in any 90-day period,
 
(each such event referred to in foregoing clauses (i) through (iv), a ""), the Company hereby agrees to pay as liquidated damages ("") with respect to any Debentures that are Registrable Securities from and including the day following the Registration Default to but excluding the day on which the Registration Default has been cured, accruing at a rate:
Registration Default
Liquidated Damages
     (A) with respect to the first 90-day period during which a Registration Default shall have occurred and be continuing, equal to 0.25% per annum of the original principal amount of the Debentures, and
     (B) with respect to the period commencing on the 91st day following the day the Registration Default shall have occurred and be continuing, equal to 0.50% per annum of the original principal amount of the Debentures;
that in no event shall Liquidated Damages accrue at a rate per year exceeding 0.50% of the original principal amount of the Debentures. Following conversion of any Debentures Liquidated Damages cease to accrue and no Liquidated Damages will accrue with respect to the Underlying Common Stock.
provided
          (b) All accrued Liquidated Damages shall be paid in arrears to Record Holders of any Registrable Security by the Company on each Damages Payment Date by wire transfer of immediately available funds or by federal funds check; that any Liquidated Damages accrued with respect to any Registrable Security called for redemption on a redemption date prior to the Damages Payment Date shall be paid instead to the Holder who submitted such Registrable Security on the applicable redemption date. Following the cure of all Registration Defaults relating to any particular Registrable Security, the accrual of Liquidated Damages with respect to such Registrable Security will cease.
provided
          All obligations of the Company set forth in this Section 3 that are outstanding with respect to any Registrable Security at the time such security ceases to be a Registrable Security shall survive until such time as all such obligations with respect to such Registrable Security shall have been satisfied in full.
          The Liquidated Damages set forth above shall be the exclusive monetary remedy available to the Holders of Registrable Securities for such Registration Default and each Holder of a Registrable Security shall be entitled to receive Liquidated Damages if such Holder has complied with the requirements of Section 2(b) hereof.
          4.
Registration Procedures.
          (a) (i) In connection with any Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto, the Company shall comply with all the provisions of Section 4(b) hereof and shall use its best efforts to make such filing or effect such registration, as the case may be, to permit the sale of the Registrable Securities being sold in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution thereof, and pursuant thereto, shall as expeditiously as possible prepare and file with the Commission a WKSI Prospectus Supplement or a New Shelf Registration Statement relating to the registration on any appropriate form under the Securities Act, as the case may be.
 
          (ii) Before filing any Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto with the Commission, the Company shall furnish to the Initial Purchaser copies of all such documents proposed to be filed and use its best efforts to reflect in each such document when so filed with the Commission such comments as the Initial Purchaser reasonably shall propose within five Business Days of the delivery of such copies to the Initial Purchaser.
          (b) In connection with any Shelf Registration Statement and any Prospectus required by this Agreement to permit the sale or resale of Registrable Securities, the Company shall:
     (i) Subject to any notice by the Company in accordance with this Section 4(b)(i) of the existence of any fact or event of the kind described in Section 4(b)(iii)(E) hereof, use its best efforts to keep the applicable Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective during the Effectiveness Period; upon the occurrence of any event that would cause the applicable Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus to (A) contain a material misstatement or omission or (B) not be effective and usable for resale of Registrable Securities during the Effectiveness Period in accordance with the methods of distribution described therein, the Company shall file promptly an appropriate amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement or a supplement to the related Prospectus or a report filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, in the case of clause (A), correcting any such misstatement or omission, and, in the case of either clause (A) or (B), use its best efforts to cause any such amendment to be declared effective and any such Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus to become usable for their intended purposes as soon as practicable thereafter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may suspend the effectiveness of the applicable Shelf Registration Statement by written notice to the Holders for a period not to exceed an aggregate of 45 days in any 90-day period (each such period, a "") if:
Suspension Period
     (x) an event occurs and is continuing as a result of which any Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus would, in the Company's reasonable judgment, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; and
     (y) the Company reasonably determines that the disclosure of such event at such time would have a material adverse effect on the business of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or on a previously undisclosed proposed or pending material business transaction;
, , that Suspension Periods shall not exceed an aggregate of 90 days in any 360-day period.
provided
however
     (ii) Prepare and file with the Commission such amendments and post-effective amendments to the Shelf Registration Statement as may be necessary to keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective during the Effectiveness Period; cause the related
 
Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 (or any similar provisions then in force) under the Securities Act applicable to them, and to comply fully with the applicable provisions of Rules 424 and 430B under the Securities Act in a timely manner; and comply with the provisions of the Securities Act applicable to them with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement during the Effectiveness Period in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution by the sellers thereof set forth in the Shelf Registration Statement or supplement to the Prospectus; that in no event will such method(s) of distribution take the form of an Underwritten Offering without the prior agreement of the Company, which agreement will not be unreasonably withheld.
provided
     (iii) Advise the underwriter(s), if any, the Initial Purchaser, and each selling Holder promptly (but in any event within five Business Days) and, if requested by such Persons, to confirm such advice in writing:
     (A) when any Shelf Registration Statement or any Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto has been filed, and, with respect to a Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto, when the same has become effective;
     (B) of any request by the Commission for amendments to the Shelf Registration Statement or amendments or supplements to the Prospectus or for additional information relating thereto;
     (C) of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement under the Securities Act or of the receipt of any notification with respect to the suspension by any state securities commission of the qualification or exemption from qualification of the Registrable Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or the initiation of any proceeding for any of the preceding purposes;
     (D) of any determination by the Company that a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement would be appropriate; or
     (E) of the existence of any fact or the happening of any event, during the Effectiveness Period, that makes any statement of a material fact made in the Shelf Registration Statement, the Prospectus, any amendment or supplement thereto, or any document incorporated by reference therein untrue, or that requires the making of any additions to or changes in the Shelf Registration Statement or the Prospectus so that, as of such date, the Shelf Registration Statement and the Prospectus do not contain an untrue statement of a material fact and do not omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of the Prospectus, in light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading.
 
If at any time the Commission shall issue any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement, or any state securities commission or other regulatory authority shall issue an order suspending the qualification or exemption from qualification of the Registrable Securities under state securities or Blue Sky laws, the Company shall use its best efforts to obtain the withdrawal or lifting of such order at the earliest possible time and will provide to the Initial Purchasers and each Holder who is named in a Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus pursuant to this Agreement prompt notice of the withdrawal of any such order.
     (iv) Make available at reasonable times during normal business hours for inspection by one or more representatives of the selling Holders, designated in writing by a Majority of Holders whose Registrable Securities are included a Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus pursuant to this Agreement, any underwriter participating in any distribution pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus, and any Broker-Dealer, attorney or accountant retained by such selling Holders or any of the underwriter(s), if any, all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company and its subsidiaries as shall be reasonably necessary to enable them to exercise any applicable due diligence responsibilities, and cause the Company's officers, directors, trustees, managers and employees to supply, at the Company's expense, all information reasonably requested by any such representative or representatives of the selling Holders, underwriter, Broker-Dealer, attorney or accountant in connection with a Shelf Registration Statement before its effectiveness or before the filing of a prospectus supplement, as applicable; , , that, if the Company so requests, such person shall first agree in writing with the Company that any information that is reasonably and in good faith designated by the Company in writing as confidential at the time of delivery of such information shall be kept confidential by such persons and shall be used solely for the purposes of exercising rights under this Agreement, unless (1) disclosure of such information is required by court or administrative order or is necessary to respond to inquiries of regulatory authorities, (2) disclosure of such information is required by law (including any disclosure requirements pursuant to federal securities laws in connection with the filing of a Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus, as the case may be, or the use of any Prospectus referred to in this Agreement), (3) such information becomes generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure or failure to safeguard by any such person or (4) such information becomes available to any such person from a source other than the Company and such source is not bound by a confidentiality agreement or is not otherwise under a duty of trust to the Company.
provided
however
     (v) If requested by any selling Holders or the underwriter(s), if any, promptly incorporate in the Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus, pursuant to a supplement or post-effective amendment if necessary, such information as such selling Holders and underwriter(s), if any, may reasonably request to have included therein, including, without limitation: (1) information relating to the "Plan of Distribution" of the Registrable Securities, (2) information with respect to the principal amount or number of Registrable Securities being sold to such underwriter(s), (3) the purchase price being paid therefor and (4) any other terms of the offering of the Registrable Securities to be sold in such offering; and make all required filings of such Prospectus supplement or post-
 
effective amendment as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company is notified of the matters to be incorporated in such Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment.
     (vi) Furnish to each selling Holder and each of the underwriter(s), if any, upon their request, without charge, at least one copy of the applicable Shelf Registration Statement, as first filed with the Commission, and of each amendment thereto (and any documents incorporated by reference therein or exhibits thereto (or exhibits incorporated in such exhibits by reference) as such Person may request).
     (vii) Deliver to each selling Holder and each of the underwriter(s), if any, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus (including each preliminary Prospectus) and any amendment or supplement thereto and such other documents as such Persons reasonably may request; subject to any notice by the Company in accordance with this Section 4(b) of the existence of any fact or event of the kind described in Section 4(b)(iii)(E) hereof, the Company hereby consents to the use of the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders and each of the underwriter(s), if any, in connection with the offering and the sale of the Registrable Securities covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto.
     (viii) The Company shall:
     (A) Upon request, furnish to each selling Holder and each underwriter, if any, in such substance and scope as they may reasonably request and as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in primary underwritten offerings for selling securityholders, upon the date of closing of any sale of Registrable Securities in an Underwritten Registration:
     (1) a certificate, dated the date of such closing, signed by the Chief Financial Officer of the Company confirming, as of the date thereof, the matters set forth in Section 5(d) of the Purchase Agreement and such other matters as such parties may reasonably request;
     (2) opinions, each dated the date of such closing, of counsel to the Company and updates thereof (which counsel and opinions (in form, scope and substance) shall be reasonably satisfactory to the managing underwriters, if any, and the holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Securities being sold) addressed to each selling Holder and the underwriters, if any, covering such of the matters as are customarily covered in legal opinions to underwriters in connection with underwritten offerings of securities and such other matters as may be reasonably requested by the selling Holders and the underwriters; and
     (3) customary comfort letters, dated the date of such closing, from the Company's independent accountants (and from any other accountants whose report is contained or incorporated by reference in the Shelf Registration Statement or the Prospectus) to the extent deliverable in
 
accordance with their professional standards, reasonable efforts to have such letter addressed to the selling Holders of Registrable Securities (to the extent consistent with Statement on Auditing Standards No. 100 of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants), such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in comfort letters to underwriters in connection with underwritten offerings of securities;
     (B) set forth in full in the underwriting agreement, if any, indemnification provisions and procedures which provide rights no less protective than those set forth in Section 7 hereof with respect to all parties to be indemnified;
     (C) make such representations and warranties to the selling Holders participating in an Underwritten Registration and the underwriter(s), if any, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in primary underwritten offerings, including, but not limited to, those set forth in the Purchase Agreement; and
     (D) deliver such other documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by such parties to evidence compliance with clause (A) above and with any customary conditions contained in the underwriting agreement, if any, or other agreement entered into by the selling Holders pursuant to this clause (viii).
     (ix) Before any public offering of Registrable Securities, cooperate with the selling Holders, the underwriter(s), if any, and their respective counsel in connection with the registration and qualification of the Registrable Securities under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions in the United States as the selling Holders or underwriter(s), if any, may reasonably request and do any and all other acts or things necessary or advisable to enable the disposition in such jurisdictions of the Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus; , , that the Company shall not be required (A) to qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this Section 4(b)(ix), or (B) take any action that would subject it to general service of process or taxation in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject.
provided
however
     (x) Unless the applicable Registrable Securities shall be in book-entry only form, cooperate with the selling Holders and the underwriter(s), if any, to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends; and enable such Registrable Securities to be in such denominations and registered in such names as the selling Holders or the underwriter(s), if any, may request at least two Business Days before any sale of Registrable Securities made by such selling Holder or underwriter(s).
     (xi) Subject to Section 4(b)(i) hereof, if any fact or event contemplated by Section 4(b)(iii)(E) hereof shall exist or have occurred, use its best efforts to prepare a supplement or post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement or a
 
supplement or amendment to the Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of Registrable Securities, the Registration Statement and the Prospectus will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. At such time as such public disclosure is otherwise made or the Company determines that such disclosure is not necessary, in each case to correct any misstatement of a material fact or to include any omitted material fact, the Company agrees promptly to notify each Holder of such determination and to furnish each Holder such number of copies of the Prospectus as amended or supplemented, as the case may be, as such Holder may reasonably request.
     (xii) Provide CUSIP numbers for the Securities and, in the event of and at the time of any distribution thereof to Holders, the Debentures registered under such Shelf Registration Statement not later than the filing date of the WKSI Prospectus Supplement or the effective date of the New Shelf Registration Statement, as the case may be, and provide the Trustee under the Indenture with certificates for such Securities that are in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company.
     (xiii) Cooperate, assist and provide such information as is required with respect to any filings required to be made with the NASD and in the performance of any due diligence investigation by any underwriter that is required to be retained in accordance with the rules and regulations of the NASD.
     (xiv) Upon (i) the filing of the WKSI Prospectus Supplement or New Shelf Registration Statement, as the case may be, pursuant to Section 2(a)(i) hereof and (ii) the effectiveness of any New Shelf Registration Statement, if applicable, pursuant to Section 2(a)(ii) hereof, announce the same, in each case by release to Businesswire, Reuters Economic Services, Bloomberg Business News or any other means of dissemination reasonably expected to make such information known publicly.
     (xv) Otherwise comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission and all reporting requirements under the rules and regulations of the Exchange Act and generally make available to its securityholders (or otherwise provide in accordance with Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 158 thereunder) an earnings statement satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act, no later than 45 days after the end of the 12-month period (or 90 days, if such period is a fiscal year) beginning the first month of the Company's first quarter commencing after the Effectiveness Target Date, which statement shall cover such 12-month period.
     (xvi) Cause the Indenture to be qualified under the TIA not later than the effective date of the New Shelf Registration Statement or the filing of the WKSI Prospectus Supplement, as applicable, and, in connection therewith, cooperate with the applicable trustees and the holders of Securities to effect such changes to such documents as may be required for such documents to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the TIA; and execute and use its best efforts to cause the Trustee to execute all documents that may be required to effect such changes and all other forms and documents required
 
to be filed with the Commission to enable such documents to be so qualified in a timely manner.
     (xvii) Cause all Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus to be listed or quoted, as the case may be, on each securities exchange or automated quotation system on which similar securities issued by the Company are then listed or quoted.
     (xviii) Provide to each Holder, upon written request, each document filed with the Commission pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 and Section 15 of the Exchange Act after the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement, unless such document is publicly available via the Commission's EDGAR system.
     (xix) At a reasonable time prior to the filing of any Shelf Registration Statement, any Prospectus forming a part thereof, any amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to such Prospectus or any document that is to be incorporated by reference into any Shelf Registration Statement or any Prospectus after the initial filing of the Shelf Registration Statement, provide copies of such document to the Holders of Registrable Securities, to the Initial Purchaser, to counsel for the Holders and to the underwriter or underwriters of an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities, if any; make such changes in any such document prior to the filing thereof as the Initial Purchaser, the counsel to the Holders or the underwriter or underwriters, if any, reasonably request; and not file any such document in a form to which the Majority of Holders, the Initial Purchaser on behalf of the Holders of Registrable Securities, counsel for the Holders of Registrable Securities or any underwriter shall not have previously been advised and furnished a copy of, or to which the Majority of Holders, the Initial Purchaser on behalf of the Holders of Registrable Securities, counsel to the Holders of Registrable Securities or any underwriter shall reasonably object; and make the representatives of the Company available for discussion of such document as shall be reasonably requested by the Holders of Registrable Securities, the Initial Purchaser on behalf of such Holders, counsel for the Holders of Registrable Securities or any underwriter.
     (xx) In the event that any Broker-Dealer shall underwrite any Registrable Securities or participate as a member of an underwriting syndicate or selling group or "assist in the distribution" (within the meaning of the Rules of Fair Practice of the NASD (the "") and the By-Laws of the NASD) thereof, whether as a Holder of such Registrable Securities or as an underwriter, a placement or sales agent or a broker or dealer in respect thereof, or otherwise, assist such Broker-Dealer in complying with the requirements of such Rules and By-Laws, including, without limitation, by (A) if such Rules or By-Laws shall so require, engaging a "qualified independent underwriter" to participate in the preparation of the Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus relating to such Registrable Securities and to exercise usual standards of due diligence in respect thereto, (B) indemnifying any such qualified independent underwriter to the extent of the indemnification of underwriters provided in Section 7 hereof and (C) providing any information to such Broker-Dealer as may be required in order for such Broker-Dealer to comply with the requirements of the Rules.
Rules
 
     (xxi) Enter into such customary agreements and take such other reasonable necessary actions in connection therewith (including those reasonably requested by the Majority of Holders of Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus) in order to expedite or facilitate disposition of such Registrable Securities.
          (c) Each Holder agrees by acquisition of a Registrable Security that, upon receipt of any notice (a "") from the Company of the existence of any fact of the kind described in Section 4(b)(iii)(E) hereof, such Holder will, and will use its best efforts to cause any underwriter(s) in an Underwritten Offering to, forthwith discontinue disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement until:
Suspension Notice
     (i) such Holder has received copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 4(b)(xvii) hereof; or
     (ii) such Holder is advised in writing by the Company that the use of the Prospectus may be resumed, and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings that are incorporated by reference in the Prospectus.
If so directed by the Company, each Holder will deliver to the Company (at the Company's expense) all copies, other than permanent file copies then in such Holder's possession, of the Prospectus covering such Registrable Securities that was current at the time of receipt of such Suspension Notice.
          (d) Upon the initial sale of any Registrable Securities pursuant to any Shelf Registration Statement, each selling Holder shall deliver a notice of such sale to the Company certifying that (i) the Prospectus delivery requirements, if any, of the Securities Act have been complied with and (ii) such selling Holder and the aggregate amount of Registrable Securities owned by such selling Holder are identified in the related Prospectus in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations under the Securities Act.
          If any of the Registrable Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the underwriter or underwriters and manager or managers that will manage such offering will be selected by the Majority of Holders of such Registrable Securities included in such offering and shall be acceptable to the Company. No Holder of Registrable Securities may participate in any underwritten registration hereunder unless such Holder (a) agrees to sell such Holder's Registrable Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (b) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
 
          5. . Each Holder agrees, by acquisition of the Registrable Securities, that no Holder of Registrable Securities shall be entitled to sell any of such Registrable Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement or to receive a Prospectus relating thereto, unless such Holder has furnished the Company with a Holder Questionnaire as required pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof (including the information required to be included in such Holder Questionnaire).
Holder's Obligations
          6. .
Registration Expenses
          (a) The Company shall bear all fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations under Sections 2 and 4 of this Agreement, whether or not any Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective or any Prospectus is filed. Such fees and expenses shall include, without limitation, (i) all registration and filing fees (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and disbursements of the counsel specified in the next sentence in connection with Blue Sky qualifications of the Registrable Securities under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities being sold pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement may designate), (ii) printing expenses (including, without limitation, expenses of printing certificates for Registrable Securities in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company), (iii) duplication expenses relating to copies of any Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus delivered to any Holders hereunder, (iv) fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement and (v) reasonable fees and disbursements of the Trustee and its counsel and of the registrar and transfer agent for the Common Stock. In addition, the Company shall bear or reimburse the Holders that have delivered a Holder Questionnaire for the reasonable fees and disbursements of one firm of legal counsel for the Holders incurred in reviewing and commenting upon the Shelf Registration Statement prior to its effectiveness, which shall, upon the written consent of the Initial Purchaser (which shall not be unreasonably withheld), be a nationally recognized law firm experienced in securities law matters designated by the Company. In addition, the Company shall pay the internal expenses of the Company (including, without limitation, all salaries and expenses of officers and employees performing legal or accounting duties), the expense of any annual audit, the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing of the Registrable Securities on any securities exchange on which the same securities of the Company are then listed and the fees and expenses of any person, including special experts, retained by the Company.
          (b) In connection with each Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus required by this Agreement, including any amendment or supplement thereto, and any other documents delivered to any Holders, the Company shall reimburse the Initial Purchaser and the Holders of Registrable Securities being registered pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, as applicable, for the reasonable fees and disbursements of not more than one counsel, which shall be Shearman & Sterling LLP, or such other counsel as may be chosen by a Majority of Holders for whose benefit the Shelf Registration Statement is being prepared.
 
          7.
Indemnification and Contribution.
          (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Initial Purchaser, each Holder, and each person, if any, who controls the Initial Purchaser or such Holder within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act as follows:
     (i) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), pursuant to which Registrable Securities were registered under the Securities Act, including all documents incorporated therein by reference, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
     (ii) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or of any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission; that (subject to Section 7(d) below) any such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company; and
provided
     (iii) against any and all expense whatsoever, as incurred (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by any indemnified party), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under subparagraph (i) or (ii) above;
, , that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Holder expressly for use in any Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), as the case may be, or any Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).
provided
however
          (b) Each Holder severally, but not jointly, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the Initial Purchaser and the other selling Holders, and each of their respective directors and officers, and each Person, if any, who controls the Company, the Initial Purchaser, or any other selling Holder within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in Section 7(a) hereof, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or
 
omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in a Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), or any Prospectus included therein (or any amendment or supplement thereto), in reliance upon and in conformity with written information with respect to such Holder furnished to the Company by such Holder expressly for use in such Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or such Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto); , , that no such Holder shall be liable for any claims hereunder in excess of the amount of net proceeds received by such Holder from the sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement.
provided
however
          (c) Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement. The indemnifying party shall be entitled to appoint counsel (including local counsel) of the indemnifying party's choice at the indemnifying party's expense to represent the indemnified party in any action for which indemnification is sought (in which case the indemnifying party shall not thereafter be responsible for the fees and expenses of any separate counsel (other than local counsel); , , that the counsel appointed by the indemnifying party shall be reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party. Notwithstanding the indemnifying party's election to appoint counsel (including local counsel) to represent the indemnified party in any action, the indemnified party shall have the right to employ separate counsel (including local counsel), and the indemnifying party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if (i) the use of counsel chosen by the indemnifying party to represent the indemnified party would present such counsel with an actual or potential conflict of interest; (ii) the actual or potential defendants in, or targets of, any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party; (iii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party or such appointment was not within a reasonable time after notice of the institution of such action; or (iv) the indemnifying party shall authorize the indemnified party to employ separate counsel at the expense of the indemnifying party. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this Section 7 (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
provided
however
          (d) If at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, such indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of the nature contemplated by Section
 
7(a)(ii) effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed such indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement.
          (e) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 7 is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Holders and the Initial Purchaser on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
          The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Holders and the Initial Purchaser on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, the Holders or the Initial Purchaser and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
          The Company, the Holders and the Initial Purchaser agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 7. The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 7 shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
          Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, the Initial Purchaser shall not be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities sold by it were offered exceeds the amount of any damages which such Initial Purchaser has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
          No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
          For purposes of this Section 7, each Person, if any, who controls the Initial Purchaser or a Holder within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Initial Purchaser or such Holder, and each director of the Company, and each Person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
 
          8. . The Company shall use its best efforts to file the reports required to be filed by it under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act in a timely manner and, if at any time the Company is not required to file such reports, it will, within a reasonable period of time, upon written request of any Holder of Registrable Securities, make publicly available other information so long as necessary to permit sales of its securities pursuant to Rules 144 and 144A. The Company covenants that it will take such further action as any Holder of Registrable Securities may reasonably request, all to the extent required from time to time to enable such Holder to sell such Registrable Securities without registration under the Securities Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by Rules 144 and 144A (including the requirements of Rule 144A(d)(4)). The Company will provide a copy of this Agreement to prospective purchasers of Registrable Securities identified to the Company by the Initial Purchaser upon request. Upon the request of any Holder of Registrable Securities, the Company shall deliver to such Holder a written statement as to whether it has complied with such requirements. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Section 8 shall be deemed to require the Company to register any of its securities pursuant to the Exchange Act.
Rules 144 and 144A
          9.
Miscellaneous.
          (a) . The Company has not entered into and the Company will not after the date of this Agreement enter into any agreement which is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not and will not for the term of this Agreement in any way conflict with the rights granted to the holders of the Company's other issued and outstanding securities under any such agreements.
No Inconsistent Agreements
          (b) . The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless the Company has obtained the written consent of Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Registrable Securities affected by such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or departure.
Amendments and Waivers
          (c) . All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, first-class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), telex, facsimile transmission, or air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery. Notices to the Initial Purchaser shall be directed to Citigroup Global Markets, Inc. at 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, Attention: General Counsel; notices to the Company shall be directed to it at 800 Nicollett Mall, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402, attention of Treasurer.
Notices
          All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; two Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when answered back, if telexed; when receipt acknowledged, if transmitted by facsimile; and on the next Business Day, if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.
 
          Copies of all such notices, demands, or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the person giving the same to the Trustee under the Indenture, at the address specified in such Indenture.
          (d) . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors, assigns and transferees of each of the parties, including, without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders; that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Securities in violation of the terms of the Purchase Agreement or the Indenture. If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Registrable Securities, in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Registrable Securities shall be held subject to all of the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Securities such person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement, including the restrictions on resale set forth in this Agreement and, if applicable, the Purchase Agreement, and such person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof.
Successors and Assigns
provided
          (e) . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
          (f) . The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings
          (g) . This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
Governing Law
          (h) . If any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect for any reason, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall remain in full force and effect and shall not be affected or impaired or invalidated thereby, it being intended that all of the rights and privileges of the parties shall be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Severability
          (i) . This Agreement is intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement and intended to be a complete and exclusive statement of the agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein and the registration rights granted by the Company with respect to the Registrable Securities. There are no restrictions, promises, warranties or undertakings, other than those set forth or referred to herein with respect to the registration rights granted by the Company with respect to the Registrable Securities. This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings among the parties with respect to such subject matter.
Entire Agreement
          (j) . The Holders shall be third party beneficiaries to the agreements made hereunder between the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and the Holders shall have the right to enforce such agreements
Third Party Beneficiaries
 
           directly to the extent they may deem such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect their rights or the rights of Holders hereunder.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
The foregoing Registration Rights Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written.
CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.

 
Exhibit 25.1
 
ITEM 1. GENERAL INFORMATION.
     Furnish the following information as to the trustee:
     (a) Name and address of each examining or supervising authority to which it is subject.
     (b)Whether it is authorized to exercise corporate trust powers.
     The trustee is authorized to exercise corporate trust powers.
ITEM 2. AFFILIATIONS WITH THE OBLIGOR.
     If the obligor is an affiliate of the trustee, describe each affiliation:
Based upon an examination of the books and records of the trustee and information available to the trustee, the obligor is not an affiliate of the trustee.
ITEM 16. LIST OF EXHIBITS.
     List below all exhibits filed as part of this Statement of Eligibility and Qualification.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, the trustee, Wilmington Trust Company, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of Delaware, has duly caused this Statement of Eligibility to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, all in the City of Wilmington and State of Delaware on the 19 day of December, 2006.
th
 
 
 
     , originally incorporated by an Act of the General Assembly of the State of Delaware, entitled "An Act to Incorporate the Delaware Guarantee and Trust Company", approved March 2, A.D. 1901, and the name of which company was changed to "" by an amendment filed in the Office of the Secretary of State on March 18, A.D. 1903, and the Charter or Act of Incorporation of which company has been from time to time amended and changed by merger agreements pursuant to the corporation law for state banks and trust companies of the State of Delaware, does hereby alter and amend its Charter or Act of Incorporation so that the same as so altered and amended shall in its entirety read as follows:
Wilmington Trust Company
Wilmington Trust Company
     - The name of this corporation is .
First:
Wilmington Trust Company
     - The location of its principal office in the State of Delaware is at Rodney Square North, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle; the name of its resident agent is whose address is Rodney Square North, in said City. In addition to such principal office, the said corporation maintains and operates branch offices in the City of Newark, New Castle County, Delaware, the Town of Newport, New Castle County, Delaware, at Claymont, New Castle County, Delaware, at Greenville, New Castle County Delaware, and at Milford Cross Roads, New Castle County, Delaware, and shall be empowered to open, maintain and operate branch offices at Ninth and Shipley Streets, 418 Delaware Avenue, 2120 Market Street, and 3605 Market Street, all in the City of Wilmington, New Castle County, Delaware, and such other branch offices or places of business as may be authorized from time to time by the agency or agencies of the government of the State of Delaware empowered to confer such authority.
Second:
Wilmington Trust Company
     - (a) The nature of the business and the objects and purposes proposed to be transacted, promoted or carried on by this Corporation are to do any or all of the things herein mentioned as fully and to the same extent as natural persons might or could do and in any part of the world, viz.:
Third:
 
or claims, adverse to his interest therein, and to prepare and give certificates of title for any lands or premises in the State of Delaware, or elsewhere.
 
     (b) In furtherance of, and not in limitation, of the powers conferred by the laws of the State of Delaware, it is hereby expressly provided that the said Corporation shall also have the following powers:
 
     - (a) The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is forty-one million (41,000,000) shares, consisting of:
Fourth:
     (b) Shares of Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series as may from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors each of said series to be distinctly designated. All shares of any one series of Preferred Stock shall be alike in every particular, except that there may be different dates from which dividends, if any, thereon shall be cumulative, if made cumulative. The voting powers and the preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights of each such series, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, if any, may differ from those of any and all other series at any time outstanding; and, subject to the provisions of subparagraph 1 of Paragraph (c) of this Article , the Board of Directors of the Corporation is hereby expressly granted authority to fix by resolution or resolutions adopted prior to the issuance of any shares of a particular series of Preferred Stock, the voting powers and the designations, preferences and relative, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions of such series, including, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the following:
Fourth
 
 
     (d) No holder of any of the shares of any class or series of stock or of options, warrants or other rights to purchase shares of any class or series of stock or of other securities of the Corporation shall have any preemptive right to purchase or subscribe for any unissued stock of any class or series or any additional shares of any class or series to be issued by reason of any increase of the authorized capital stock of the Corporation of any class or series, or bonds, certificates of indebtedness, debentures or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for stock of the Corporation of any class or series, or carrying any right to purchase stock of any class or series, but any such unissued stock, additional authorized issue of shares of any class or series of stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for stock, or carrying any right to purchase stock, may be issued and disposed of pursuant to resolution of the Board of Directors to such persons, firms, corporations or associations, whether such holders or others, and upon such terms as may be deemed advisable by the Board of Directors in the exercise of its sole discretion.
     (e) The relative powers, preferences and rights of each series of Preferred Stock in relation to the relative powers, preferences and rights of each other series of Preferred Stock shall, in each case, be as fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors in the resolution or resolutions adopted pursuant to authority granted in section (b) of this Article and the consent, by class or series vote or otherwise, of the holders of such of the series of Preferred Stock as are from time to time outstanding shall not be required for the issuance by the Board of Directors of any other series of Preferred Stock whether or not the powers, preferences and rights of such other series shall be fixed by the Board of Directors as senior to, or on a parity with, the powers, preferences and rights of such outstanding series, or any of them; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may provide in the resolution or resolutions as to any series of Preferred Stock adopted pursuant to section (b) of this Article that the consent of the holders of a majority (or such greater proportion as shall be therein fixed) of the outstanding shares of such series voting thereon shall be required for the issuance of any or all other series of Preferred Stock.
Fourth
Fourth
     (f) Subject to the provisions of section (e), shares of any series of Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time as the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall determine and on such terms and for such consideration as shall be fixed by the Board of Directors.
     (g) Shares of Common Stock may be issued from time to time as the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall determine and on such terms and for such consideration as shall be fixed by the Board of Directors.
 
     (h) The authorized amount of shares of Common Stock and of Preferred Stock may, without a class or series vote, be increased or decreased from time to time by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the stock of the Corporation entitled to vote thereon.
     - (a) The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be conducted and managed by a Board of Directors. The number of directors constituting the entire Board shall be not less than five nor more than twenty-five as fixed from time to time by vote of a majority of the whole Board, provided, however, that the number of directors shall not be reduced so as to shorten the term of any director at the time in office, and provided further, that the number of directors constituting the whole Board shall be twenty-four until otherwise fixed by a majority of the whole Board.
Fifth:
     (b) The Board of Directors shall be divided into three classes, as nearly equal in number as the then total number of directors constituting the whole Board permits, with the term of office of one class expiring each year. At the annual meeting of stockholders in 1982, directors of the first class shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting, directors of the second class shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the second succeeding annual meeting and directors of the third class shall be elected to hold office for a term expiring at the third succeeding annual meeting. Any vacancies in the Board of Directors for any reason, and any newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the directors, may be filled by the Board of Directors, acting by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, and any directors so chosen shall hold office until the next annual election of directors. At such election, the stockholders shall elect a successor to such director to hold office until the next election of the class for which such director shall have been chosen and until his successor shall be elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
     (c) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Charter or Act of Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Corporation (and notwithstanding the fact that some lesser percentage may be specified by law, this Charter or Act of Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Corporation), any director or the entire Board of Directors of the Corporation may be removed at any time without cause, but only by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds or more of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (considered for this purpose as one class) cast at a meeting of the stockholders called for that purpose.
     (d) Nominations for the election of directors may be made by the Board of Directors or by any stockholder entitled to vote for the election of directors. Such nominations shall be made by notice in writing, delivered or mailed by first class United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary of the Corporation not less than 14 days nor more than 50 days prior to any meeting of the stockholders called for the election of directors; provided, however, that if less than 21 days' notice of the meeting is given to stockholders, such written notice shall be delivered or mailed, as prescribed, to the Secretary of the Corporation not later than the close of the seventh day following the day on which notice of the meeting was mailed to stockholders. Notice of nominations which are proposed by the Board of Directors shall be given by the Chairman on behalf of the Board.
 
     (e) Each notice under subsection (d) shall set forth (i) the name, age, business address and, if known, residence address of each nominee proposed in such notice, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of such nominee and (iii) the number of shares of stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by each such nominee.
     (f) The Chairman of the meeting may, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedure, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
     (g) No action required to be taken or which may be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation may be taken without a meeting, and the power of stockholders to consent in writing, without a meeting, to the taking of any action is specifically denied.
     - The Directors shall choose such officers, agents and servants as may be provided in the By-Laws as they may from time to time find necessary or proper.
Sixth:
     - The Corporation hereby created is hereby given the same powers, rights and privileges as may be conferred upon corporations organized under the Act entitled "An Act Providing a General Corporation Law", approved March 10, 1899, as from time to time amended.
Seventh:
     - This Act shall be deemed and taken to be a private Act.
Eighth:
     - This Corporation is to have perpetual existence.
Ninth:
     - The Board of Directors, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board, may designate any of their number to constitute an Executive Committee, which Committee, to the extent provided in said resolution, or in the By-Laws of the Company, shall have and may exercise all of the powers of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and shall have power to authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it.
Tenth:
     - The private property of the stockholders shall not be liable for the payment of corporate debts to any extent whatever.
Eleventh:
     - The Corporation may transact business in any part of the world.
Twelfth:
     - The Board of Directors of the Corporation is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation by a vote of the majority of the entire Board. The stockholders may make, alter or repeal any By-Law whether or not adopted by them, provided however, that any such additional By-Laws, alterations or repeal may be adopted only by the affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds or more of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (considered for this purpose as one class).
Thirteenth:
     - Meetings of the Directors may be held outside of the State of Delaware at such places as may be from time to time designated by the Board, and the Directors may keep the books of the Company outside of the State of Delaware at such places as may be from time to time designated by them.
Fourteenth:
 
     - (a) (1) In addition to any affirmative vote required by law, and except as otherwise expressly provided in sections (b) and (c) of this Article
Fifteenth:
Fifteenth:
shall require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, considered for the purpose of this Article as one class ("Voting Shares"). Such affirmative vote shall be required notwithstanding the fact that no vote may be required, or that some lesser percentage may be specified, by law or in any agreement with any national securities exchange or otherwise.
Fifteenth
 
     (b) The provisions of section (a) of this Article shall not be applicable to any particular business combination and such business combination shall require only such affirmative vote as is required by law and any other provisions of the Charter or Act of Incorporation or By-Laws if such business combination has been approved by a majority of the whole Board.
Fifteenth
     (c) For the purposes of this Article :
Fifteenth
 
     (d) majority of the directors shall have the power and duty to determine for the purposes of this Article on the basis of information known to them, (1) the number of Voting Shares beneficially owned by any person (2) whether a person is an Affiliate or Associate of another, (3) whether a person has an agreement, arrangement or understanding with another as to the matters referred to in paragraph (3) of section (c), or (4) whether the assets subject to any business combination or the consideration received for the issuance or transfer of securities by the Corporation, or any Subsidiary has an aggregate fair market value of $1,000,000 or more.
Fifteenth
     (e) Nothing contained in this Article shall be construed to relieve any Interested Stockholder from any fiduciary obligation imposed by law.
Fifteenth
     Notwithstanding any other provision of this Charter or Act of Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Corporation (and in addition to any other vote that may be required by law, this Charter or Act of Incorporation by the By-Laws), the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of the capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (considered for this purpose as one class) shall be required to amend, alter or repeal any provision of Articles or of this Charter or Act of Incorporation.
Sixteenth:
Fifth, Thirteenth, Fifteenth
Sixteenth
     
Seventeenth:
     (a) a Director of this Corporation shall not be liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a Director, except to the extent such exemption from liability or limitation thereof is not permitted under the Delaware General Corporation Laws as the same exists or may hereafter be amended.
     (b) Any repeal or modification of the foregoing paragraph shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a Director of the Corporation existing hereunder with respect to any act or omission occurring prior to the time of such repeal or modification."
 
 
     Section 1. . The annual meeting of stockholders shall be held on the third Thursday in April each year at the principal office at the Company or at such other date, time or place as may be designated by resolution by the Board of Directors.
Annual Meeting
     Section 2. . Special meetings of stockholders may be called at any time by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President.
Special Meetings
     Section 3. . Notice of all meetings of the stockholders shall be given by mailing to each stockholder at least ten (10) days before said meeting, at his last known address, a written or printed notice fixing the time and place of such meeting.
Notice
     Section 4. . A majority in the amount of the capital stock of the Company issued and outstanding on the record date, as herein determined, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of stockholders for the transaction of any business, but the holders of a smaller number of shares may adjourn from time to time, without further notice, until a quorum is secured. At each annual or special meeting of stockholders, each stockholder shall be entitled to one vote, either in person or by proxy, for each share of stock registered in the stockholder's name on the books of the Company on the record date for any such meeting as determined herein.
Quorum
     Section 1. . The affairs and business of the Company shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors.
Management
     Section 2. . The authorized number of directors that shall constitute the Board of Directors shall be fixed from time to time by or pursuant to a resolution passed by a majority of the Board of Directors within the parameters set by the Charter of the Company. No more than two directors may also be employees of the Company or any affiliate thereof.
Number
     Section 3. . In addition to any other provisions of these Bylaws, to be qualified for nomination for election or appointment to the Board of Directors, a person must have not attained the age of sixty-nine years at the time of such election or appointment, provided however, the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee may waive such qualification as to a particular candidate otherwise qualified to serve as a director upon a good faith determination by such committee that such a waiver is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. The Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer shall not be qualified to continue to serve as directors upon the termination of their service in those offices for any reason.
Qualification
 
     Section 4. . The Board of Directors shall meet at the principal office of the Company or elsewhere in its discretion at such times to be determined by a majority of its members, or at the call of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President.
Meetings
     Section 5. . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President, and shall be called upon the written request of a majority of the directors.
Special Meetings
     Section 6. . A majority of the directors elected and qualified shall be necessary to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board of Directors.
Quorum
     Section 7. . Written notice shall be sent by mail to each director of any special meeting of the Board of Directors, and of any change in the time or place of any regular meeting, stating the time and place of such meeting, which shall be mailed not less than two days before the time of holding such meeting.
Notice
     Section 8. . In the event of the death, resignation, removal, inability to act or disqualification of any director, the Board of Directors, although less than a quorum, shall have the right to elect the successor who shall hold office for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the vacancy occurred, and until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified.
Vacancies
     Section 9. . The Board of Directors at its first meeting after its election by the stockholders shall appoint an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee and a Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and shall elect from its own members a Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer and a President, who may be the same person. The Board of Directors shall also elect at such meeting a Secretary and a Chief Financial Officer, who may be the same person, and may appoint at any time such committees as it may deem advisable. The Board of Directors may also elect at such meeting one or more Associate Directors. The Board of Directors, or a committee designated by the Board of Directors may elect or appoint such other officers as they may deem advisable.
Organization Meeting
     Section 10. . The Board of Directors may at any time remove, with or without cause, any member of any committee appointed by it or any associate director or officer elected by it and may appoint or elect his successor.
Removal
     Section 11. . The Board of Directors may designate an officer to be in charge of such departments or divisions of the Company as it may deem advisable.
Responsibility of Officers
     Section 12. . The Board of Directors or any committee of the Board of Directors may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee, as the case may be, by conference telephone, video facilities or other communications equipment. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all of the members of the Board of Directors or the committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of the Board of Directors or such committee.
Participation in Meetings
 
     Section 1.
Audit Committee.
          (A) The Audit Committee shall be composed of not more than five (5) members, who shall be selected by the Board of Directors from its own members, none of whom shall be an officer or employee of the Company, and shall hold office at the pleasure of the Board.
          (B) The Audit Committee shall have general supervision over the Audit Services Division in all matters however subject to the approval of the Board of Directors; it shall consider all matters brought to its attention by the officer in charge of the Audit Services Division, review all reports of examination of the Company made by any governmental agency or such independent auditor employed for that purpose, and make such recommendations to the Board of Directors with respect thereto or with respect to any other matters pertaining to auditing the Company as it shall deem desirable.
          (C) The Audit Committee shall meet whenever and wherever its Chairperson, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a majority of the Committee's members shall deem it to be proper for the transaction of its business. A majority of the Committee's members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The acts of the majority at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall constitute action by the Committee.
     Section 2.
Compensation Committee.
          (A) The Compensation Committee shall be composed of not more than five (5) members, who shall be selected by the Board of Directors from its own members, none of whom shall be an officer or employee of the Company, and shall hold office at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.
          (B) The Compensation Committee shall in general advise upon all matters of policy concerning compensation, including salaries and employee benefits.
          (C) The Compensation Committee shall meet whenever and wherever its Chairperson, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a majority of the Committee's members shall deem it to be proper for the transaction of its business. A majority of the Committee's members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The acts of the majority at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall constitute action by the Committee.
     Section 3.
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
          (A) The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall be composed of not more than five members, who shall be selected by the Board of Directors from its own members, none of whom shall be an officer or employee of the Company, and shall hold office at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.
          (B) The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall provide counsel and make recommendations to the Chairman of the Board and the full Board with respect to the performance of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, candidates for membership on the Board of
 
Directors and its committees, matters of corporate governance, succession planning for the Company's executive management and significant shareholder relations issues.
          (C) The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall meet whenever and wherever its Chairperson, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or a majority of the Committee's members shall deem it to be proper for the transaction of its business. A majority of the Committee's members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The acts of the majority at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall constitute action by the Committee.
     Section 4. . The Company may have such other committees with such powers as the Board may designate from time to time by resolution or by an amendment to these Bylaws.
Other Committees
     Section 5.
Associate Directors.
          (A) Any person who has served as a director may be elected by the Board of Directors as an associate director, to serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.
          (B) Associate directors shall be entitled to attend all meetings of directors and participate in the discussion of all matters brought to the Board of Directors, but will not have a right to vote.
     Section 6. In the absence or disqualification of any member of any committee created under Article III of these Bylaws, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
Absence or Disqualification of Any Member of a Committee.
     Section 1. . The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and shall have such further authority and powers and shall perform such duties the Board of Directors may assign to him from time to time.
Chairman of the Board
     Section 2. . The Chief Executive Officer shall have the powers and duties pertaining to the office of Chief Executive Officer conferred or imposed upon him by statute, incident to his office or as the Board of Directors may assign to him from time to time. In the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer shall have the powers and duties of the Chairman of the Board.
Chief Executive Officer
     Section 3. . The President shall have the powers and duties pertaining to the office of the President conferred or imposed upon him by statute, incident to his office or as the Board of Directors may assign to him from time to time. In the absence of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, the President shall have the powers and duties of the Chairman of the Board.
President
     Section 4. . The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President, as designated by the Board of Directors, shall carry into effect all legal directions of the Board of Directors and shall at all times exercise general supervision over the interest, affairs and operations of the Company and perform all duties incident to his office.
Duties
 
     Section 5. . There may be one or more Vice Presidents, however denominated by the Board of Directors, who may at any time perform all of the duties of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and/or the President and such other powers and duties incident to their respective offices or as the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President or the officer in charge of the department or division to which they are assigned may assign to them from time to time.
Vice Presidents
     Section 6. . The Secretary shall attend to the giving of notice of meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors, as well as the committees thereof, to the keeping of accurate minutes of all such meetings, recording the same in the minute books of the Company and in general notifying the Board of Directors of material matters affecting the Company on a timely basis. In addition to the other notice requirements of these Bylaws and as may be practicable under the circumstances, all such notices shall be in writing and mailed well in advance of the scheduled date of any such meeting. He shall have custody of the corporate seal, affix the same to any documents requiring such corporate seal, attest the same and perform other duties incident to his office.
Secretary
     Section 7. . The Chief Financial Officer shall have general supervision over all assets and liabilities of the Company. He shall be custodian of and responsible for all monies, funds and valuables of the Company and for the keeping of proper records of the evidence of property or indebtedness and of all transactions of the Company. He shall have general supervision of the expenditures of the Company and periodically shall report to the Board of Directors the condition of the Company, and perform such other duties incident to his office or as the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President may assign to him from time to time.
Chief Financial Officer
     Section 8. . There may be a Controller who shall exercise general supervision over the internal operations of the Company, including accounting, and shall render to the Board of Directors or the Audit Committee at appropriate times a report relating to the general condition and internal operations of the Company and perform other duties incident to his office.
Controller
     There may be one or more subordinate accounting or controller officers however denominated, who may perform the duties of the Controller and such duties as may be prescribed by the Controller.
     Section 9. . The officer designated by the Board of Directors to be in charge of the Audit Services Division of the Company, with such title as the Board of Directors shall prescribe, shall report to and be directly responsible to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors.
Audit Officers
     There shall be an Auditor and there may be one or more Audit Officers, however denominated, who may perform all the duties of the Auditor and such duties as may be prescribed by the officer in charge of the Audit Services Division.
     Section 10. . There may be one or more officers, subordinate in rank to all Vice Presidents with such functional titles as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors, who shall ex officio hold the office of Assistant Secretary of the Company and who may perform such duties as may be prescribed by the officer in charge of the department or division to which they are assigned.
Other Officers
 
     Section 11. . The powers and duties of all other officers of the Company shall be those usually pertaining to their respective offices, subject to the direction of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President and the officer in charge of the department or division to which they are assigned.
Powers and Duties of Other Officers
     Section 12. . Any one or more offices of the Company may be held by the same person, except that (A) no individual may hold more than one of the offices of Chief Financial Officer, Controller or Audit Officer and (B) none of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President may hold any office mentioned in Section 12(A).
Number of Offices
     Section 1. . Shares of stock shall be transferable on the books of the Company and a transfer book shall be kept in which all transfers of stock shall be recorded.
Transfer
     Section 2. . Every holder of stock shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by or in the name of the Company by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President or a Vice President, and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Company, certifying the number of shares owned by him in the Company. The corporate seal affixed thereto, and any of or all the signatures on the certificate, may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Company with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue. Duplicate certificates of stock shall be issued only upon giving such security as may be satisfactory to the Board of Directors.
Certificates
     Section 3. . The Board of Directors is authorized to fix in advance a record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, any meeting of stockholders and any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend, or to any allotment of rights, or to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of capital stock, or in connection with obtaining the consent of stockholders for any purpose, which record date shall not be more than 60 nor less than 10 days preceding the date of any meeting of stockholders or the date for the payment of any dividend, or the date for the allotment of rights, or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of capital stock shall go into effect, or a date in connection with obtaining such consent.
Record Date
     The corporate seal of the Company shall be in the following form:
Between two concentric circles the words "Wilmington Trust Company" within the inner circle the words "Wilmington, Delaware."
     The fiscal year of the Company shall be the calendar year.
 
     The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or any Vice President, however denominated by the Board of Directors, shall have full power and authority to enter into, make, sign, execute, acknowledge and/or deliver and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary shall have full power and authority to attest and affix the corporate seal of the Company to any and all deeds, conveyances, assignments, releases, contracts, agreements, bonds, notes, mortgages and all other instruments incident to the business of this Company or in acting as executor, administrator, guardian, trustee, agent or in any other fiduciary or representative capacity by any and every method of appointment or by whatever person, corporation, court officer or authority in the State of Delaware, or elsewhere, without any specific authority, ratification, approval or confirmation by the Board of Directors, and any and all such instruments shall have the same force and validity as though expressly authorized by the Board of Directors.
     Directors and associate directors of the Company, other than salaried officers of the Company, shall be paid such reasonable honoraria or fees for attending meetings of the Board of Directors as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine. Directors and associate directors who serve as members of committees, other than salaried employees of the Company, shall be paid such reasonable honoraria or fees for services as members of committees as the Board of Directors shall from time to time determine and directors and associate directors may be authorized by the Company to perform such special services as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine in accordance with any guidelines the Board of Directors may adopt for such services, and shall be paid for such special services so performed reasonable compensation as may be determined by the Board of Directors.
     Section 1. . The Company shall indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as it presently exists or may hereafter be amended, any person who was or is made or is threatened to be made a party or is otherwise involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (a "proceeding") by reason of the fact that he, or a person for whom he is the legal representative, is or was a director or associate director of the Company, a member of an advisory board the Board of Directors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries may appoint from time to time or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee, fiduciary or agent of another corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, enterprise or non-profit entity that is not a subsidiary or affiliate of the Company, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, against all liability and loss suffered and expenses reasonably incurred by such person. The Company shall be required to indemnify such a person in connection with a proceeding initiated by such person only if the proceeding was authorized by the Board of Directors.
Persons Covered
     The Company may indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as it presently exists or may hereafter be amended, any person who was or is made or threatened to be made a party or is otherwise involved in any proceeding by reason of the fact that he, or a person for whom he is the
 
legal representative, is or was an officer, employee or agent of the Company or a director, officer, employee or agent of a subsidiary or affiliate of the Company, against all liability and loss suffered and expenses reasonably incurred by such person. The Company may indemnify any such person in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors.
     Section 2. . The Company shall pay the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding involving a person who is or may be indemnified pursuant to Section 1 in advance of its final disposition, provided, however, that the payment of expenses incurred by such a person in advance of the final disposition of the proceeding shall be made only upon receipt of an undertaking by that person to repay all amounts advanced if it should be ultimately determined that the person is not entitled to be indemnified under this Article 10 or otherwise.
Advance of Expenses
     Section 3. . If a claim under this Article 10 for (A) payment of expenses or (B) indemnification by a director, associate director, member of an advisory board the Board of Directors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries may appoint from time to time or a person who is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee, fiduciary or agent of another corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, enterprise or nonprofit entity that is not a subsidiary or affiliate of the Company, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, is not paid in full within sixty days after a written claim therefor has been received by the Company, the claimant may file suit to recover the unpaid amount of such claim and, if successful in whole or in part, shall be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting such claim. In any such action, the Company shall have the burden of proving that the claimant was not entitled to the requested indemnification or payment of expenses under applicable law.
Certain Rights
     Section 4. . The rights conferred on any person by this Article 10 shall not be exclusive of any other rights which such person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Charter or Act of Incorporation, these Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
Non-Exclusive
     Section 5. . The Company's obligation, if any, to indemnify any person who was or is serving at its request as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or nonprofit entity shall be reduced by any amount such person may collect as indemnification from such other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or nonprofit entity.
Reduction of Amount
     Section 6. . Any amendment, repeal or modification of the foregoing provisions of this Article 10 shall not adversely affect any right or protection hereunder of any person in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to the time of such amendment, repeal or modification.
Effect of Modification
     These Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed, in whole or in part, and any new Bylaw or Bylaws adopted at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors by a vote of a majority of all the members of the Board of Directors then in office.
 
     Whenever used in these Bylaws, the singular shall include the plural, the plural shall include the singular unless the context requires otherwise and the use of either gender shall include both genders.
 
     Pursuant to Section 321(b) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, Wilmington Trust Company hereby consents that reports of examinations by Federal, State, Territorial or District authorities may be furnished by such authorities to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request therefor.
 
This form is intended to assist state nonmember banks and savings banks with state publication requirements. It has not been approved by any state banking authorities. Refer to your appropriate state banking authorities for your state publication requirements.
REPORT OF CONDITION
Consolidating domestic subsidiaries of the
in the State of , at the close of business on September 30, 2006.
DELAWARE
CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE
 


