FILE:USB/USB-8K-20061222164247.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On December 21, 2006, U.S. Bancorp. (the "Company") filed a Certificate of Designation with the Delaware Secretary of State for the purpose of amending its Restated Certificate of Incorporation to establish the preferences, limitations, voting powers and relative rights of its Series C Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference of $100,000 per share (the "Series C Preferred Stock"). The Certificate of Designation became effective upon filing with the Delaware Secretary of State on December 21, 2006. A copy of the Certificate of Designation is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated herein by reference
.
Item 8.01 Other Events
On December 22, 2006, USB Realty Corp. ("USB Realty"), an indirect subsidiary of U.S. Bank National Association ("U.S. Bank"), a national banking association and the principal bank subsidiary of the Company, closed the sale of $500,000,000 of Fixed-to-Floating Rate Exchangeable Non-Cumulative Perpetual Series A Preferred Stock, liquidation preference $100,000 per security (the "Series A preferred securities"). In connection with the offering of the Series A preferred securities, an indirect subsidiary of U.S. Bank conveyed to USB Realty a portfolio of assets consisting of mortgage-backed securities in exchange for 100% of the Common Stock of USB Realty and the net proceeds from the offering of the Series A preferred securities.
The Series A preferred securities were offered and sold in reliance on Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, only to persons who are "qualified institutional buyers" within the meaning of Rule 144A and "qualified purchasers" within the meaning of Section 2(a)(51) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. The proceeds from USB Realty's offering of the Series A preferred securities will be available to U.S. Bank and its affiliates for general corporate purposes.
The Series A preferred securities do not have a stated maturity date. The Series A preferred securities are not redeemable at the option of the holders. Subject to the prior approval of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "OCC"), if then so required, the Series A preferred securities will be redeemable, at the option of USB Realty, subject, in certain circumstances to USB Realty's obligation to make certain "make-whole" payments.
If the OCC so directs following the occurrence of a Conditional Exchange Event (defined below) each Series A preferred security will be automatically exchanged for a share of Series C Preferred Stock. "Conditional Exchange Event" means: (a) U.S. Bank becoming "undercapitalized" under the OCC's "prompt corrective action" regulations, (b) U.S. Bank being placed into conservatorship or receivership or (c) the OCC, in its sole discretion, directing such exchange in anticipation of U.S. Bank becoming "undercapitalized" in the near term or taking supervisory action that limits the payment of dividends, as applicable, by U.S. Bank, and in connection therewith, directs such exchange.
U.S. Bank has received confirmation from the OCC that the minority interest associated with the Series A preferred securities will qualify as Tier 1 bank regulatory capital of U.S. Bank. The Company expects to treat the minority interest associated with the Series A preferred securities as Tier 1 capital at the Company level.
On December 22, 2006, in connection with the closing of the Series A preferred securities offering, the Company entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the "RCC"), whereby the Company agreed for the benefit of certain
Table of Contents
of its debtholders named therein that neither it nor any of its subsidiaries would purchase or redeem the Series A preferred securities unless such purchases or redemptions are made from the proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth in the RCC. A copy of the RCC is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) .
Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 22, 2006
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 3.1
     U.S. Bancorp, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the ""), does hereby certify that:
Corporation
     1. On December 12, 2006, the Credit and Finance Committee (the "") of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the ""), pursuant to authority conferred upon the Committee by resolutions of the Board adopted at a meeting duly convened and held on January 21, 2003, and by Section 141(c)(2) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, duly adopted resolutions by unanimous written consent establishing the terms of the Corporation's Series C Non- Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, $100,000 liquidation preference per share (the ""), and authorized a sub-committee of the Committee (the "") to act on behalf of the Committee in establishing the number of authorized shares and the dividend rate for the Series C Preferred Stock.
Committee
Board
Series C Preferred Stock
Subcommittee
     2. Thereafter, on December 18, 2006, the Subcommittee duly adopted the following resolution by written consent:
     ", that the designations, and certain other preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Series C Preferred Stock, including those established by the Committee and the dividend rate established hereby, are as set forth in hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference."
RESOLVED
Exhibit A
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designations is executed on behalf of the Corporation by its Executive Vice President and Treasurer this day of December, 2006.
21st
 
          . The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be Series C Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (hereinafter referred to as the ""). Each share of Series C Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series C Preferred Stock. Series C Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
Section 1. Designation
Series C Preferred Stock
          . The number of authorized shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be five thousand (5,000). Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series C Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such increase or reduction, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series C Preferred Stock.
Section 2. Number of Shares
          . As used herein with respect to Series C Preferred Stock:
Section 3. Definitions
          "" means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York.
Business Day
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.
Depositary Company
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Dividend Payment Date
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Dividend Period
          "" means The Depositary Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.
DTC
 
          "" means the Corporation's common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized over which Series C Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Junior Stock
          "" means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars) in London, England.
London Banking Day
          "" means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks on a par with Series C Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Parity Stock
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7 hereof.
Preferred Director
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.
Series C Preferred Stock
          "" means the display page so designated on the Moneyline/Telerate Service (or such other page as may replace that page on that service, or such other service as may be nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying rates or prices comparable to the London Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar deposits).
Telerate Page 3750
          "" means, with respect to any Dividend Period beginning on or after January 15, 2012 and each Dividend Period thereafter, the offered rate (expressed as a percentage ) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period that appears on Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. If such rate does not appear on Telerate Page 3750, Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. U.S. Bank National Association, or such other bank as may be acting as calculation agent for the Corporation, will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000. However, if fewer than three banks selected by the Corporation to provide quotations are not quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period, the most recent rate that could have been determined in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph had Series C Preferred Stock been outstanding. The calculation agent's establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend Period will be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation, will be made
Three-Month LIBOR
per annum
 
available to any holder of Series C Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.
          .
Section 4. Dividends
               . Holders of Series C Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share of Series C Preferred Stock, and no more, payable quarterly in arrears on each January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15; , , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a ""). The period from and including the date of issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a "." Dividends on each share of Series C Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share (i) to but not including the Dividend Payment Date in January 2012 at a rate equal to 6.091%, and (ii) thereafter for each related Dividend Period at a rate equal to Three-Month LIBOR plus 1.147%.
(a) Rate
provided
however
Dividend Payment Date
Dividend Period
per annum
per annum
               . Dividends on shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series C Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series C Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series C Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation.
(b) Non-Cumulative Dividends
               . So long as any share of Series C Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to offers to purchase all, or a portion, of the Series C Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series C Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of Series C Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of Series C Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock shall be declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share
(c) Priority of Dividends
pro rata
pro rata
 
will bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current Dividend Period per share on Series C Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends, including any accumulations on Parity Stock, bear to each other. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series C Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. If the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide, or cause to be provided, written notice to the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock prior to such date. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available therefor, and the shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.
          .
Section 5. Liquidation Rights
               . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series C Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series C Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation's depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share, plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holder of Series C Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.
(a) Liquidation
               . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends to all holders of Series C Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series C Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends of Series C Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.
(b) Partial Payment
pro rata
               . If the liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends has been paid in full to all holders of Series C Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.
(c) Residual Distributions
               . For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
(d) Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
 
          .
Section 6. Redemption
               . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem in whole or in part the shares of Series C Preferred Stock at the time outstanding at any time upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be $100,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid.
(a) Optional Redemption
               . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series C Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC. Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series C Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series C Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series C Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed by such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.
(b) Notice of Redemption
               . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series C Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series C Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either from the holders of record of Series C Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series C Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.
(c) Partial Redemption
pro rata
               . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the "") in trust for the benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders
(d) Effectiveness of Redemption
pro rata
Depositary Company
pro rata
 
thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest.
          . The holders of Series C Preferred Stock will have no voting rights and will not be entitled to elect any directors, except as expressly provided by law and except that:
Section 7. Voting Rights
               .
(a) Special Voting Right
          . If and whenever dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(a) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal, as to any class or series, to at least six quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not), the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rightswhether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation's securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series C Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends is a "".
(i) Voting Right
,
Preferred Director
          . The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series C Preferred Stock and any other class or series of our stock that ranks on parity with Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid, called as provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(a)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series C Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation's principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders),
(ii) Election
 
call a special meeting of the holders of Series C Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(a)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.
          . Notice for a special meeting will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation's by-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series C Preferred Stock may (at our expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(a)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of our stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(a)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rightswhether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders.
(iii) Notice for Special Meeting
,
          . Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series C Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for three consecutive Dividend Periods and full dividends have been paid or declared and set aside for payment for the fourth consecutive Dividend Period, then the right of the holders of Series C Preferred Stock to elect such additional two directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods). The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate and the number of directors constituting our board of directors will be reduced accordingly. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series C Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rightswhether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 7(a).
(iv) Termination; Removal
,
          The holders of Series C Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such Series C Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.
Section 8. Conversion.
          . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the vote of the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or, subject to the voting rights granted in Section 7(a), any class of securities ranking senior to the Series C Preferred Stock as to dividends
Section 9. Rank
 
and the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
          . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series C Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine; , , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.
Section 10. Repurchase
provided
however
          . Shares of Series C Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series.
Section 11. Unissued or Reacquired Shares
          . Shares of Series C Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.
Section 12. No Sinking Fund

 
Exhibit 99.1
     , dated as of December 22, 2006 (this ""), by U.S. Bancorp, a Delaware corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the ""), in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder (as defined below).
Replacement Capital Covenant
Replacement Capital Covenant
Corporation
     A. On the date hereof, USB Realty Corp. (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation and an indirect subsidiary of U.S. Bank, a national banking association and an indirect subsidiary of the Corporation, is issuing 5,000 shares of its Fixed-to-Floating Rate Exchangeable Non-cumulative Perpetual Series A Preferred Stock, liquidation preference $100,000 per security and $500,000,000 in the aggregate (the "Series A Preferred Securities") to investors pursuant to an Offering Circular dated December 18, 2006 (the "Offering Circular").
     B. If an "Exchange Event," as defined and described in the Offering Circular, occurs, and the OCC (as defined hereinafter) so directs, then the Series A Preferred Securities will be automatically exchanged for a like amount of Series C Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock of the Corporation (the "Series C Preferred Stock").
     C. This Replacement Capital Covenant is the "Replacement Capital Covenant" referred to in the Offering Circular.
     D. The Corporation, in entering into and disclosing the content of this Replacement Capital Covenant in the manner provided below, is doing so with the intent that the covenants provided for in this Replacement Capital Covenant be enforceable by each Covered Debtholder and the Corporation be estopped from disregarding the covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
     E. The Corporation acknowledges that reliance by each Covered Debtholder upon the covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant is reasonable and foreseeable by the Corporation and that, were the Corporation to disregard its covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant, each Covered Debtholder would have sustained an injury as a result of its reliance on such covenants.
     the Corporation hereby covenants and agrees as follows in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder.
NOW, THEREFORE,
     SECTION 1. . Capitalized terms used in this Replacement Capital Covenant (including the Recitals), have the meanings set forth in Schedule I hereto.
Definitions
     SECTION 2. . The Corporation hereby promises and covenants to and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder that the Corporation or any Subsidiary of the Corporation will redeem or purchase any Series A Preferred Securities or Series C Preferred Stock only (a) if and to the extent that the total redemption or purchase price therefor is equal to or less than the sum of:
Limitations on Redemption and Purchase of Securities
     (A) 133.33% of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds received by the Corporation and its Subsidiaries since the most recent Measurement Date from the
 
issuance and sale of Common Stock and rights to purchase Common Stock to Persons other than the Corporation and its Subsidiaries, plus
     (B) 100% of the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds received by the Corporation and its Subsidiaries since the most recent Measurement Date from the issuance and sale of Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, Debt Exchangeable for Equity, Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, REIT Preferred Securities and Qualifying Capital Securities to Persons other than the Corporation and its Subsidiaries;
and (b) if the Corporation has obtained the prior approval of the OCC, in the case of the Series A Preferred Securities, or of the Federal Reserve, in the case of the Series C Preferred Stock, if such approval is then required.
     SECTION 3. .
Covered Debt
     (a) The Corporation represents and warrants that the Initial Covered Debt is Eligible Debt.
     (b) On or during the 30-day period immediately preceding any Redesignation Date with respect to the Covered Debt then in effect, the Corporation shall identify the series of Eligible Debt that will become the Covered Debt on and after such Redesignation Date in accordance with the following procedures:
     (i) the Corporation shall identify each series of its then outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt;
     (ii) if only one series of the Corporation's then outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed is Eligible Debt, such series shall become the Covered Debt commencing on the related Redesignation Date;
     (iii) if the Corporation has more than one outstanding series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt, then the Corporation shall identify the series that has the latest occurring final maturity date as of the date the Corporation is applying the procedures in this Section 3(b) and such series shall become the Covered Debt on the related Redesignation Date;
     (iv) if the Corporation has no outstanding series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt but U.S. Bank is a Subsidiary of the Corporation and U.S. Bank has only one outstanding series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt, such series shall become the Covered Debt commencing on the related Redesignation Date;
     (v) if the Corporation has no outstanding series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt, but U.S. Bank is a Subsidiary of the Corporation and U.S. Bank has more than one outstanding series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt, then the Corporation shall identify the series that has the latest occurring final maturity date as of the date the Corporation is applying the
 
procedures in this Section 3(b) and such series shall become the Covered Debt on the related Redesignation Date;
     (vi) the series of outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is determined to be Covered Debt pursuant to clause (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) above shall be the Covered Debt for purposes of this Replacement Capital Covenant for the period commencing on the related Redesignation Date and continuing to but not including the Redesignation Date as of which a new series of outstanding long-term indebtedness is next determined to be the Covered Debt pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Section 3(b); and
     (vii) in connection with such identification of a new series of Covered Debt, the Corporation shall give the notice provided for in Section 3(d) within the time frame provided for in such section.
     (c) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Replacement Capital Covenant, if on any Redesignation Date the Corporation has then outstanding one or more series of Eligible Subordinated Debt, a series of Eligible Subordinated Debt shall be identified as Covered Debt in accordance with Section 3(b) and no Eligible Senior Debt shall then be Covered Debt.
     (d) . In order to give effect to the intent of the Corporation described in Recital D, the Corporation covenants that
Notice
     (i) simultaneously with the execution of this Replacement Capital Covenant or as soon as practicable after the date hereof, the Corporation shall (A) give notice to the Holders of the Initial Covered Debt, in the manner provided in the indenture relating to the Initial Covered Debt, of this Replacement Capital Covenant and the rights granted to such Holders hereunder and (B) file a copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant with the Commission as an exhibit to a Form 8-K under the Securities Exchange Act;
     (ii) so long as the Corporation is a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act, the Corporation shall include in each annual report filed with the Commission on Form 10-K under the Securities Exchange Act a description of the covenant set forth in Section 2 and identify the series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is Covered Debt as of the date such Form 10-K is filed with the Commission;
     (iii) if a series of the Corporation's or U.S. Bank's long-term indebtedness for money borrowed (A) becomes Covered Debt or (B) ceases to be Covered Debt, the Corporation shall give notice of such occurrence within 30 days to the holders of such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed in the manner provided for in the indenture, fiscal agency agreement or other instrument under which such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed was issued and report such change in a current report on Form 8-K including or incorporating by reference this Replacement Capital Covenant, and in the Corporation's next quarterly report on Form 10-Q or annual report on Form 10-K, as applicable;
 
     (iv) if, and only if, the Corporation ceases to be a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act, the Corporation shall post on its website the information otherwise required to be included in Securities Exchange Act filings pursuant to clauses (ii) and (iii) of this Section 3(d); and
     (v) promptly upon request by any Holder of Covered Debt, the Corporation shall provide such Holder with an executed copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant.
SECTION 4. .
Termination, Amendment and Waiver
     (a) The obligations of the Corporation pursuant to this Replacement Capital Covenant shall remain in full force and effect until the earlier date (the "") to occur of (i) the date, if any, on which the Holders of a majority by principal amount of the then-effective series of Covered Debt consent or agree in writing to the termination of this Replacement Capital Covenant and the obligations of the Corporation hereunder and (ii) the date on which neither the Corporation nor U.S. Bank has any series of outstanding Eligible Senior Debt or Eligible Subordinated Debt (in each case without giving effect to the rating requirement in clause (ii) of the definition of each such term). From and after the Termination Date, the obligations of the Corporation pursuant to this Replacement Capital Covenant shall be of no further force or effect.
Termination Date
     (b) This Replacement Capital Covenant may be amended or supplemented from time to time by a written instrument signed by the Corporation with the consent of the Holders of a majority by principal amount of the then-effective series of Covered Debt, provided that this Replacement Capital Covenant may be amended or supplemented from time to time by a written instrument signed only by the Corporation (and without the consent of the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt) if (i) the effect of such amendment or supplement is solely to impose additional restrictions on the ability of the Corporation or any Subsidiary of the Corporation to repay, redeem or purchase any Series A Preferred Securities or Series C Preferred Stock in any circumstance or (ii) such amendment or supplement is not adverse to the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt and an officer of the Corporation has delivered, or caused to be delivered, to the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt in the manner provided for in the indenture, fiscal agency agreement or other instrument with respect to such Covered Debt a written certificate stating that, in his or her determination, such amendment or supplement is not adverse to the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt.
     (c) For purposes of Sections 4(a) and 4(b), the Holders whose consent or agreement is required to terminate, amend or supplement the obligations of the Corporation under this Replacement Capital Covenant shall be the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt as of a record date established by the Corporation that is not more than 30 days prior to the date on which the Corporation proposes that such termination, amendment or supplement becomes effective.
     SECTION 5.
. Miscellaneous
 
     (a)
This Replacement Capital Covenant shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
     (b) This Replacement Capital Covenant shall be binding upon the Corporation and its successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of the Covered Debtholders as they exist from time-to-time (it being understood and agreed by the Corporation that any Person who is a Covered Debtholder at the time such Person initiates a claim or proceeding to enforce its rights under this Replacement Capital Covenant after the Corporation has violated its covenants in Section 2 and before the series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed held by such Person is no longer Covered Debt, such Person's rights under this Replacement Capital Covenant shall not terminate by reason of such series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed no longer being Covered Debt). Except as specifically provided herein, this Replacement Capital Covenant shall have no other beneficiaries and no other Persons are entitled to rely on this Replacement Capital Covenant.
     (c) All demands, notices, requests and other communications to the Corporation under this Replacement Capital Covenant shall be deemed to have been duly given and made if in writing and (i) if served by personal delivery upon the Corporation, on the day so delivered (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), (ii) if delivered by registered post or certified mail, return receipt requested, or sent to the Corporation by a national or international courier service, on the date of receipt by the Corporation (or, if such date of receipt is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), or (iii) if sent by telecopier, on the day telecopied, or if not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day, provided that the telecopy is promptly confirmed by telephone confirmation thereof, and in each case to the Corporation at the address set forth below, or at such other address as the Corporation may thereafter notify the Covered Debtholders or post on its website as the address for notices under this Replacement Capital Covenant:
U.S. Bancorp 800 Nicollet Mall Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402 Attention: Treasury Department Facsimile No: (612) 303-1338
 
     , the Corporation has caused this Replacement Capital Covenant to be executed by its duly authorized officer, as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
     "means, with respect to any securities or combination of securities (together in this definition, "such securities"), provisions in the related transaction documents requiring the Corporation to issue (or use commercially reasonable efforts to issue) one or more types of APM Qualifying Securities raising eligible proceeds at least equal to the deferred Distributions on such securities and apply the proceeds to pay unpaid Distributions on such securities, commencing on the earlier of (x) the first Distribution Date after commencement of a deferral period on which the Corporation pays current Distributions on such securities and (y) the fifth anniversary of the commencement of such deferral period, and that
Alternative Payment Mechanism"
     (a) provide that "eligible proceeds" include, for purposes of such Alternative Payment Mechanism, the net proceeds (after underwriters' or placement agents' fees, commissions or discounts and other expenses relating to the issuance or sale of the relevant securities, where applicable, and including the fair market value of property received by the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries as consideration for such securities) that the Corporation has received during the 180 days prior to the related Distribution Date from the issuance of APM Qualifying Securities, up to the Preferred Cap (as defined in paragraph (f), below) in the case of APM Qualifying Securities that are Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock;
     (b) permit the Corporation to pay current Distributions on any Distribution Date out of any source of funds but (x) require the Corporation to pay deferred Distributions only out of eligible proceeds and (y) prohibit the Corporation from paying deferred Distributions out of any source of funds other than eligible proceeds, unless (if the Corporation elects to so provide in the terms of such securities) the Primary Federal Bank Regulatory Agency directs otherwise;
     (c) if deferral of Distributions continues for more than one year, require the Corporation not to redeem or repurchase any securities of the Corporation that on a bankruptcy or liquidation of the Corporation rank pari passu with or junior to such securities until at least one year after all deferred Distributions have been paid;
     (d) notwithstanding the foregoing provision, if the Primary Federal Bank Regulatory Agency disapproves the issuer's sale of APM Qualifying Securities, may (if the Corporation elects to so provide in the term of such securities) permit the Corporation to pay deferred Distributions from any source without a breach of its obligations under the transaction documents;
     (e) if the Primary Federal Bank Regulatory Agency does not disapprove the Corporation's issuance and sale of APM Qualifying Securities but disapproves the use of the proceeds thereof to pay deferred Distributions, may (if the Corporation elects to so provide in the terms of such securities) permit the Corporation to use such proceeds for
 
other purposes and to continue to defer Distributions without a breach of its obligations under the transaction documents; and
     (f) with respect to "caps" on the Corporation's obligation or right to issue (or use commercially reasonable efforts to issue) APM Qualifying Securities to settle deferred Distributions:
     (i) limit the obligation of the Corporation to issue Common Stock or rights to purchase Common Stock pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism (including at any point in time from all prior issuances thereof pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism for the relevant deferral period) to settle deferred Distributions attributable to the first five years of any deferral period to an amount not exceeding 2% of the product of the average of the current stock market prices of the Common Stock on the ten consecutive trading days ending on the fourth trading day immediately preceding the date of issuance multiplied by the total number of issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock as of the date of the Corporation's most recent publicly available consolidated financial statements (the "Common Cap"), provided (and it being understood) that (x) once the Corporation reaches the Common Cap, until the Common Cap ceases to apply the Corporation will not be required to issue more Common Stock or rights to purchase Common Stock under the Alternative Payment Mechanism with respect to deferred Distributions attributable to the first five years of a deferral period even if the amount referred to in this subclause (i) subsequently increases because of a subsequent increase in the current market price of Common Stock or the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock, and (y) the Common Cap shall cease to apply to such deferral period by a date (as specified in the related transaction documents) which shall be not later than the ninth anniversary of the commencement of such deferral period; and
     (ii) limit the obligation or right of the Corporation to issue Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism (including at any point in time from all prior issuances thereof pursuant to such Alternative Payment Mechanism) to settle deferred Distributions to an amount not exceeding 25% of the initial principal or stated amount of the securities that are the subject of the related Alternative Payment Mechanism (the "Preferred Cap");
     provided (and it being understood) that:
     (a) the Corporation shall not be obligated to issue (or use commercially reasonable efforts to issue) APM Qualifying Securities for so long as a Market Disruption Event has occurred and is continuing;
     (b) if, due to a Market Disruption Event or otherwise, the Corporation is able to raise and apply some, but not all, of the eligible proceeds necessary to pay all deferred Distributions on any Distribution Date, the Corporation will apply any available eligible proceeds to pay accrued and unpaid Distributions on the applicable Distribution Date in chronological order subject to the Common Cap and Preferred Cap, as applicable; and
 
     (c) if the Corporation has outstanding more than one class or series of securities under which it is obligated to sell a type of APM Qualifying Securities and apply some part of the proceeds to the payment of deferred Distributions, then on any date and for any period the amount of net proceeds received by the Corporation from those sales and available for payment of deferred Distributions on such securities shall be applied to such securities on a pro rata basis in proportion to the total amounts that are due on such securities, or on such other basis as the Primary Federal Bank Regulatory Agency may approve.
     "" means, with respect to an Alternative Payment Mechanism, one or more of the following (as designated in the transaction documents for the Qualifying Capital Securities that include an Alternative Payment Mechanism or Debt Exchangeable for Equity):
APM Qualifying Securities
(A) Common Stock;
(B) rights to purchase Common Stock; or
(C) Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock;
      (and it being understood) that if the APM Qualifying Securities for any Alternative Payment Mechanism include both Common Stock and rights to purchase Common Stock, such Alternative Payment Mechanism may permit, but need not require, the Corporation to issue rights to purchase Common Stock.
provided
     "" means each day other than (i) a Saturday or Sunday or (ii) a day on which banking institutions in the City of New York are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.
Business Day
     "" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
     "" means common stock of the Corporation (including treasury shares of common stock and shares of common stock issued pursuant to the Corporation's dividend reinvestment plan and employee benefit plans).
Common Stock
     has the meaning specified in Recital A.
"Company"
     "" has the meaning specified in the introduction to this instrument.
Corporation
     "" means (i) at the date of this Replacement Capital Covenant and continuing to but not including the first Redesignation Date, the Initial Covered Debt and (ii) thereafter, commencing with each Redesignation Date and continuing to but not including the next succeeding Redesignation Date, the Eligible Debt identified pursuant to Section 3(b) as the Covered Debt for such period.
Covered Debt
     "" means each Person (whether a Holder or a beneficial owner holding through a participant in a clearing agency) that buys, holds or sells long-term indebtedness for money borrowed of the Corporation or U.S. Bank during the period
Covered Debtholder
 
that such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed is Covered Debt; provided that a Person who has sold or disposed of all its right, title and interest in Covered Debt shall cease to be a Covered Debtholder at the time of such sale or disposition if, while such Person was an owner of Covered Debt, the Corporation has not breached or repudiated, or threatened to breach or repudiate, its obligations hereunder; and provided further that if the Corporation has breached or repudiated, or threatened to breach or repudiate, its obligation hereunder while such Person was an owner of Covered Debt, such Person shall continue to be a Covered Debtholder until the later of (i) one year after any such sale or other disposition or (ii) the termination of any legal proceeding brought by such Person before the date in clause (i) to enforce the obligations of the Corporation hereunder.
     " means a security or combination of securities (together in this definition, "such securities") that:
"Debt Exchangeable For Equity
     (i) gives the holder a beneficial interest in (a) subordinated debt securities of the Corporation that include a provision requiring the Corporation to issue (or use commercially reasonable efforts to issue) one or more types of APM Qualifying Securities raising proceeds at least equal to the deferred Distributions on such subordinated debt securities commencing not later than two years after initial issuance of such securities and that are the most junior subordinated debt of the Corporation (or rank pari passu with the most junior subordinated debt of the Corporation) and (b) a fractional interest in a stock purchase contract for a share of Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (in this definition, "preferred stock" of the Corporation);
     (ii) provides that the investors directly or indirectly grant to the Corporation a security interest in such subordinated debt securities and their proceeds (including any substitute collateral permitted under the transaction documents) to secure the investors' direct or indirect obligation to purchase preferred stock of the Corporation pursuant to such stock purchase contracts;
     (iii) includes a remarketing feature pursuant to which the subordinated debt of the Corporation is remarketed to new investors commencing not later than the first Distribution Date that is five years after the date of issuance of the security or earlier in the event of an early settlement event based on (a) the capital ratios of the Corporation, (b) the capital ratios of the Corporation as anticipated by the Primary Federal Bank Regulatory Agency, or (c) the dissolution of the issuer of such Debt Exchangeable for Equity;
     (iv) provides for the proceeds raised in the remarketing to be used to purchase preferred stock of the Corporation under the stock purchase contracts and, if there has not been a successful remarketing by the first Distribution Date that is six years after the date of issuance of such securities, provides that the stock purchase contracts will be settled by the Corporation foreclosing on its subordinated debt securities or other collateral directly or indirectly pledged by investors in the Debt Exchangeable for Equity;
     (v) includes a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant that will apply to such securities and to the preferred
 
stock of the Corporation, but will not include Debt Exchangeable for Equity in the definition of "Qualifying Capital Securities"; and
     (vi) after the issuance of such preferred stock of the Corporation, provides the holder of the security with a beneficial interest in such preferred stock of the Corporation.
     "" means any Subsidiary of the Corporation that is a depository institution within the meaning of 12 C.F.R.  204.2(m) and includes U.S. Bank.
Depository Institution Subsidiary
     "" means, as to any securities or combination of securities, the dates on which Distributions on such securities are scheduled to be made.
Distribution Date
     "" means, as to any securities or combination of securities, each period from and including a Distribution Date for such securities to but not including the next succeeding Distribution Date for such securities.
Distribution Period
     "" means, as to a security or combination of securities, dividends, interest or other income distributions to the holders thereof that are not Subsidiaries of the Corporation. For the avoidance of doubt, if the terms of any security or combination of securities provide for the accrual of declared but unpaid, or deferred, Distributions, such accrued amounts will be considered to be included within the term "Distributions".
Distributions
     "" means, at any time, Eligible Subordinated Debt or, if no Eligible Subordinated Debt is then outstanding, Eligible Senior Debt.
Eligible Debt
     "" means, at any time in respect of any issuer, each series of outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed of such issuer that (i) upon a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the issuer, ranks most senior among the issuer's then outstanding classes of indebtedness for money borrowed, (ii) is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO (provided that this clause shall apply on a Redesignation Date only if on such date the issuer has outstanding senior long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that satisfies the requirements of clauses (i), (iii) and (iv) that is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO), (iii) has an outstanding aggregate principal amount of not less than $100,000,000, (iv) was issued through or with the assistance of a commercial or investment banking firm or firms acting as underwriters, initial purchasers or placement or distribution agents, and (v) if issued by U.S. Bank, is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Corporation on (A) a subordinated basis or (B) if on the relevant Redesignation Date there is no outstanding debt of U.S. Bank meeting the other requirements set forth above and guaranteed by the Corporation on a subordinated basis but there is outstanding debt of U.S. Bank meeting such requirements and guaranteed on a senior basis, a senior basis. For purposes of this definition as applied to securities with a CUSIP number, each issuance of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that has (or, if such indebtedness is held by a trust or other intermediate entity established directly or indirectly by the issuer, the securities of such intermediate entity have) a separate CUSIP number shall be deemed to be a series of
Eligible Senior Debt
 
the issuer's long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is separate from each other series of such indebtedness.
     "" means, at any time in respect of any issuer, each series of the issuer's then outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that (i) upon a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the issuer, ranks subordinate to the issuer's then outstanding series of indebtedness for money borrowed that ranks most senior, (ii) is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO (provided that this clause (ii) shall apply on a Redesignation Date only if on such date the issuer has outstanding subordinated long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that satisfies the requirements in clauses (i), (iii) and (iv) that is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO), (iii) has an outstanding aggregate principal amount of not less than $100,000,000, and (iv) was issued through or with the assistance of a commercial or investment banking firm or firms acting as underwriters, initial purchasers or placement or distribution agents, and (v) if issued by U.S. Bank, is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Corporation on (A) a subordinated basis or (B) if on the relevant Redesignation Date there is no outstanding debt of U.S. Bank meeting the other requirements set forth above and guaranteed by the Corporation on a subordinated basis but there is outstanding debt of U.S. Bank meeting such requirements and guaranteed on a senior basis, a senior basis. For purposes of this definition as applied to securities with a CUSIP number, each issuance of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that has (or, if such indebtedness is held by a trust or other intermediate entity established directly or indirectly by the issuer, the securities of such intermediate entity have) a separate CUSIP number shall be deemed to be a series of the issuer's long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is separate from each other series of such indebtedness.
Eligible Subordinated Debt
     has the meaning specified in Recital B.
"Exchange Event"
     means the Corporation's 6.600% junior subordinated debentures due 2066, underlying the 6.660% trust preferred securities of USB Capital XI (CUSIP No. 903300200).
"Existing Junior Subordinated Debentures"
     "" means, as to the Covered Debt then in effect, each holder of such Covered Debt as reflected on the securities register maintained by or on behalf of the issuer with respect to such Covered Debt.
Holder
     "" means 6.600% junior subordinated debentures due 2066, underlying the 6.660% trust preferred securities of USB Capital XI (CUSIP No. 903300200).
Initial Covered Debt
     means, as to any security or combination of securities, that the issuer has publicly stated its intention, either in the prospectus or other offering document under which such securities were initially offered for sale or in filings with the Commission made by the issuer under the Securities Exchange Act prior to or contemporaneously with the issuance of such securities, that the issuer will redeem or purchase such securities only with the proceeds of specified replacement capital securities that have terms and provisions at the time of redemption or purchase that are as
"Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure"
 
or more equity-like than the securities then being redeemed or purchased, raised since the most recent Measurement Date. Notwithstanding the use of the term "Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure" in the definitions of "Qualifying Capital Securities" and "Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock", the requirement in each such definition that a particular security or the related transaction documents include Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure shall be disregarded and given no force or effect if and for so long as the Corporation is a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended.
     " means cumulative or non-cumulative preferred stock with (i) no prepayment obligation on the part of the issuer thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise, and (ii) a requirement that the preferred stock convert into Common Stock of the Corporation within three years from the date of its issuance at a conversion ratio within a range established at the time of issuance of the preferred stock.
Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock
     "" means, as to any security or combination of securities (together, in this definition, "securities"), provisions in the terms thereof or of the related transaction agreements that:
Mandatory Trigger Provision
     (A) require, or at its option in the case of Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock permit, the issuer of such securities to make payment of Distributions on such securities only pursuant to the issue and sale of APM Qualifying Securities, within two years of a failure to satisfy one or more financial tests set forth in the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements, in amount such that the net proceeds of such sale are at least equal to the amount of unpaid Distributions on such securities (including without limitation all deferred and accumulated amounts) and in either case require the application of the net proceeds of such sale to pay such unpaid Distributions, that (i) the amount of the net proceeds of Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock which the issuer may apply to pay such Distributions pursuant to such provision may not exceed 25% of the initial liquidation or principal amount of such securities, and (ii) if the Mandatory Trigger Provision does not permit the use of the proceeds of the issuance and sale of Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock to pay such Distributions and does not require the issuance and sale of Common Stock and/or rights to purchase Common Stock and the application of the net proceeds thereof to the payment of such Distributions within one year of such failure, then the amount of the net proceeds of the issuance and sale of Common Stock and/or rights to purchase Common Stock which the issuer may apply to pay such Distributions pursuant to such provision may not exceed 2% of the Company's market capitalization,
provided
     (B) if the APM Qualifying Securities are Common Stock or rights to purchase Common Stock, prohibit the issuer from repurchasing any Common Stock prior to the date six months after the issuer applies the net proceeds of the sales described in clause (A) to pay such unpaid Distributions in full, and
     (C) upon any liquidation, dissolution, winding up, reorganization or in connection with any insolvency, receivership or proceeding under any bankruptcy law with respect
 
to the issuer, limit the claim of the holders of such securities (other than Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock) for Distributions that accumulate during a period in which the issuer fails to satisfy one or more financial tests set forth in the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements to (x) 25% of the principal amount of such securities then outstanding in the case of securities not permitting the issuance and sale pursuant to the provisions described in clause (A) above of securities other than Common Stock or rights to purchase Common Stock or (y) two years of accumulated and unpaid Distributions (including compounded amounts thereon) in all other cases. No remedy other than Permitted Remedies will arise by the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements in favor of the holders of such securities as a result of the issuer's failure to pay Distributions because of the Mandatory Trigger Provision or as a result of the issuer's exercise of its right under an Optional Deferral Provision until Distributions have been deferred for one or more Distribution Periods that total together at least ten years. It is acknowledged that as of the date hereof the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has not approved a Mandatory Trigger Provision in securities issued by a bank holding company and treated as Tier 1 capital for the bank holding company.
     "" means the occurrence or existence of any of the following events or sets of circumstances:
Market Disruption Event
     (a) trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities, futures or options exchange or over-the-counter market on which the Common Stock, rights to purchase Common Stock and/or the Corporation's preferred stock is then listed or traded shall have been suspended or the settlement of such trading activity generally shall have been materially disrupted or minimum prices shall have been established on any such exchange or market by the Commission, by the relevant exchange or by another regulatory body or governmental authority having jurisdiction, and the establishment of such minimum prices materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, Common Stock, rights to purchase Common Stock and/or the Corporation's preferred stock;
     (b) the Corporation would be required to obtain the consent or approval of its shareholders or a regulatory body (including, without limitation, any securities exchange) or governmental authority to issue or sell APM Qualifying Securities and the Corporation fails to obtain that consent or approval notwithstanding the Corporation's commercially reasonable efforts to obtain that consent or approval or the Primary Federal Bank Regulatory Agency instructs the Corporation not to sell or offer for sale APM Qualifying Securities at such time;
     (c) a banking moratorium shall have been declared by the federal or state authorities of the United States such that market trading in the Common Stock or rights to purchase Common Stock and/or the Corporation's preferred stock has been materially disrupted;
 
     (d) a material disruption shall have occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States such that market trading in the Common Stock, rights to purchase Common Stock and/or the Corporation's preferred stock has been materially disrupted;
     (e) the United States shall have become engaged in hostilities, there shall have been an escalation in hostilities involving the United States, there shall have been a declaration of a national emergency or war by the United States or there shall have occurred any other national or international calamity or crisis such that market trading in the Common Stock, rights to purchase Common Stock and/or the Corporation's preferred stock has been materially disrupted;
     (f) there shall have occurred such a material adverse change in general domestic or international economic, political or financial conditions, including without limitation as a result of terrorist activities, such that market trading in the Common Stock, rights to purchase Common and/or the Corporation's preferred stock has been materially disrupted;
     (g) an event occurs and is continuing as a result of which the offering document for such offer and sale of APM Qualifying Securities would, in the Corporation's reasonable judgment, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and either (a) the disclosure of that event at such time, in the Corporation's reasonable judgment, is not otherwise required by law and would have a material adverse effect on the Corporation's business or (b) the disclosure relates to a previously undisclosed proposed or pending material business transaction and the Corporation has a reason for keeping the same confidential or its disclosure would impede the Corporation's ability to consummate such transaction, provided that no single suspension period contemplated by this paragraph (g) shall exceed 90 consecutive days and multiple suspension periods contemplated by this paragraph (g) shall not exceed an aggregate of 180 days in any 360-day period; or
bona fide
     (h) the Corporation reasonably believes, for reasons other than those referred to in paragraph (g) above, that the offering document for the offer and sale of APM Qualifying Securities would not be in compliance with a rule or regulation of the Commission and the Corporation is unable to comply with such rule or regulation or such compliance is unduly burdensome, provided that no single suspension period contemplated by this paragraph (h) shall exceed 90 consecutive days and multiple suspension periods contemplated by this paragraph (h) shall not exceed an aggregate of 180 days in any 360-day period.
     The definition of "" as used in any securities or combination of securities that constitute Qualifying Capital Securities may include less than all of the paragraphs outlined above, as determined by the Corporation at the time of issuance of such securities, and in the case of clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d), as applicable to a circumstance where the Corporation would otherwise endeavor to issue preferred stock,
Market Disruption Event
 
shall be limited to circumstances affecting markets where the Corporation's preferred stock trades or where a listing for its trading is being sought.
     "" means, with respect to any redemption or purchase of securities, the date six months prior to the delivery of notice of such redemption or the date of such purchase.
Measurement Date
     "" means a provision or provisions in the transaction documents for securities (referred to in this definition as "such securities") that include the following:
No Payment Provision
     (a) an Alternative Payment Mechanism; and
     (b) an Optional Deferral Provision modified and supplemented from the general definition of that term to provide that:
     (i) the issuer of such securities may, in its sole discretion, or (if the issuer elects to so provide in the terms of such securities) shall in response to a directive or order from the Primary Federal Bank Regulatory Agency, defer in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more consecutive Distribution Periods of up to five years or, if a Market Disruption Event has occurred and is continuing, ten years, without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies and the obligations (and limitations on obligations) described in the definition of "Alternative Payment Mechanism" applying; and
     (ii) if the issuer becomes subject to a bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar proceeding prior to the redemption or repayment of such securities, the holders of such securities will have no claim to any deferred and unpaid Distributions exceeding (x) if the APM Qualifying Securities include only Common Stock or rights to purchase Common Stock and do not include Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, 25% of the principal or stated amount of such securities then outstanding and (y) if the APM Qualifying Securities include Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, two years of Distributions on such securities; provided, however, that if the APM Qualifying Securities include Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock and, accordingly, clause (y) applies, holders of such securities may have an additional preferred equity claim in respect of deferred and unpaid distributions which are in excess of two years of Distributions that is senior to the Corporation's common stock and is or would be pari passu with any Qualifying Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock up to the amount equal to their pro rata shares of any unused portion of the Preferred Cap (as defined in the definition of "Alternative Payment Mechanism").
     "" means, with respect to any securities, that the issuer thereof may elect not to make any number of periodic Distributions or interest payments without any remedy arising under the terms of the securities or related agreements in favor of the holders, other than one or more Permitted Remedies.
Non-Cumulative
     "" means a nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Securities Exchange Act.
NRSRO
 
     means the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
"OCC"
     has the meaning specified in Recital A.
"Offering Circular"
     "" means, as to any security or combination of securities, a provision in the terms thereof or of the related transaction agreements to the effect of either (a) or (b) below:
Optional Deferral Provision
     (a)(i) the issuer of such securities may, in its sole discretion, or in response to a directive order from a Primary Federal Bank Regulatory Agency, defer or skip in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more Distribution Periods (whether or not consecutive) for up to five years or, if a Market Disruption Event is continuing, ten years, without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies and (ii) if the issuer of such securities has exhausted its right to defer Distributions and no Market Disruption Event is continuing, the issuer will be obligated to issue and sell Common Stock and/or Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock in an amount such that the net proceeds of such sale equal or exceed the amount of unpaid Distributions on such securities (including without limitation all deferred and accumulated amounts) and to apply the net proceeds of such sale to pay such unpaid Distributions in full or;
     (b) the issuer of such securities may, in its sole discretion, or in response to a directive order from a Primary Federal Bank Regulatory Agency, defer or skip in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more Distribution Periods (whether or not consecutive) for up to ten years, without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies.
     "" means a replacement capital covenant, as identified by the Corporation's Board of Directors reasonably construing the definitions of this Replacement Capital Covenant, (i) entered into by a company that at the time it enters into such replacement capital covenant is a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act and (ii) that restricts the related issuer from redeeming or purchasing identified securities that at the time of initial issuance were rated by at least two NRSROs except out of the proceeds of specified replacement capital securities that have terms and provisions at the time of redemption or purchase that are as or more equity-like than the securities then being redeemed or purchased, raised since the most recent Measurement Date (and, if the replacement capital securities are Common Stock or rights to purchase Common Stock, with the Corporation being deemed to receive the applicable percentage (which, depending upon the equity-like characteristics being redeemed or repurchased as of the date of redemption or repurchase will be 133.33% if such securities are perpetual or have a remaining term to maturity of more than 50 years, 200% if such securities have a remaining term to maturity of 50 years or less but more than 30 years, and 400% if such securities have a remaining term to maturity of 30 years or less but more than 20 years) of the proceeds actually received).
Other Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant
     "" means, as to any security or combination of securities, one or more of the following remedies:
Permitted Remedies
 
     (i) rights in favor of the holders thereof permitting such holders to elect one or more directors of the Corporation or a Subsidiary of the Corporation (including any such rights required by the listing requirements of any stock or securities exchange on which such securities may be listed or traded); and
     (ii) complete or partial prohibitions on the Corporation or a Subsidiary of the Corporation paying Distributions on or purchasing or redeeming Common Stock or other securities that rank pari passu with or junior as to Distributions to such securities for so long as Distributions on such securities, including deferred Distributions, have not been paid in full or to such lesser extent as may be specified in the terms of such securities.
     "" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, limited liability company or corporation, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
     means, as to the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries at any time, the Federal bank regulatory agency that has primary regulatory authority with respect to the Corporation or such Subsidiary.
"Primary Federal Bank Regulatory Agency"
     means securities (other than Common Stock, rights to purchase Common Stock and securities convertible into Common Stock) that, in the determination of the Corporation's Board of Directors, or the relevant committee thereof, reasonably construing the definitions and other terms of this Replacement Capital Covenant, meet one of the following criteria:
"Qualifying Capital Securities"
     (i) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (1) rank (or would rank if the Existing Junior Subordinated Debentures remained outstanding) pari passu with or junior to the Existing Junior Subordinated Debentures upon a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, (2) have a No Payment Provision, (3) have no maturity or a legal final maturity of at least 60 years and (4) either (x) are subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or an Other Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant or (y) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision and are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure; or
     (ii) securities issued by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries that (1) rank pari passu with or junior to other preferred stock of the issuer, (2) have no maturity or a legal final maturity of at least 40 years, (3) are subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or an Other Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant, (4) have an Optional Deferral Provision and (5) have a Mandatory Trigger Provision.
     Additionally, and notwithstanding the foregoing, any securities or combinations of securities if issued to any Subsidiary of the Corporation, without the contemporaneous issuance of any security by such Subsidiary to a Person other than the Corporation or a Subsidiary of the Corporation, shall not qualify as Qualifying Capital Securities (it being understood and agreed for the avoidance of doubt that persons covered by the
 
Corporation's dividend reinvestment plan and employee benefit plans shall not be deemed to be affiliates of the Corporation for this purpose).
     " means preferred or preference stock of the Corporation that (i) is Non-Cumulative, (ii) ranks pari passu with or junior to all other outstanding preferred stock of the Corporation, (iii) is perpetual and (iv) is subject to either a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or an Other Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant or provides for mandatory deferral tied to the breach of certain financial triggers and is subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure, and in each case as to which the transaction documents provide for no remedies as a consequence of non-payment of Distributions other than Permitted Remedies.
Qualifying Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock
     "" means, as to the then-effective Covered Debt, the earliest of (i) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date of such Covered Debt, (ii) if the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries elects to redeem, or the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries elects to repurchase, such Covered Debt either in whole or in part with the consequence that after giving effect to such redemption or repurchase the outstanding aggregate principal amount of such Covered Debt is less than $100,000,000, the applicable redemption or repurchase date and (iii) if such Covered Debt is not Eligible Subordinated Debt, the date on which the Corporation or U.S. Bank issues long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Subordinated Debt.
Redesignation Date
     "" means Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock of a Subsidiary of a Depository Institution Subsidiary, which may or may not be a "real estate investment trust" ("REIT") within the meaning of Section 856 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, that is exchangeable for Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock of the Corporation and satisfies the following requirements:
REIT Preferred Securities
     (a) such Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock of a Subsidiary of a Depository Institution Subsidiary and the related Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock of the Corporation for which it may be exchanged qualifies as Tier 1 or core capital of a Depository Institution Subsidiary under the risk-based capital guidelines of the appropriate Primary Federal Bank Regulatory Agency and related interpretive guidance (for example, in the case of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Corporate Decision 97-109);
     (b) such Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock of a Subsidiary of a Depository Institution Subsidiary must be exchangeable automatically into Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock of the Corporation in the event that the appropriate Primary Federal Bank Regulatory Agency directs such Depository Institution Subsidiary in writing to make a conversion because such Depository Institution Subsidiary is (i) undercapitalized under the applicable prompt corrective action regulations (which, for example, in the case of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and applicable to national banks, are at 12 C.F.R. 6.4(b)), (ii) placed into conservatorship or receivership, or (iii) expected to become undercapitalized in the near term;
 
     (c) if such Subsidiary of the Depositary Institution Subsidiary is a REIT, the transaction documents include provisions that would require the Subsidiary to declare "consent dividends" (to the maximum extent permitted by Internal Revenue Code Sections 565 and 562(c)) if it were to stop paying Distributions on its Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock, as is necessary to maintain its status as a REIT;
     (d) such Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock of the Corporation issued upon exchange for the Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock of a Subsidiary of a Depository Institution Subsidiary, issued as part of such transaction, ranks pari passu or junior to other preferred stock of the Corporation; and
     (e) such Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock of a Subsidiary of a Depository Institution Subsidiary and Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock of the Corporation for which it may be exchanged are subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or an Other Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant.
     "" has the meaning specified in the introduction to this instrument.
Replacement Capital Covenant
     "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Securities Exchange Act
     "" means, at any time, any Person the shares of stock or other ownership interests of which having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other managers of such Person are at the time owned, or the management or policies of which are otherwise at the time controlled, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries (including other Subsidiaries) or both, by another Person.
Subsidiary
     means U.S. Bank National Association.
"U.S. Bank"


