FILE:USB/USB-8K-20060117170333.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On January 16, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors approved the 2006 Form of Executive Officer Stock Option Agreement with annual vesting for use from time to time under the U.S. Bancorp 2001 Stock Incentive Plan. The form of agreement is included in this filing as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

To accept receipt of the Option and to agree to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement, take no action. To reject receipt of the Option and the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement, please notify Karen Bulman, Stock Option Administration in Human Resources at U.S. Bancorp, 5065 Wooster Road, CN-OH-L2HR, Cincinnati, OH 45226, in writing within 30 calendar days of the day you receive this document. Failure to notify in a timely manner will result in your acceptance of the Option and the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement. Please read all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
is made as of the date in the box above labeled "Grant Date" (the "Grant Date") by and between U.S. Bancorp, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and the individual named in the box above labeled "Granted To" (the "Optionee").
THIS AGREEMENT
, the Company pursuant to its 2001 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") wishes to grant a stock option for the purchase of Common Stock of the Company, $0.01 par value (the "Common Stock"), to the Optionee on the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement and the Plan. In consideration of the mutual covenants contained in this Agreement, the parties agree as follows:
WHEREAS
The Company grants Optionee the right and option (the "Option") to purchase all or any part of an aggregate of the number of shares of the Company's Common Stock set forth in the box above labeled "Number of U.S. Bancorp Common Shares" at the exercise price set forth in the box above labeled "Exercise Price Per Share" on the terms and conditions of this Agreement. The Option is not intended to be an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").
(a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Option may be exercised by Optionee in cumulative installments not in excess of 25% on or after the first anniversary of the Grant Date, 25% on or after the second anniversary of the Grant Date, 25% on or after the third anniversary of the Grant Date and 25% on or after the fourth anniversary of the Grant Date. If the full amount of stock available for purchase in any of the foregoing periods is not purchased during such period, the shares not purchased shall be available for purchase in any subsequent period during the term of the Option. The Option shall terminate at the close of business on the date in the box above labeled "Expiration Date," or on such earlier date as described in this Agreement.
(b) Notwithstanding the vesting provision contained in Section 2(a) above, but subject to the other terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Option may be exercised in full immediately upon a "Qualifying Termination." For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following definitions:
3. 
Effect of Termination of Employment
4. 
Securities Law Compliance
The exercise of all or any portion of this Option shall only be effective at such time that the sale of Common Stock issued pursuant to such exercise will not violate any state or federal securities or other laws. The Company is under no obligation to effect any registration of the stock subject to the Option under the Securities Act of 1933 or to effect any state registration or qualification of such Common Stock. The Company may, in its sole discretion, defer the effectiveness of any full or partial exercise of the Option in order to ensure that the issuance of stock upon exercise will be in compliance with federal or state securities laws and the rules of the New York Stock Exchange or any other exchange upon which the Company's Common Stock is traded.
5. 
Method of Exercise of Option
Subject to the foregoing, the Option may be exercised in whole or part from time to time by serving written notice of exercise on the Company at its principal executive offices, to the attention of the Company's Executive Compensation Department or to its properly designated agent serving from time to time. The notice shall state the number of shares as to which the Option is being exercised and be accompanied by payment of the purchase price. Optionee may, at Optionee's election, pay the purchase price (a) by check payable to the Company, (b) in previously owned shares of the Company's Common Stock or (c) in any combination of the two, in each case having a Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan) on the exercise date equal to the applicable exercise price. Optionee may, at Optionee's election, exercise the Option, in whole or in part, by providing the Company with an attestation that such previously owned  shares of the Company's Common Stock are owned by Optionee, in which case the number of previously owned shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the exercise price (or appropriate portion of the exercise price) will be withheld from the number of shares issued to Optionee pursuant to the exercise of the Option. Previously owned shares used as provided in the two immediately preceding sentences must have been owned by Optionee for a minimum of six months prior to the date of exercise of the Option for this method of payment to apply.
6. 
Income Tax Withholding
To provide the Company with the opportunity to claim the benefit of any income tax deduction which may be available to it upon the exercise of the Option, and to comply with all applicable federal or state income tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal or state payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are the sole and absolute responsibility of Optionee, are withheld or collected from Optionee. The Optionee may, at Optionee's election, satisfy applicable tax withholding obligations by (i) electing to have the Company withhold a portion of the shares of Common Stock otherwise to be delivered upon exercise of such Option having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes or (ii) delivering to the Company  shares of Common Stock other than the shares issuable upon exercise of such Option having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes. The election must be made on or before the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is determined.
7. 
Miscellaneous
8. 
Governing Law
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota.
, the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the day and year first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
U.S. BANCORP
By: Karen Bulman Its: Vice President


