FILE:USB/USB-8K-20070418140705.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 Under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
2007 Stock Incentive Plan
On April 17, 2007, at the 2007 annual meeting of shareholders of U.S. Bancorp (the "Company"), the Company's shareholders approved the U.S. Bancorp 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), which previously had been approved by the Company's Board of Directors subject to shareholder approval. The Plan permits grants of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, dividend equivalents, performance awards, other stock awards and other stock-based awards (collectively, "Awards"). The Company's Board of Directors and the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors have the authority to determine the type of Award as well as the amount, terms and conditions of each Award under the Plan, subject to the limitations and other provisions of the Plan.
The purpose of the Plan is to promote the interests of the Company and its shareholders by aiding the Company in attracting and retaining employees, officers and non-employee directors capable of assuring the future success of the Company, to offer such persons incentives to put forth maximum efforts toward the success of the Company's business, and compensate such persons through various stock-based and other arrangements and afford them with an opportunity for stock ownership in the Company.
A total of 70,000,000 shares of the Company's common stock is authorized for the granting of Awards under the Plan. Of these shares, only 25,000,000 will be available for granting Awards other than stock options or stock appreciation rights. The number of shares available for Awards, as well as the terms of outstanding Awards, are subject to adjustment as provided in the Plan for stock splits, stock dividends, recapitalizations and other similar events.
Awards may be granted under the Plan only during a 10-year period beginning on the effective date of the Plan. The Board may from time to time, amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate the Plan, subject, in certain circumstances, to shareholder approval.
The summary of the Plan above is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Plan, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. A more detailed summary of the Plan can be found in the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 5, 2007.
Forms of Award Agreements
On April 16, 2007, the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors approved the following:
Table of Contents
Each of the forms listed above is filed as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
Certificate of Incorporation
On April 16, 2007, the Company filed a Certificate of Elimination with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware effecting the elimination from the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation of all matters set forth in the Certificates of Designation with respect to the Company's (i) Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1990A, (ii) 8 1/8% Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, and (iii) Term Participating Preferred Stock (collectively, the "Preferred Stock"). No shares of the Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding at the time of the filing of the Certificate of Elimination.
On April 17, 2007, the Company filed a Certificate of Amendment of the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware. This amendment was approved by the Company's shareholders at the Company's 2007 annual meeting of shareholders held on April 17, 2007. The Certificate of Amendment amended the Restated Certificate of Incorporation to provide for the phased-in elimination of the classification of the Company's Board of Directors and the annual election of all directors. The amendment was described in the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 5, 2007. Also on April 17, 2007, the Company filed a Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, thereby restating its previous Restated Certificate of Incorporation to integrate all amendments made since the prior restatement. A copy of the new Restated Certificate of Incorporation is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Bylaws
On April 17, 2007, a number of amendments were made to the Company's Restated Bylaws. All of the amendments were approved by the Company's Board of Directors contingent upon approval by the Company's shareholders at its 2007 annual shareholders' meeting of the Company's proposal to amend its Restated Certificate of Incorporation to provide for the annual election of directors. The shareholders approved the amendments to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, and therefore the Bylaws were amended on the date of the annual meeting. Certain of the amendments correspond to the changes made to the Restated Certificate of Incorporation to eliminate the Company's classified Board of Directors. The other changes accommodate changes in the Company's structure and governance function since the Bylaws were last amended.
The Company's Bylaws have been restated to effect these amendments. The description below of the amendments to the Restated Bylaws is qualified in its entirety by the Company's new
Table of Contents
Restated Bylaws, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 3.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The amendments to the Bylaws include amendments to:
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) .
Exhibits
     The following exhibits are being filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 18, 2007
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 3.1
     : The name of this corporation is U.S. Bancorp.
FIRST
     : The registered office of the corporation in the State of Delaware is to be located at 1209 Orange Street in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name of the registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
SECOND
     : The purpose of the corporation is to engage in any part of the world in any capacity in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of Delaware, and the corporation shall be authorized to exercise and enjoy all powers, rights and privileges which corporations organized under the General Corporation Law of Delaware may have under the laws of the State of Delaware as in force from time to time, including without limitation all powers, rights and privileges necessary or convenient to carry out all those acts and activities in which it may lawfully engage.
THIRD
     : The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the corporation shall have the authority to issue is 4,050,000,000, consisting of 50,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock of the par value of $1.00 each and 4,000,000,000 shares of Common Stock of the par value of $.01 each.
FOURTH
     The designations and the powers, preferences and rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of each class of stock are as follows:
     The Board of Directors is expressly authorized at any time, and from time to time, to provide for the issuance of shares of preferred stock in one or more series, with such voting powers, full or limited, or without voting powers and with such designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, as shall be stated and expressed in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issue thereof adopted by the board of directors, subject to the limitations prescribed by law and in accordance with the provisions hereof, including (but without limiting the generality thereof) the following:
     (a) The designation of the series and the number of shares to constitute the series.
     (b) The dividend rate of the series, the conditions and dates upon which such dividends shall be payable, the relation which such dividends shall bear to the dividends payable on any other class or classes of stock, and whether such dividends shall be cumulative or noncumulative.
     (c) Whether the shares of the series shall be subject to redemption by the corporation and, if made subject to such redemption, the times, prices and other terms and conditions of such redemption.
 
     (d) The terms and amount of any sinking fund provided for the purchase or redemption of the shares of the series.
     (e) Whether or not the shares of the series shall be convertible into or exchangeable for shares of any other class or classes or of any other series of any class or classes of stock of the corporation, and, if provision be made for conversion or exchange, the times, prices, rates, adjustments and other terms and conditions of such conversion or exchange.
     (f) The extent, if any, to which the holders of the shares of the series shall be entitled to vote with respect to the election of directors or otherwise.
     (g) The restrictions, if any on the issue or reissue of any additional preferred stock.
     (h) The rights of the holders of the shares of the series upon the dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the corporation.
     Subject to the prior or equal rights, if any, of the preferred stock of any and all series stated and expressed by the board of directors in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issuance of such preferred stock, the holders of common stock shall be entitled (i) to receive dividends when and as declared by the board of directors out of any funds legally available therefore, (ii) in the event of any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the corporation, to receive the remaining assets of the corporation, ratably according to the number of shares of common stock held, and (iii) to one vote for each share of common stock held. No holder of common stock shall have any preemptive right to purchase or subscribe for any part of any issue of stock or of securities of the corporation convertible into stock of any class whatsoever, whether now or hereafter authorized.
     Pursuant to the authority conferred by this Article FOURTH, the following series of Preferred Stock have been designated, each such series consisting of such number of shares, with such voting powers and with such designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof as are stated and expressed in the exhibit with respect to such series attached hereto as specified below and incorporated herein by reference:
                Exhibit A            Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock
                Exhibit B            Series A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock
                Exhibit C            Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock
                Exhibit D            Series C Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock
     : In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by statute, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized:
FIFTH
     (a) To fix, determine and vary from time to time the amount to be maintained as surplus and the amount or amounts to be set apart as working capital.
     (b) To adopt, amend, alter or repeal by-laws of the corporation, without any action on the part of the shareholders. The by-laws adopted by the directors may be amended, altered, changed, added to or repealed by the shareholders.
     (c) To authorize and cause to be executed mortgages and liens, without limit as to amount, upon the real and personal property of this corporation.
     (d) To sell, assign, convey or otherwise dispose of a part of the property, assets and effects of this corporation, less than the whole, or less than substantially the whole thereof, on such terms and conditions as they shall deem advisable, without the assent of the shareholders; and also to sell, assign, transfer, convey and otherwise dispose of
 
the whole or substantially the whole of the property, assets, effects, franchises and good will of this corporation on such terms and conditions as they shall deem advisable, but only pursuant to the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority in amount of the stock then having voting power and at the time issued and outstanding, but in any event not less than the amount required by law.
     (e) All of the powers of this corporation, insofar as the same lawfully may be vested by this certificate in the board of directors, are hereby conferred upon the board of directors of this corporation.
     : The affairs of the Corporation shall be conducted by a Board of Directors. Except as otherwise provided by this Article Sixth, the number of directors, not less than twelve (12) nor more than thirty (30), shall be fixed from time to time by the Bylaws. Commencing with the 2008 annual meeting of the stockholders, directors shall be elected annually for terms of one year and shall hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting. Directors elected at the 2005 annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders; directors elected at the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders and directors elected at the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders. In all cases, directors shall hold office until their respective successors are elected by the stockholders and have qualified.
SIXTH
     In the event that the holders of any class or series of stock of the Corporation having a preference as to dividends or upon liquidation of the Corporation shall be entitled, by a separate class vote, to elect directors as may be specified pursuant to Article Fourth, then the provisions of such class or series of stock with respect to their rights shall apply. The number of directors that may be elected by the holders of any such class or series of stock shall be in addition to the number fixed pursuant to the preceding paragraph of this Article Sixth. Except as otherwise expressly provided pursuant to Article Fourth, the number of directors that may be so elected by the holders of any such class or series of stock shall be elected for terms expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders and vacancies among directors so elected by the separate class vote of any such class or series of stock shall be filled by the remaining directors elected by such class or series, or, if there are no such remaining directors, by the holders of such class or series in the same manner in which such class or series initially elected a director.
     If at any meeting for the election of directors, more than one class of stock, voting separately as classes, shall be entitled to elect one or more directors and there shall be a quorum of only one such class of stock, that class of stock shall be entitled to elect its quota of directors notwithstanding the absence of a quorum of the other class or classes of stock.
     Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the number of directors, subject to the provision of Article Fourth, shall be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole
 
remaining director, and such directors so chosen shall hold office until the next election of directors, and until their successors shall be elected and shall have qualified.
     : No action required to be taken or which may be taken at any annual meeting or special meeting of stockholders may be taken without a meeting, and the power of stockholders to consent in writing, without a meeting, to the taking of any action is specifically denied.
SEVENTH
     : No director of the corporation shall be personally liable to the corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty by such director as a director; provided, however, that this Article Eighth shall not eliminate or limit the liability of a director to the extent provided by applicable law (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under section 174 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. No amendment to or repeal of this Article Eighth shall apply to or have any effect on the liability or alleged liability of any director of the corporation for or with respect to any acts or omissions of such director occurring prior to such amendment or repeal.
EIGHTH
 
Exhibit A
     Section 1. . The shares of such series shall be designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" (the "Series A Preferred Stock") and the number of shares constituting the Series A Preferred Stock shall be 4,000,000. Such number of shares may be increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors; , that no decrease shall reduce the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock to a number less than the number of shares then outstanding plus the number of shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options, rights or warrants or upon the conversion of any outstanding securities issued by the Corporation convertible into Series A Preferred Stock.
Designation and Amount
provided
     Section 2. .
Dividends and Distributions
     (A) Subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock (or any similar stock) ranking prior and superior to the Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock, in preference to the holders of Common Stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Common Stock"), of the Corporation, and of any other junior stock, shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the
 
purpose, quarterly dividends payable in cash on the first day of March, June, September and December in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a "Quarterly Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a) $1 or (b) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 1000 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 1000 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions, other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
     (B) The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) of this Section immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided that, in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $1 per share on the Series A Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.
     (C) Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares of Series A Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend
 
or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.
     Section 3. . The holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:
Voting Rights
     (A) Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 1000 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
     (B) Except as otherwise provided herein, in any other Certificate of Designations creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock, or by law, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock and any other capital stock of the Corporation having general voting rights shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation.
     (C) Except as set forth herein, or as otherwise provided by law, holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action.
     Section 4. .
Certain Restrictions
     (A) Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not:
     (i) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock;
     (ii) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which
 
dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled;
     (iii) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock, provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such junior stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the Corporation ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock; or
     (iv) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Series A Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.
     (B) The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under paragraph (A) of this Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
     Section 5. . Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein, in the Certificate of Incorporation, or in any other Certificate of Designations creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock or as otherwise required by law.
Reacquired Shares
     Section 6. . Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, no distribution shall be made (1) to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have received $1,000 per share, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment, provided that the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive an aggregate amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 1,000 times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of shares of Common Stock, or (2) to the holders of shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except distributions made ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are entitled upon
Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up
 
such liquidation, dissolution or winding up. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the aggregate amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under the proviso in clause (1) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
     Section 7. In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed into an amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 1,000 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged. In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
Consolidation, Merger, etc.
     Section 8. . The shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable.
No Redemption
     Section 9. . The Series A Preferred Stock shall rank, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets, junior to all series of any other class of the Corporation's Preferred Stock.
Rank
     Section 10. . The Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation shall not be amended in any manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series A Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class.
Amendment
 
Exhibit B
          . The designation of the series of Preferred Stock created by this resolution shall be Series A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (hereinafter referred to as the ""). Each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series A Preferred Stock. Series A Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
Section 1. Designation
Series A Preferred Stock
          . The number of authorized shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be 20,010. Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such reduction has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series A Preferred Stock.
Section 2. Number of Shares
          . As used herein with respect to Series A Preferred Stock:
Section 3. Definitions
          "" means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions in Minneapolis, Minnesota, New York, New York or Wilmington, Delaware are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.
Business Day
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.
Depositary Company
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Dividend Payment Date
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Dividend Period
          "" means The Depositary Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.
DTC
 
          "" means the Corporation's common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized over which Series A Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Junior Stock
          "" means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars) in London, England.
London Banking Day
          "" means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks on a par with Series A Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Parity Stock
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7 hereof.
Preferred Director
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.
Series A Preferred Stock
          "" means the display page so designated on the Moneyline/Telerate Service (or such other page as may replace that page on that service, or such other service as may be nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying rates or prices comparable to the London Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar deposits).
Telerate Page 3750
          "" means, with respect to any Dividend Period, the rate (expressed as a percentage ) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period that appears on Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Banking Day preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. If such rate does not appear on Telerate Page 3750, Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time on the second London Banking Day preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. U.S. Bank National Association, or such other bank as may be acting as calculation agent for the Corporation, will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the calculation agent, at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000. However, if the banks selected by the calculation agent to provide
Three-Month LIBOR
per annum
 
quotations are not quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period, the most recent rate that could have been determined in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph had Series A Preferred Stock been outstanding. The calculation agent's establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend Period will be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation, will be made available to any holder of Series A Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.
     .
Section 4. Dividends
               . Holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share of Series A Preferred Stock, and no more, payable on the following dates: (1) if the Series A Preferred Stock is issued prior to April 15, 2011, semi-annually in arrears on each April 15 and October 15 through April 15, 2011, and (2) from and including the later of April 15, 2011 and the date of issuance, quarterly in arrears on each July 15, October 15, January 15 and April 15; , , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a ""). The period from and including the date of issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a "." Dividends on each share of Series A Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share (i) to but not including the Dividend Payment Date in April 2011 at a rate equal to 6.189%, and (ii) thereafter for each related Dividend Period at a rate equal to the greater of (x) Three-Month LIBOR plus 1.02% or (y) 3.50%. The record date for payment of dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls. The amount of dividends payable for any period prior to the later of the Dividend Payment Day in April 2011 and the date of original issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months and dividends for periods thereafter shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed.
(a) Rate
provided
however
Dividend Payment Date
Dividend Period
per annum
per annum
               . Dividends on shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series A Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period
(b) Non-Cumulative Dividends
 
with respect to Series A Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation.
               . So long as any share of Series A Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to offers to purchase all, or a portion, of the Series A Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. The foregoing shall not restrict the ability of the Corporation, or any affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in the Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of business. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of Series A Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of Series A Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock shall be declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current Dividend Period per share on Series A Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends, including any accumulations on Parity Stock, bear to each other. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series A Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. If the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide, or cause to be provided, written notice to the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock prior to such date. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any funds legally available therefor, and the shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.
(c) Priority of Dividends
pro rata
pro rata
          .
Section 5. Liquidation Rights
               . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series A Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation's depositors and other creditors, to receive
(a) Liquidation
 
in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share, plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period to the date of liquidation. The holder of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.
               . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference to all holders of Series A Preferred Stock and the liquidation preferences of any Parity Stock to all holders of such Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series A Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences of Series A Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.
(b) Partial Payment
pro rata
               . If the liquidation preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series A Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.
(c) Residual Distributions
               . For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
(d) Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
          .
Section 6. Redemption
               . So long as full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside, the Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem in whole or in part the shares of Series A Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on or after the later of the Dividend Payment Date in April 2011 and the date of original issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be $100,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid plus accrued and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period to the redemption date.
(a) Optional Redemption
               . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at
(b) Notice of Redemption
 
least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series A Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC. Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series A Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series A Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed by such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.
               . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series A Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either from the holders of record of Series A Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series A Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.
(c) Partial Redemption
pro rata
               . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all assets necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the "") in trust for the benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of
(d) Effectiveness of Redemption
pro rata
Depositary Company
pro rata
 
record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest.
          . The holders of Series A Preferred Stock will have no voting rights and will not be entitled to elect any directors, except as expressly provided by law.
Section 7. Voting Rights
          The holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such Series A Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.
Section 8. Conversion.
          . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the vote of the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or any class of securities ranking senior to the Series A Preferred Stock as to dividends and upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
Section 9. Rank
          . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series A Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine; , , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.
Section 10. Repurchase
provided
however
          . Shares of Series A Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series.
Section 11. Unissued or Reacquired Shares
          . Shares of Series A Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.
Section 12. No Sinking Fund
 
Exhibit C
          . The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (hereinafter referred to as the ""). Each share of Series B Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series B Preferred Stock. Series B Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
Section 1. Designation
Series B Preferred Stock
          . The number of authorized shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be 40,000. Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series B Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such increase or reduction, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series B Preferred Stock.
Section 2. Number of Shares
          . As used herein with respect to Series B Preferred Stock:
Section 3. Definitions
          "" means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York.
Business Day
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.
Depositary Company
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Dividend Payment Date
 
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Dividend Period
          "" means The Depositary Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.
DTC
          "" means the Corporation's common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized over which Series B Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Junior Stock
          "" means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars) in London, England.
London Banking Day
          "" means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks on a par with Series B Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Parity Stock
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7 hereof.
Preferred Director
          "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.
Series B Preferred Stock
          "" means the display page so designated on the Moneyline/Telerate Service (or such other page as may replace that page on that service, or such other service as may be nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying rates or prices comparable to the London Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar deposits).
Telerate Page 3750
          "" means, with respect to any Dividend Period, the offered rate (expressed as a percentage ) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period that appears on Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. If such rate does not appear on Telerate Page 3750, Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. U.S. Bank National Association, or such other bank as may be acting as calculation agent for the Corporation, will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New
Three-Month LIBOR
per annum
 
York City selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000. However, if fewer than three banks selected by the Corporation to provide quotations are not quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period, the most recent rate that could have been determined in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph had Series B Preferred Stock been outstanding. The calculation agent's establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend Period will be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation, will be made available to any holder of Series B Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.
          .
Section 4. Dividends
               . Holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share of Series B Preferred Stock, and no more, payable quarterly in arrears on each January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15; , , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a ""). The period from and including the date of issuance of the Series B Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a "." Dividends on each share of Series B Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share at a rate equal to the greater of (i) Three-Month LIBOR plus 0.60%% or (ii) 3.50%. The record date for payment of dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls. The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed.
(a) Rate
provided
however
Dividend Payment Date
Dividend Period
per annum
               . Dividends on shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series B Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series B Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation.
(b) Non-Cumulative Dividends
 
               . So long as any share of Series B Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to offers to purchase all, or a portion, of the Series B Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of Series B Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of Series B Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock shall be declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current Dividend Period per share on Series B Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends, including any accumulations on Parity Stock, bear to each other. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series B Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. If the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide, or cause to be provided, written notice to the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock prior to such date. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available therefor, and the shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.
(c) Priority of Dividends
pro rata
pro rata
          .
Section 5. Liquidation Rights
               . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series B Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation's depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holder of Series B Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or
(a) Liquidation
 
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.
               . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends to all holders of Series B Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series B Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends of Series B Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.
(b) Partial Payment
pro rata
               . If the liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends has been paid in full to all holders of Series B Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.
(c) Residual Distributions
               . For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
(d) Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
          .
Section 6. Redemption
               . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem in whole or in part the shares of Series B Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on or after the Dividend Payment Date in April 2011, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid.
(a) Optional Redemption
               . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series B Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC. Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any
(b) Notice of Redemption
 
holder of shares of Series B Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series B Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series B Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed by such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.
               . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series B Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either from the holders of record of Series B Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series B Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.
(c) Partial Redemption
pro rata
               . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the "") in trust for the benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest.
(d) Effectiveness of Redemption
pro rata
Depositary Company
pro rata
 
          . The holders of Series B Preferred Stock will have no voting rights and will not be entitled to elect any directors, except as expressly provided by law and except that:
Section 7. Voting Rights
               . Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66-2/3% of all of the shares the Series B Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, voting separately as a class, shall be required to authorize any amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation or of any certificate amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto (including any certificate of designation or any similar document relating to any series of preferred stock) which will materially and adversely affect the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the Series B Preferred Stock, taken as a whole; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series B Preferred Stock or authorized preferred stock of the Corporation or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of other series of preferred stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series B Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the Series B Preferred Stock.
(a) Supermajority Voting Rights  Amendments
               . Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66-2/3% of all of the shares of the Series B Preferred Stock and all other Parity Stock, at the time outstanding, voting as a single class without regard to series, shall be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of, or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing the right to purchase, any additional class or series of stock ranking prior to the shares of the Series B Preferred Stock and all other Parity Stock as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;
(b) Supermajority Voting Rights  Priority
 
               .
(c) Special Voting Right
          . If and whenever dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series B Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(c) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal, as to any class or series, to at least six quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not), the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rightswhether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation's securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series B Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends is a "".
(i) Voting Right
,
Preferred Director
          . The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series B Preferred Stock and any other class or series of our stock that ranks on parity with Series B Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid, called as provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(c)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series B Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation's principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series B Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series B Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(c)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.
(ii) Election
          . Notice for a special meeting will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation's by-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does
(iii) Notice for Special Meeting
 
not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series B Preferred Stock may (at our expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(c)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of our stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(c)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rightswhether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders.
,
          . Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series B Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series B Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for at least four Dividend Periods, then the right of the holders of Series B Preferred Stock to elect such additional two directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods). The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate and the number of directors constituting our board of directors will be reduced accordingly. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series B Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rightswhether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 7(c).
(iv) Termination; Removal
,
          The holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such Series B Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.
Section 8. Conversion.
          . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the vote of the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or, subject to the voting rights granted in Section 7(b), any class of securities ranking senior to the Series B Preferred Stock as to dividends and the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
Section 9. Rank
 
          . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series B Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine; , , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.
Section 10. Repurchase
provided
however
          . Shares of Series B Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series.
Section 11. Unissued or Reacquired Shares
          . Shares of Series B Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.
Section 12. No Sinking Fund
 
Exhibit D
     The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be Series C Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (hereinafter referred to as the ""). Each share of Series C Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series C Preferred Stock. Series C Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
Section 1. Designation.
Series C Preferred Stock
     The number of authorized shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be five thousand (5,000). Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series C Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such increase or reduction, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series C Preferred Stock.
Section 2. Number of Shares.
     As used herein with respect to Series C Preferred Stock:
Section 3. Definitions.
     "" means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York.
Business Day
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.
Depositary Company
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Dividend Payment Date
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Dividend Period
 
     "" means The Depositary Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.
DTC
     "" means the Corporation's common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized over which Series C Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Junior Stock
     "" means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars) in London, England.
London Banking Day
     "" means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks on a par with Series C Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Parity Stock
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7 hereof.
Preferred Director
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.
Series C Preferred Stock
     "" means the display page so designated on the Moneyline/Telerate Service (or such other page as may replace that page on that service, or such other service as may be nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying rates or prices comparable to the London Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar deposits).
Telerate Page 3750
     "" means, with respect to any Dividend Period beginning on or after January 15, 2012 and each Dividend Period thereafter, the offered rate (expressed as a percentage per ) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period that appears on Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. If such rate does not appear on Telerate Page 3750, Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. U.S. Bank National Association, or such other bank as may be acting as calculation agent for the Corporation, will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time,
Three-Month LIBOR
annum
 
on the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000. However, if fewer than three banks selected by the Corporation to provide quotations are not quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period, the most recent rate that could have been determined in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph had Series C Preferred Stock been outstanding. The calculation agent's establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend Period will be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation, will be made available to any holder of Series C Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.
     
Section 4. Dividends.
          Holders of Series C Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share of Series C Preferred Stock, and no more, payable quarterly in arrears on each January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15; if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a ""). The period from and including the date of issuance of the Series C Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a "" Dividends on each share of Series C Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share (i) to but not including the Dividend Payment Date in January 2012 at a rate per equal to 6.091%, and (ii) thereafter for each related Dividend Period at a rate per equal to Three-Month LIBOR plus 1.147%.
(a) Rate.
provided, however,
Dividend Payment Date
Dividend Period.
annum
annum
          Dividends on shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series C Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series C Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series C Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation.
(b) Non-Cumulative Dividends.
          So long as any share of Series C Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock, (ii)
(c) Priority of Dividends.
 
no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to offers to purchase all, or a portion, of the Series C Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series C Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of Series C Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of Series C Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock shall be declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current Dividend Period per share on Series C Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends, including any accumulations on Parity Stock, bear to each other. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series C Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. If the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide, or cause to be provided, written notice to the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock prior to such date. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available therefor, and the shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.
pro rata
pro rata
     
Section 5. Liquidation Rights.
          In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series C Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series C Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation's depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share, plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holder of Series C Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.
(a) Liquidation.
          If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and
(b) Partial Payment.
 
unpaid dividends to all holders of Series C Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series C Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends of Series C Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.
pro rata
          If the liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends has been paid in full to all holders of Series C Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.
(c) Residual Distributions.
          For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
(d) Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation.
     
Section 6. Redemption.
          The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem in whole or in part the shares of Series C Preferred Stock at the time outstanding at any time upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be $100,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid.
(a) Optional Redemption.
          Notice of every redemption of shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series C Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC. Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series C Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series C Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series C Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed by such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares
(b) Notice of Redemption.
 
are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.
          In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series C Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series C Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either from the holders of record of Series C Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series C Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series C Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.
(c) Partial Redemption.
pro rata
          If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the pro rata benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the "") in trust for the benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest.
(d) Effectiveness of Redemption.
Depositary Company
pro rata
     The holders of Series C Preferred Stock will have no voting rights and will not be entitled to elect any directors, except as expressly provided by law and except that:
Section 7. Voting Rights.
 
     
(a) Special Voting Right.
     If and whenever dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(a) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal, as to any class or series, to at least six quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not), the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation's securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series C Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends is a "".
(i) Voting Right.
Preferred Director
     The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series C Preferred Stock and any other class or series of our stock that ranks on parity with Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid, called as provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(a)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series C Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation's principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series C Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(a)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.
(ii) Election.
     Notice for a special meeting will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation's by-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does
(iii) Notice for Special Meeting.
 
not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series C Preferred Stock may (at our expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(a)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of our stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(a)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders.
          Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series C Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series C Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for three consecutive Dividend Periods and full dividends have been paid or declared and set aside for payment for the fourth consecutive Dividend Period, then the right of the holders of Series C Preferred Stock to elect such additional two directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods). The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate and the number of directors constituting our board of directors will be reduced accordingly. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series C Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 7(a).
(iv) Termination; Removal.
          The holders of Series C Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such Series C Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.
Section 8. Conversion.
          Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designation to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the vote of the holders of the Series C Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or, subject to the voting rights granted in Section 7(a), any class of securities ranking senior to the Series C Preferred Stock as to dividends and the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
Section 9. Rank.
 
     Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series C Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine; that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.
Section 10. Repurchase.
provided, however,
     Shares of Series C Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series.
Section 11. Unissued or Reacquired Shares.
     Shares of Series C Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.
Section 12. No Sinking Fund.

 
EXHIBIT 3.2
Section 1. .
Offices
     The registered office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware.
     The Corporation shall have offices at such other places as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
Section 1. .
Annual Meeting
     The annual meeting of the stockholders for the election of Directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting shall be held on such date as the Board of Directors shall each year fix. Each such annual meeting shall be held at such place, within or without the State of Delaware, and hour as shall be determined by the Board of Directors. The day, place and hour of such annual meeting shall be specified in the notice of annual meeting.
     The meeting may be adjourned from time to time and place to place until its business is completed.
Section 2. .
Special Meeting
     Special meetings of stockholders may be called by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer. The notice of such meeting shall state the purpose of such meeting and no business shall be transacted thereat except as stated in the notice thereof. Any such meeting may be held at such place within or without the State of Delaware as may be fixed by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer, and as may be stated in the notice of such meeting.
Section 3. .
Notice of Meeting
     Notice of every meeting of the stockholders shall be given in the manner prescribed by law.
 
Section 4. .
Quorum
     Except as otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the holders of not less than one-third of the shares entitled to vote at any meeting of the stockholders, present in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum and the act of the majority of such quorum shall be deemed the act of the stockholders.
     If a quorum shall fail to attend any meeting, the chairman of the meeting may adjourn the meeting to another place, date, or time.
Section 5. .
Qualification of Voters
     The Board of Directors may fix a day and hour not more than sixty nor less than ten days prior to the day of holding any meeting of the stockholders as the time as of which the stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting shall be determined. Only those persons who were holders of record of voting stock at such time shall be entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting.
Section 6. .
Procedure
     The presiding officer at each meeting of stockholders shall conclusively determine the order of business, all matters of procedure and whether or not a proposal is proper business to be transacted at the meeting and has been properly brought before the meeting.
     The Board shall appoint one or more inspectors of election to serve at every meeting of the stockholders at which Directors are to be elected.
Section 7. .
Nomination of Directors
     Only persons nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election by stockholders as Directors. Nominations of persons for election as Directors at a meeting of stockholders called for the purpose of electing Directors may be made (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) by any stockholder in the manner herein provided. For a nomination to be properly made by a stockholder, the stockholder must give written notice to the Secretary of the Corporation so as to be received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than (i) with respect to an annual meeting of stockholders, 120 days in advance of the date of the Corporation's proxy statement released to stockholders in connection with the previous year's annual meeting of stockholders, except that if no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 days from the date contemplated at the time of the previous year's proxy statement, such notice must be so received a reasonable time before the solicitation is made, and (ii) with respect to a special meeting of stockholders for the election of Directors, the close of business on the seventh day following the date on which the notice of such meeting is first given to stockholders. Each such notice shall set forth (a) the name and address of the stockholder who intends to make the nomination and of the person or persons to be nominated; (b) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (c) a description of all arrangements or understandings
 
between the stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the stockholder; (d) such other Information regarding each nominee proposed by such stockholder as would have been required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission had each nominee been nominated, or intended to be nominated, by the Board; and (e) the consent of each nominee to serve as a Director of the Corporation if so elected.
Section 8. .
Business at Annual Meeting
     At an annual meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors; (b) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors; (c) in the case of a nomination for Director, properly brought in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 7 of Article II hereof; or (d) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. For business other than a nomination for Director to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given written notice to the Secretary of the Corporation so as to be received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 120 days in advance of the date of the Corporation's proxy statement released to stockholders in connection with the previous year's annual meeting of stockholders, except that if no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 days from the date contemplated at the time of the previous year's proxy statement, such notice must be so received a reasonable time before the solicitation is made. Each such notice shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (v) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting; (w) the name and address of the stockholder proposing such business; (x) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder; (y) any material interest of the stockholder in such business; and (z) such other information regarding such business as would be required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission had the matter been proposed by the Board of Directors. Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be considered properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder unless it is brought in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 8 of Article II.
Section 1. .
Number and Election
     The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall consist of such number of Directors as are fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board and within the requirements set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation. Commencing with the 2008 annual meeting of the stockholders, directors shall be elected annually for terms of one year and shall hold office until the next
 
succeeding annual meeting. Directors elected at the 2005 annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders; directors elected at the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders and directors elected at the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders. In all cases, Directors shall hold office until their respective successors are elected by the stockholders and have qualified.
     In the event that the holders of any class or series of stock of the Corporation having a preference as to dividends or upon liquidation of the Corporation shall be entitled, by a separate class vote, to elect Directors as may be specified pursuant to Article Fourth of the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, then the provisions of such class or series of stock with respect to their rights shall apply. The number of Directors that may be elected by the holders of any such class or series of stock shall be in addition to the number fixed pursuant to the preceding paragraph. Except as otherwise expressly provided pursuant to Article Fourth of the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the number of Directors that may be so elected by the holders of any such class or series of stock shall be elected for terms expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders and vacancies among Directors so elected by the separate class vote of any such class or series of stock shall be filled by the remaining Directors elected by such class or series, or, if there are no such remaining Directors, by the holders of such class or series in the same manner in which such class or series initially elected a Director.
     If at any meeting for the election of Directors, more than one class of stock, voting separately as classes, shall be entitled to elect one or more Directors and there shall be a quorum of only one such class of stock, that class of stock shall be entitled to elect its quota of Directors notwithstanding the absence of a quorum of the other class or classes of stock.
Section 2. .
Vacancies
     Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the number of Directors shall be filled by a majority of the Directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining Director, and such Directors so chosen shall hold office until the next election of Directors, and until their successors are elected and qualified.
Section 3. .
Regular Meetings
     Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at such times and places as the Board may from time to time determine.
Section 4. .
Special Meetings
     Special meetings of the Board may be called at any time, at any place and for any purpose by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President, or by any officer of the Corporation upon the request of a majority of the entire Board.
Section 5. .
Notice of Meetings
     Notice of regular meetings of the Board need not be given.
 
     Notice of every special meeting of the Board shall be given to the Directors at their usual places of business, or at such other addresses as shall have been furnished by them for the purpose. Such notice shall be given at least twelve hours (three hours if meeting is to be conducted by conference telephone) before the meeting by telephone or by being personally delivered, mailed, or electronically delivered. Such notice need not include a statement of the business to be transacted at, or the purpose of, any such meeting.
Section 6. .
Quorum
     Except as may be otherwise provided by law or in these Bylaws, the presence of one-third of the entire Board shall be necessary and sufficient to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting of the Board, and the act of a majority of such quorum shall be deemed the act of the Board.
     Less than a quorum may adjourn any meeting of the Board from time to time without notice.
Section 7. .
Participation in Meetings by Conference Telephone
     Members of the Board, or of any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of such Board or committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other and such participation shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Section 8. .
Powers
     The business, property, and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its Board of Directors, which shall have and may exercise all the powers of the Corporation to do all such lawful acts and things as are not by law, or by the Certificate of Incorporation, or by these Bylaws, directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
Section 9. .
Compensation of Directors
     Directors shall receive such compensation for their services as shall be determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board provided that Directors who are serving the Corporation as officers or employees and who receive compensation for their services as such officers or employees shall not receive any salary or other compensation for their services as Directors.
Section 10. .
Committees of the Board
     A majority of the entire Board of Directors may designate one or more standing or temporary committees consisting of one or more Directors. The Board may invest such committees with such powers and authority, subject to the limitations of law and such conditions as it may see fit.
 
Section 1. .
Election
     At any meeting of the Board, an Executive Committee, composed of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, and not less than three other members, may be elected by a majority vote of the entire Board to serve until the Board shall otherwise determine. The Chairman of the Board shall be the Chairman of the Executive Committee, unless the Board shall otherwise determine. Members of the Executive Committee shall be members of the Board.
Section 2. .
Powers
     The Executive Committee shall have and may exercise all of the powers of the Board of Directors when the Board is not in session, except that, unless specifically authorized by the Board of Directors, it shall have no power to (a) elect directors or officers; (b) alter, amend, or repeal these Bylaws or any resolution of the Board of Directors relating to the Executive Committee; (c) appoint any member of the Executive Committee; or (d) take any other action which legally may be taken only by the Board.
Section 3. .
Rules
     The Executive Committee shall adopt such rules as it may see fit with respect to the calling of its meetings, the procedure to be followed thereat, and its functioning generally. Any action taken with the written consent of all members of the Executive Committee shall be as valid and effectual as though formally taken at a meeting of said Executive Committee.
Section 4. .
Vacancies
     Vacancies in the Executive Committee may be filled at any time by a majority vote of the entire board.
Section 1. .
Number
     The officers of the Corporation shall be appointed or elected by the Board of Directors. The officers shall be a Chairman of the Board, a President, one or more Vice Chairmen, such number of Vice Presidents or other officers as the Board may from time to time determine, a Secretary, a Treasurer, and a Controller. The President shall be Chief Executive Officer unless the Board shall determine otherwise. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the Board and stockholders and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned from time to time by the Board. In the absence of the Chairman or if such office shall
 
be vacant, the lead or presiding director shall preside at all meetings of the Board and the President shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders. In the absence of a lead or presiding director, the President shall preside at all meetings of the Board, and in the absence of any of them, any other Board member designated by the Board may preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board. The Board of Directors may appoint or elect a person as a Vice Chairman without regard to whether such person is a member of the Board of Directors.
Section 2. .
Terms of Office
     All officers, agents, and employees of the Corporation shall hold their respective offices or positions at the pleasure of the Board of Directors or the appropriate appointing authority and may be removed at any time by such authority with or without cause.
Section 3. .
Duties
     The officers, agents, and employees shall perform the duties and exercise the powers usually incident to the offices or positions held by them respectively, and/or such other duties and powers as may be assigned to them from time to time by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer.
Section 1.
General.
     The Corporation shall indemnify to the full extent permitted by and in the manner permissible under the Delaware General Corporation Law, as amended from time to time (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), any person made, or threatened to be made, a party to any action, suit, or proceeding, whether criminal, civil, administrative, or investigative, by reason of the fact that such person (i) is or was a director, advisory director, or officer of the Corporation or any predecessor of the Corporation, or (ii) is or was a director, advisory director or officer of the Corporation or any predecessor of the Corporation and served any other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise as a director, advisory director, officer, partner, trustee, employee or agent at the request of the Corporation or any predecessor of the Corporation; , , that except as provided in Section 4 of this Article VI, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors.
provided
however
Section 2.
Advancement of Expenses.
     The right to indemnification conferred in this Article VI shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition, such advances to be paid by the Corporation
 
within 20 days after the receipt by the Corporation of a statement or statements from the claimant requesting such advance or advances from time to time; , , that if the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director, advisory director or officer in his or her capacity as a director, advisory director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director, advisory director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director, advisory director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such director, advisory director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Article VI or otherwise.
provided
however
Section 3.
Procedure for Indemnification.
     To obtain indemnification under this Article VI, a claimant shall submit to the Corporation a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the claimant and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the claimant is entitled to indemnification. Upon written request by a claimant for indemnification pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 3, a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to the claimant's entitlement thereto shall be made as follows: (1) if requested by the claimant, by Independent Counsel (as hereinafter defined), or (2) if no request is made by the claimant for a determination by Independent Counsel, (i) by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined), even though less than a quorum, or by a majority vote of a committee of Disinterested Directors designated by a majority vote of Disinterested Directors, even though less than a quorum, or (ii) if there are no Disinterested Directors or if the Disinterested Directors so direct, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board of Directors, a copy of which shall be delivered to the claimant, or (iii) if the Disinterested Directors so direct, by the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel at the request of the claimant, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the Board of Directors unless there shall have occurred within two years prior to the date of the commencement to the action, suit or proceeding for which indemnification is claimed a "Change of Control of the Corporation" as defined in the company's then-current Stock Incentive Plan, in which case the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the claimant unless the claimant shall request that such selection be made by the Board of Directors. If it is so determined that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, payment to the claimant shall be made within 10 days after such determination.
Section 4.
Certain Remedies.
     If a claim under Section 1 of this Article VI is not paid in full by the Corporation within thirty days after a written claim pursuant to Section 3 of this Article VI has been received by the Corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standard of
 
conduct which makes it permissible under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware for the Corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
Section 5.
Binding Effect.
     If a determination shall have been made pursuant to Section 3 of this Article VI that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, the Corporation shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to Section 4 of this Article VI.
Section 6.
Validity of this Article VI.
     The Corporation shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to Section 4 of this Article VI that the procedures and presumptions of this Article VI are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in such proceeding that the Corporation is bound by all the provisions of this Article VI.
Section 7.
Nonexclusivity, etc.
     The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this Article VI shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, By-Laws, agreement, vote of stockholders or Disinterested Directors or otherwise. No repeal or modification of this Article VI shall in any way diminish or adversely affect the rights of any present or former director, advisory director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or any predecessor thereof hereunder in respect of any occurrence or matter arising prior to any such repeal or modification.
Section 8.
Insurance.
     The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. To the extent that the Corporation maintains any policy or policies providing such insurance, each such director or officer, and each such agent or employee to whom rights to indemnification have been granted as provided in Section 9 of this Article VI, shall be covered by such policy or policies in accordance with its or their terms to the maximum extent of the coverage thereunder for any such director, officer, employee or agent.
 
Section 9.
Indemnification of Other Persons.
     The Corporation may grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any present or former employee or agent of the Corporation or any predecessor of the Corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Article VI with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors, advisory directors and officers of the Corporation.
Section 10.
Severability.
     If any provision or provisions of this Article VI shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (1) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Article VI (including, without limitation, each portion of any paragraph of this Article VI containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (2) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Article VI (including, without limitation, each such portion of any paragraph of this Article VI containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
Section 11.
Certain Definitions.
For purposes of this Article VI:
     (1) "Disinterested Director" means a director of the Corporation who is not and was not a party to the matter in respect of which indemnification is sought by the claimant.
     (2) "Independent Counsel" means a law firm, a member of a law firm, or an independent practitioner that is experienced in matters of corporation law and shall include any such person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would not have a conflict of interest in representing either the Corporation or the claimant in an action to determine the claimant's rights under this Article VI.
Section 12.
Notices.
     Any notice, request or other communication required or permitted to be given to the Corporation under this Article VI shall be in writing and either delivered in person or sent by telecopy, telex, telegram, overnight mail or courier service, or certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Secretary of the Corporation and shall be effective only upon receipt by the Secretary.
 
Section 1. .
Certificated or Uncertificated Shares
     The Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of stock either in certificated or in uncertificated form. Certificates for shares of stock shall be in such form as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe. The shares of the stock of the Corporation shall be transferable on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof in a person or by his or her attorney upon surrender for cancellation of a certificate or certificates for the same number of shares, or other evidence of ownership if no certificates shall have been issued, with an assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, and with such proof of the validity of the signature as the Corporation or its agents may reasonably require.
Section 2. .
Signatures
     The certificates of stock shall be signed by the Chairman, President, or a Vice President and by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, provided that if such certificates are signed by a transfer agent or transfer clerk and by a registrar, the signatures of such Chairman, President, Vice President, Secretary, or Assistant Secretary may be facsimiles, engraved, or printed.
Section 3. .
Replacement
     No certificate for shares of stock in the Corporation shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen, or destroyed except upon production of such evidence of such loss, theft, or destruction and upon delivery to the Corporation of a bond of indemnity in such amount, and upon such terms and secured by such surety as the Corporation or its agents may require.
Section 1. .
Seal
     The Corporation seal shall bear the name of the Corporation, the date 1929 and the words "Corporate Seal, Delaware".
Section 2. .
Fiscal Year
     The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the first day of January in each year and shall end on the thirty-first day of December following.
 
Section 1.
     These Bylaws, or any of them, may from time to time be supplemented, amended, or repealed (a) by a majority vote of the entire Board of Directors or (b) at any annual or special meeting of the stockholders.
Section 1. .
Operative Event
     The Emergency Bylaw provided in this Article X shall be operative during any emergency resulting from an attack on the United States, any nuclear or atomic incident, or other event which creates a state of disaster of sufficient severity to prevent the normal conduct and management of the affairs and business of the Corporation, notwithstanding any different provision in the preceding articles of the Bylaws or in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or in the General Corporation Law of Delaware. To the extent not inconsistent with this Emergency Bylaw, the Bylaws provided in the preceding Articles shall remain in effect during such emergency and upon the termination of such emergency the Emergency Bylaw shall cease to be operative unless and until another such emergency shall occur.
Section 2. .
Notice of Meeting
     During any such emergency, any meeting of the Board of Directors may be called by any officer of the Corporation or by any Director. Notice shall be given by such person or by any officer of the Corporation. The notice shall specify the place of the meeting, which shall be the head office of the Corporation at the time if feasible and otherwise any other place specified in the notice. The notice shall also specify the time of the meeting. Notice may be given only to such of the Directors as it may be feasible to reach at the time and by such means as may be feasible at the time, including publication or radio. If given by mail, messenger, telephone, or electronic delivery, the notice shall be addressed to the Directors at their residences or business addresses, or such other places as the person giving the notice shall deem most suitable. Notice shall be similarly given, to the extent feasible, to the other persons serving as Directors referred to in Section 3 below. Notice shall be given at least two days before the meeting if feasible in the judgment of the person giving the notice and otherwise on any shorter time he may deem necessary.
Section 3. .
Quorum
     During any such emergency, at any meeting of the Board of Directors, a quorum shall consist of one-third of the number of Directors fixed at the time pursuant to Article III of the Bylaws. If the Directors present at any particular meeting shall be fewer than the number
 
required for such quorum, other persons present, to the number necessary to make up such quorum, shall be deemed Directors for such particular meeting as determined by the following Provisions and in the following order of priority:
(a) All Executive Vice Presidents of the Corporation in order of their seniority of first election to such office, or if two or more shall have been first elected to such office on the same day, in the order of their seniority in age; and
(b) All Senior Vice Presidents of the Corporation in order of their seniority of first election to such office, or if two or more shall have been first elected to such office on the same day, in the order of their seniority in age; and
(c) All Vice Presidents of the Corporation in order of their seniority of first election to such office, or if two or more shall have been first elected to such office on the same day, in the order of their seniority in age; and
(d) Any other persons that are designated on a list that shall have been approved by the Board of Directors before the emergency, such persons to be taken in such order of priority and subject to such conditions as may be provided in the resolution approving the list.
Section 4. .
Lines of Management Succession
     The Board of Directors, during as well as before any such emergency, may provide and from time to time modify lines of succession in the event that during such an emergency any or all officers or agents of the Corporation shall for any reason be rendered incapable of discharging their duties.
Section 5. .
Office Relocation
     The Board of Directors, during as well as before any such emergency, may, effective in the emergency, change the head office or designate several alternative head offices or regional offices, or authorize the officers to do so.
Section 6. .
Liability
     No officer, director, or employee acting in accordance with this Emergency Bylaw shall be liable except for willful misconduct.
Section 7. .
Repeal or Amendment
     This Emergency Bylaw shall be subject to repeal or change by further action of the Board of Directors or by action of the stockholders, except that no such repeal or change shall modify the provisions of the next preceding paragraph with regard to action or inaction prior to the time of such repeal or change. Any such amendment of this Emergency Bylaw may make any further or different provision that may be practical and necessary for the circumstances of the emergency deems it to be in the best interest of the Corporation to do so.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1.       Purpose
     The purpose of the Plan is to promote the interests of the Company and its stockholders by aiding the Company in attracting and retaining employees, officers and non-employee Directors capable of assuring the future success of the Company, to offer such persons incentives to put forth maximum efforts for the success of the Company's business and to compensate such persons through various stock-based and other arrangements and provide them with opportunities for stock ownership in the Company, thereby aligning the interests of such persons with the Company's stockholders.
Section 2.       Definitions
     As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
     (a)       "Affiliate" shall mean (i) any entity that, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, is controlled by the Company and (ii) any entity in which the Company has a significant equity interest, in each case as determined by the Committee.
     (b)       "Award" shall mean any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Award, Dividend Equivalent, Stock Award or Other Stock-Based Award granted under the Plan.
     (c)       "Award Agreement" shall mean any written agreement, contract or other instrument or document evidencing an Award granted under the Plan. An Award Agreement may be in an electronic medium and need not that be signed by a representative of the Company or the Participant. Each Award Agreement shall be subject to the applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and any other terms and conditions (not inconsistent with the Plan) determined by the Committee.
     (d)       "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
     (e)       "Change in Control" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in an Award Agreement, or any other applicable employment or change in control agreement between the Participant and the Company.
     (f)       "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and any regulations promulgated thereunder.
     (g)       "Committee" shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board or any successor committee of the Board designated by the Board to administer the Plan. The Committee shall be comprised of not less than such number of Directors as shall be required to permit Awards granted under the Plan to qualify under Rule 16b-3, and each member of the Committee shall be a "Non-Employee Director" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 and an "outside director" within the meaning of Section 162(m). The Company expects to have the Plan administered in accordance with the requirements for the award of "qualified performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m).
     (h)       "Company" shall mean U.S. Bancorp, a Delaware corporation, or any successor corporation.
     (i)       "Director" shall mean a member of the Board.
     (j)       "Dividend Equivalent" shall mean any right granted under Section 6(e) of the Plan.
     (k)       "Eligible Person" shall mean any employee, officer or non-employee Director providing services to the Company or any Affiliate who the Committee determines to be an Eligible Person.
 
     (l)       "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
     (m)       "Fair Market Value" shall mean, with respect to any property (including, without limitation, any Shares or other securities), the fair market value of such property determined by such methods or procedures as shall be established from time to time by the Committee. Notwithstanding the foregoing and unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the Fair Market Value of a Share as of a given date shall be, if the Shares are then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the closing price of one Share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on such date or, if the New York Stock Exchange is not open for trading on such date, on the most recent preceding date when it was open for trading.
     (n)       "Incentive Stock Option" shall mean an option granted under Section 6(a) of the Plan that is intended to meet the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision.
     (o)       "Non-Qualified Stock Option" shall mean an option granted under Section 6(a) of the Plan that is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option.
     (p)       "Option" shall mean an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Qualified Stock Option.
     (q)       "Other Stock-Based Award" shall mean any right granted under Section 6(g) of the Plan.
     (r)       "Participant" shall mean an Eligible Person designated to be granted an Award under the Plan.
     (s)       "Performance Award" shall mean any right granted under Section 6(d) of the Plan.
     (t)       "Performance Goal" shall mean one or more of the following performance goals, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, applied on a corporate, subsidiary, division, business unit or line of business basis: sales, revenue, costs, expenses (including expense efficiency ratios and other expense measures), earnings (including one or more of net profit after tax, gross profit, operating profit, earnings before interest and taxes, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and net earnings), earnings per share, earnings per share from continuing operations, operating income, pre-tax income, operating income margin, net income, margins (including one or more of gross, operating and net income margins), returns (including one or more of return on actual or proforma assets, net assets, equity, investment, capital and net capital employed), stockholder return (including total stockholder return relative to an index or peer group), stock price, growth of loans and deposits, number of customers or households, economic value added, cash generation, cash flow, unit volume, working capital, market share, cost reductions and strategic plan development and implementation. Such goals may reflect absolute entity or business unit performance or a relative comparison to the performance of a peer group of entities or other external measure of the selected performance criteria. Pursuant to rules and conditions adopted by the Committee on or before the 90th day of the applicable performance period for which Performance Goals are established, the Committee may appropriately adjust any evaluation of performance under such goals to exclude the effect of certain events, including any of the following events: asset write-downs; litigation or claim judgments or settlements; changes in tax law, accounting principles or other such laws or provisions affecting reported results; severance, contract termination and other costs related to exiting certain business activities; and gains or losses from the disposition of businesses or assets or from the early extinguishment of debt.
     (u)       "Person" shall mean any individual or entity, including a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture or trust.
     (v)       "Plan" shall mean the U.S. Bancorp 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.
     (w)       "Qualifying Termination" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in any applicable Award Agreement, and, if not defined in any applicable Award Agreement, shall mean termination of employment under circumstances that, in the judgment of the Committee, warrant acceleration of the exercisability of Options or SARs or the lapse of restrictions relating to Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or other Awards under the Plan.
 
     Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, a Qualifying Termination may apply to large scale terminations of employment relating to the disposition or divestiture of business or legal entities or similar circumstances.
     (x)       "Restricted Stock" shall mean any Share granted under Section 6(c) of the Plan.
     (y)       "Restricted Stock Unit" shall mean any unit granted under Section 6(c) of the Plan evidencing the right to receive a Share (or a cash payment equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share) at some future date.
     (z)       "Rule 16b-3" shall mean Rule 16b-3 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Exchange Act or any successor rule or regulation.
     (aa)       "Section 162(m)" shall mean Section 162(m) of the Code, or any successor provision, and the applicable Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
     (bb)       "Section 409A" shall mean Section 409A of the Code, or any successor provision, and applicable Treasury Regulations and other applicable guidance thereunder
     (cc)       "Share" or "Shares" shall mean a share or shares of common stock, $.01 par value per share, of the Company or such other securities or property as may become subject to Awards pursuant to an adjustment made under Section 4(c) of the Plan.
     (dd)       "Specified Employee" shall mean a specified employee as defined in Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B) or applicable proposed or final regulations under Code Section 409A.
     (ee)       "Stock Appreciation Right" shall mean any right granted under Section 6(b) of the Plan.
     (ff)       "Stock Award" shall mean any Share granted under Section 6(f) of the Plan.
Section 3.       Administration
     (a)       . The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. Subject to the express provisions of the Plan and to applicable law, the Committee shall have full power and authority to: (i) designate Participants; (ii) determine the type or types of Awards to be granted to each Participant under the Plan; (iii) determine the number of Shares to be covered by (or the method by which payments or other rights are to be calculated in connection with) each Award; (iv) determine the terms and conditions of any Award or Award Agreement; (v) amend the terms and conditions of any Award or Award Agreement, , , that, except as otherwise permitted in connection with an event as provided under Section 4(c) hereof, the Committee shall not reprice, adjust or amend the exercise price of Options or the grant price of Stock Appreciation Rights previously awarded to any Participant, whether through amendment, cancellation and replacement grant, or any other means; (vi) accelerate the exercisability of any Award or waive any restrictions relating to any Award, , that, except as otherwise provided herein, any such acceleration of exercisability or lapse of restrictions shall be limited to accelerations relating to a Change in Control, a Qualifying Termination, death or disability; (vii) determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances Awards may be exercised in cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards or other property, or canceled, forfeited or suspended; (viii) determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards, other property and other amounts payable with respect to an Award under the Plan shall be deferred either automatically or at the election of the holder of the Award or the Committee; (ix) interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement, including any Award Agreement, relating to the Plan; (x) establish, amend, suspend or waive such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it shall deem appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan; (xi) make any other determination and take any other action that the Committee deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan; and (xii) adopt such modifications, rules, procedures, and subplans as may be necessary or desirable to comply with provisions of the laws of non-U.S. jurisdictions in which the Company or an Affiliate may operate, including, without limitation, establishing any special rules for Affiliates, Eligible Persons or Participants located in any particular country, in order to meet the objectives of the Plan and to ensure the viability
Power and Authority of the Committee
provided
however
provided, however
 
of the intended benefits of Awards granted to Participants located in such non-United States jurisdictions. Unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, all designations, determinations, interpretations and other decisions under or with respect to the Plan or any Award or Award Agreement shall be within the sole discretion of the Committee, may be made at any time and shall be final, conclusive and binding upon any Participant, any holder or beneficiary of any Award or Award Agreement, and any employee of the Company or any Affiliate.
     (b)       . The Committee may delegate its powers and duties under the Plan to one or more Directors (including a Director who is also an officer of the Company) or a committee of Directors, subject to such terms, conditions and limitations as the Committee may establish in its sole discretion; , , that the Committee shall not delegate its powers and duties under the Plan (i) with regard to officers or directors of the Company or any Affiliate who are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act or (ii) in such a manner as would cause the Plan not to comply with the requirements of Section 162(m). In addition, the Committee may authorize one or more officers of the Company to grant Options under the Plan, subject to the limitations of Section 157 of the Delaware General Corporation Law; , , that such officers shall not be authorized to grant Options to officers or directors of the Company or any Affiliate who are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
Delegation
provided
however
provided
however
     (c)       . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Board may, at any time and from time to time, without any further action of the Committee, exercise the powers and duties of the Committee under the Plan, unless the exercise of such powers and duties by the Board would cause the Plan not to comply with the requirements of Section 162(m).
Power and Authority of the Board
Section 4.       Shares Available for Awards
     (a)       . Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4(c) of the Plan, the aggregate number of Shares that may be issued under all Awards under the Plan shall be 70,000,000. Shares to be issued under the Plan will be authorized but unissued Shares or Shares that have been reacquired by the Company and designated as treasury shares. If any Shares covered by an Award or to which an Award relates are not purchased or are forfeited (including shares of Restricted Stock, whether or not dividends have been paid on such shares), or if an Award otherwise terminates or is cancelled without delivery of any Shares, then the number of Shares counted pursuant to Section 4(b) of the Plan against the aggregate number of Shares available under the Plan with respect to such Award, to the extent of any such forfeiture, termination or cancellation, shall again be available for granting Awards under the Plan. Shares tendered by Participants as full or partial payment to the Company upon exercise of an Award, and Shares withheld by or otherwise remitted to the Company to satisfy a Participant's tax withholding obligations with respect to an Award, shall not become available for issuance under the Plan.
Shares Available
     (b)       . For purposes of this Section 4, if an Award entitles the holder thereof to receive or purchase Shares, the number of Shares covered by such Award or to which such Award relates shall be counted on the date of grant of such Award against the aggregate number of Shares available for granting Awards under the Plan. For Stock Appreciation Rights settled in Shares upon exercise, the aggregate number of Shares with respect to which the Stock Appreciation Right is exercised, rather than the number of Shares actually issued upon exercise, shall be counted against the number of Shares available for Awards under the Plan. Awards that do not entitle the holder thereof to receive or purchase Shares, and Awards that are denominated at the time of grant as payable only in cash and that are settled in cash, shall not be counted against the aggregate number of Shares available for Awards under the Plan. If performance awards granted under the Company's executive incentive plans are payable in Shares, such Shares may be issued under this Plan and shall be counted against the aggregate number of Shares available for granting Awards under the Plan.
Accounting for Awards
     (c)       . In the event that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Shares, other securities or other property), stock split or a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares into a lesser number of shares, is declared with respect to the Shares, the authorization limits under Sections 4(a) and 4(d) shall be increased or decreased proportionately, and the Shares then subject to each Award shall be increased or decreased proportionately without any change in the aggregate purchase price therefor. In the event the Shares shall be changed into or exchanged for a different number or class of shares of stock or securities of the Company or of another corporation, whether through recapitalization, reorganization, reclassification, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of Shares or other securities of the Company, issuance of
Adjustments
 
warrants or other rights to purchase Shares or other securities of the Company, or any other similar corporate transaction or event affects the Shares such that an equitable adjustment would be required in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan, then the authorization limits under Sections 4(a) and 4(d) shall be adjusted proportionately, and an equitable adjustment shall be made to each Share subject to an Award such that no dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits occurs. Each such Share then subject to each Award shall be adjusted to the number and class of shares into which each outstanding Share shall be so exchanged such that no dilution or enlargement of the benefits occurs, all without change in the aggregate purchase price for the Shares then subject to each Award. Action by the Committee pursuant to this Section 4(c) may include adjustment to any or all of: (i) the number and type of Shares (or other securities or other property) that thereafter may be made the subject of Awards or be delivered under the Plan; (ii) the number and type of Shares (or other securities or other property) subject to outstanding Awards; (iii) the purchase price or exercise price of a Share under any outstanding Award or the measure to be used to determine the amount of the benefit payable on an Award; and (iv) any other adjustments the Committee determines to be equitable.
     (d)      
Award Limitations Under the Plan
     (i)       . The number of Shares available for granting any types of Awards other than Awards of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights shall not exceed 25,000,000, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4(c) hereof; pthat any Shares covered by an Award that is not an Option or Stock Appreciation Right that are forfeited shall again be available for purposes of the foregoing limitations.
Plan Limitation on Awards other than Awards of Options and Stock Appreciation Rights
rovided, however,
     (ii)       . No Eligible Person may be granted any Award or Awards under the Plan, the value of which Award or Awards is based solely on an increase in the value of the Shares after the date of grant of such Award or Awards in excess of 5,000,000 Shares (subject to adjustment as provided for in Section 4(c) of the Plan), in the aggregate in any taxable year.
Section 162(m) Limitation for Certain Types of Awards
     (iii)       . No Eligible Person may be granted Performance Awards under the Plan in excess of 800,000 Shares (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4(c) of the Plan) in the aggregate in any taxable year. The limitation contained in this Section 4(d)(iii) does not apply to any Award subject to the limitation contained in Section 4(d)(ii). The limitation contained in this Section 4(d)(iii) shall apply only with respect to Awards granted under this Plan, and limitations on awards granted under any other stockholder approved executive incentive plan maintained by the Company will be governed solely by the terms of such other plan.
Section 162(m) Limitation for Performance Awards
Section 5.       Eligibility
     Any Eligible Person shall be eligible to be designated a Participant. In determining which Eligible Persons shall receive an Award and the terms of any Award, the Committee may take into account the nature of the services rendered by the respective Eligible Persons, their present and potential contributions to the success of the Company or such other factors as the Committee, in its discretion, shall deem relevant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Incentive Stock Option may only be granted to full-time or part-time employees (which term as used herein includes, without limitation, officers and Directors who are also employees), and an Incentive Stock Option shall not be granted to an employee of an Affiliate unless such Affiliate is also a "subsidiary corporation" of the Company within the meaning of Section 424(f) of the Code or any successor provision.
Section 6.       Awards
     (a)       . The Committee is hereby authorized to grant Options to Eligible Persons with the following terms and conditions and with such additional terms and conditions not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan as the Committee shall determine:
Options
 
     (i)       . The purchase price per Share purchasable under an Option shall be determined by the Committee and shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant of such Option, , the Committee may designate a purchase price below Fair Market Value on the date of grant if the Option is granted in substitution for a stock option previously granted by an entity that is acquired or merged with the Company or an Affiliate.
Exercise Price
provided, however
     (ii)       . The term of each Option shall be fixed by the Committee but shall not be longer than 10 years from the date of grant.
Option Term
     (iii)       . The Committee shall determine the time or times at which an Option may be exercised in whole or in part and the method or methods by which, and the form or forms (including, without limitation, cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards or other property, or any combination thereof, having a Fair Market Value on the exercise date equal to the applicable exercise price) in which, payment of the exercise price with respect thereto may be made or deemed to have been made.
Time and Method of Exercise
     (b)       . The Committee is hereby authorized to grant Stock Appreciation Rights to Eligible Persons subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement. A Stock Appreciation Right granted under the Plan shall confer on the holder thereof a right to receive upon exercise thereof the excess of (i) the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of exercise (or, if the Committee shall so determine, at any time during a specified period before or after the date of exercise) over (ii) the grant price of the Stock Appreciation Right as specified by the Committee, which price shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of grant of the Stock Appreciation Right. Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, the grant price, term, methods of exercise, dates of exercise, methods of settlement and any other terms and conditions of any Stock Appreciation Right shall be as determined by the Committee. The Committee may impose such conditions or restrictions on the exercise of any Stock Appreciation Right as it may deem appropriate.
Stock Appreciation Rights
     (c)       . The Committee is hereby authorized to grant Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units to Eligible Persons with the following terms and conditions and with such additional terms and conditions not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan as the Committee shall determine:
Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units
     (i)       . Shares of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to such restrictions as the Committee may impose (including, without limitation, any limitation on the right to vote a Share of Restricted Stock or the right to receive any dividend or other right or property with respect thereto), which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such time or times, in such installments or otherwise as the Committee may deem appropriate.
Restrictions
     (ii)       . Any Restricted Stock granted under the Plan shall be issued at the time such Awards are granted and may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee may deem appropriate, including book-entry registration or issuance of a stock certificate or certificates, which certificate or certificates shall be held by the Company. Such certificate or certificates shall be registered in the name of the Participant and shall bear an appropriate legend referring to the restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock. Shares representing Restricted Stock that is no longer subject to restrictions shall be delivered to the Participant promptly after the applicable restrictions lapse or are waived. In the case of Restricted Stock Units, no Shares shall be issued at the time such Awards are granted. Upon the lapse or waiver of restrictions and the restricted period relating to Restricted Stock Units evidencing the right to receive Shares, such Shares shall be issued and delivered to the holder of the Restricted Stock Units.
Issuance and Delivery of Shares
     (iii)       . Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, upon a Participant's termination of employment or resignation or removal as a Director (in either case, as determined under criteria established by the Committee) during the applicable restriction period, all Shares of Restricted Stock and all Restricted Stock Units held by the Participant at such time shall be forfeited and reacquired by the Company; , , that the Committee may, when it finds that a waiver would be in the
Forfeiture
provided
however
 
best interest of the Company, waive in whole or in part any or all remaining restrictions with respect to Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.
     (d)       . The Committee is hereby authorized to grant Performance Awards to Eligible Persons subject to the terms of the Plan. A Performance Award granted under the Plan (i) may be denominated or payable in cash, Shares (including, without limitation, Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units), other securities, other Awards or other property and (ii) shall confer on the holder thereof the right to receive payments, in whole or in part, upon the achievement of such performance goals during such performance periods as the Committee shall establish. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the performance goals to be achieved during any performance period, the length of any performance period, the amount of any Performance Award granted, the amount of any payment or transfer to be made pursuant to any Performance Award and any other terms and conditions of any Performance Award shall be determined by the Committee. Performance Awards denominated in Shares (including, without limitation, Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units) that are granted to Eligible Persons who may be "covered employees" under Section 162(m) and that are intended to be "qualified performance based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m), to the extent required by Section 162(m), shall be conditioned solely on the achievement of one or more objective Performance Goals established by the Committee within the time prescribed by Section 162(m), and shall otherwise comply with the requirements of Section 162(m).
Performance Awards
     (e)       . The Committee is hereby authorized to grant Dividend Equivalents to Eligible Persons under which the Participant shall be entitled to receive payments (in cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards or other property as determined in the discretion of the Committee) equivalent to the amount of cash dividends paid by the Company to holders of Shares with respect to a number of Shares determined by the Committee. Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, such Dividend Equivalents may have such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may not grant Dividend Equivalents to Eligible Persons in connection with grants of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights to such Eligible Persons.
Dividend Equivalents
     (f)       . The Committee is hereby authorized to grant to Eligible Persons Shares without restrictions thereon, as deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purpose of the Plan. Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, such Stock Awards may have such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine.
Stock Awards
     (g)       . The Committee is hereby authorized to grant to Eligible Persons such other Awards that are denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, Shares (including, without limitation, securities convertible into Shares), as are deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purpose of the Plan. The Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of any Other Stock Based Awards, subject to the terms of the Plan and the Award Agreement. Any consideration paid by the Participant with respect to any Other Stock Based Awards may be paid by such method or methods and in such form or forms (including, without limitation, cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards or other property, or any combination thereof), as the Committee shall determine.
Other Stock-Based Awards
     (h)     
General.
     (i)       . Awards may be granted for no cash consideration or for any cash or other consideration as determined by the Committee or required by applicable law.
Consideration for Awards
     (ii)       . Awards may, in the discretion of the Committee, be granted either alone or in addition to, in tandem with or in substitution for any other Award or any award granted under any other plan of the Company or any Affiliate. Awards granted in addition to or in tandem with other Awards or in addition to or in tandem with awards granted under any other plan of the Company or any Affiliate may be granted either at the same time as or at a different time from the grant of such other Awards or awards.
Awards May Be Granted Separately or Together
 
     (iii)       . Subject to the terms of the Plan and of any applicable Award Agreement, payments or transfers to be made by the Company or an Affiliate upon the grant, exercise or payment of an Award may be made in such form or forms as the Committee shall determine (including, without limitation, cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards or other property or any combination thereof), and may be made in a single payment or transfer, in installments, in each case in accordance with rules and procedures established by the Committee. Such rules and procedures may include, without limitation, provisions for the payment or crediting of reasonable interest on installment or deferred payments or the grant or crediting of Dividend Equivalents with respect to installment or deferred payments.
Forms of Payment under Awards
     (iv)       . The term of each Award shall be for such period as may be determined by the Committee at the time of grant, but in no event shall any Award have a term of more than 10 years.
Term of Awards
     (v)       . Except as otherwise provided by the Committee or the terms of this Plan, no Award (other than Stock Awards) and no right under any such Award shall be transferable by a Participant other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. The Committee may establish procedures as it deems appropriate for a Participant to designate a Person or Persons, as beneficiary or beneficiaries, to exercise the rights of the Participant and receive any property distributable with respect to any Award in the event of the Participant's death. The Committee, in its discretion and subject to such additional terms and conditions as it determines, may permit a Participant to transfer a Non-Qualified Stock Option to any "family member" (as such term is defined in the General Instructions to Form S-8 (or any successor to such Instructions or such Form) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which definition currently includes certain family partnerships, foundations, trusts and other entities controlled by family members), at any time that such Participant holds such Option, provided that such transfers may not be transfers for value (as defined in the General Instructions to Form S-8, or any successor to such Instructions or such Form) and the family member may not make any subsequent transfers other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Each Award under the Plan or right under any such Award shall be exercisable during the Participant's lifetime only by the Participant (except as provided herein or in an Award Agreement or amendment thereto relating to a Non-Qualified Stock Option) or, if permissible under applicable law, by the Participant's guardian or legal representative. No Award (other than a Stock Award) or right under any such Award may be pledged, alienated, attached or otherwise encumbered, and any purported pledge, alienation, attachment or encumbrance thereof shall be void and unenforceable against the Company or any Affiliate.
Limits on Transfer of Awards
     (vi)       . All Shares or other securities delivered under the Plan pursuant to any Award or the exercise thereof shall be subject to such restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the Plan, applicable federal or state securities laws and regulatory requirements, and the Committee may cause appropriate entries to be made or legends to be placed on the certificates for such Shares or other securities to reflect such restrictions. If the Shares or other securities are traded on a securities exchange, the Company shall not be required to deliver any Shares or other securities covered by an Award unless and until such Shares or other securities have been admitted for trading on such securities exchange.
Restrictions; Securities Exchange Listing
     (vii)       . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan or any Award Agreement to the contrary, to the extent that any amount or benefit that constitutes "deferred compensation" to a Participant under Section 409A of the Code and applicable guidance thereunder is otherwise payable or distributable to a Participant under the Plan or any Award Agreement solely by reason of the occurrence of a Change in Control or due to the Participant's disability or "separation from service" (as such term is defined under Section 409A), such amount or benefit will not be payable or distributable to the Participant by reason of such circumstance unless the Committee determines in good faith that (i) the circumstances giving rise to such Change in Control, disability or separation from service meet the definition of a change in ownership or control, disability, or separation from service, as the case may be, in Section 409A(a)(2)(A) of the Code and applicable proposed or final regulations, or (ii) the payment or distribution of such amount or benefit would be exempt from the application of Section 409A by reason of
Section 409A Provisions
 
the short-term deferral exemption or otherwise. Any payment or distribution that otherwise would be made to a Participant who is a Specified Employee (as determined by the Committee in good faith) on account of separation from service may not be made before the date which is six (6) months after the date of the Specified Employee's separation from service unless the payment or distribution is exempt from the application of Section 409A by reason of the short term deferral exemption or otherwise.
Section 7.       Amendment and Termination; Corrections
     (a)       . The Board may amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate the Plan at any time; , , that, notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or any Award Agreement, prior approval of the stockholders of the Company shall be required for any amendment to the Plan that:
Amendments to the Plan
provided
however
     (i)       requires stockholder approval under the rules or regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the New York Stock Exchange or any other securities exchange that are applicable to the Company;
     (ii)       increases the number of shares authorized under the Plan as specified in Section 4(a) of the Plan;
     (iii)       increases the number of shares subject to the limitations contained in Section 4(d) of the Plan;
     (iv)       permits repricing of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, which is prohibited by Section 3(a)(v) of the Plan;
     (v)       permits the award of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights at a price less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant of such Option or Stock Appreciation Right, contrary to the provisions of Sections 6(a)(i) and 6(b)(ii) of the Plan; or
     (vi)       would cause Section 162(m) to become unavailable with respect to the Plan.
     (b)       . Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee may waive any conditions of or rights of the Company under any outstanding Award, prospectively or retroactively. Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, the Committee may amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate any outstanding Award, prospectively or retroactively, but no such action may adversely affect the rights of the holder of such Award without the consent of the Participant or holder or beneficiary thereof. The Company intends that Awards under the Plan shall satisfy the requirements of Section 409A to avoid any adverse tax results thereunder, and the Committee shall administer and interpret the Plan and all Award Agreements in a manner consistent with that intent. If any provision of the Plan or an Award Agreement would result in adverse tax consequences under Section 409A, the Committee may amend that provision (or take any other action reasonably necessary) to avoid any adverse tax results and no action taken to comply with Section 409A shall be deemed to impair or otherwise adversely affect the rights of any holder of an Award or beneficiary thereof.
Amendments to Awards
     (c)       . The Committee may correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Award or Award Agreement in the manner and to the extent it shall deem desirable to implement or maintain the effectiveness of the Plan.
Correction of Defects, Omissions and Inconsistencies
Section 8.       Income Tax Withholding
     In order to comply with all applicable federal, state, local or foreign income tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, state, local or foreign payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are the sole and absolute responsibility of a Participant, are withheld or collected from such Participant. In order to assist a Participant in paying all or a portion of the
 
applicable taxes to be withheld or collected upon exercise or receipt of (or the lapse of restrictions relating to) an Award, the Committee, in its discretion and subject to such additional terms and conditions as it may adopt, may permit the Participant to satisfy such tax obligation by (a) electing to have the Company withhold a portion of the Shares otherwise to be delivered upon exercise or receipt of (or the lapse of restrictions relating to) such Award with a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes, or (b) delivering to the Company Shares other than Shares issuable upon exercise or receipt of (or the lapse of restrictions relating to) such Award with a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes. The election, if any, must be made on or before the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is determined.
Section 9.       General Provisions
     (a)       . No Eligible Person, Participant or other Person shall have any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan, and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Eligible Persons, Participants or holders or beneficiaries of Awards under the Plan. The terms and conditions of Awards need not be the same with respect to any Participant or with respect to different Participants.
No Rights to Awards
     (b)       . No Participant shall have rights under an Award granted to such Participant unless and until an Award Agreement shall have been duly executed on behalf of the Company, and, if requested by the Company, signed by the Participant, or until such Award Agreement is delivered and accepted through any electronic medium in accordance with procedures established by the Company.
Award Agreements
     (c)       . In the event that any provision of an Award Agreement conflicts with or is inconsistent in any respect with the terms of the Plan as set forth herein or subsequently amended, the terms of the Plan shall control.
Plan Provisions Control
     (d)       . Except with respect to Restricted Stock, Stock Awards, and certain types of stock-based Performance Awards, neither a Participant nor the Participant's legal representative shall be, or have any of the rights and privileges of, a stockholder of the Company with respect to any Shares issuable upon the exercise or payment of any Award, in whole or in part, unless and until the Shares have been issued.
No Rights of Stockholders
     (e)       . Nothing contained in the Plan shall prevent the Company or any Affiliate from adopting or continuing in effect other or additional compensation plans or arrangements, and such plans or arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
No Limit on Other Compensation Plans or Arrangements
     (f)       . The grant of an Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to be retained as an employee of the Company or any Affiliate, or a Director to be retained as a Director, nor will it affect in any way the right of the Company or an Affiliate to terminate a Participant's employment at any time, with or without cause, or remove a Director in accordance with applicable law. In addition, the Company or an Affiliate may at any time dismiss a Participant from employment or remove a Director who is a Participant free from any liability or any claim under the Plan or any Award, unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or in any Award Agreement.
No Right to Employment or Directorship
     (g)       . The internal law, and not the law of conflicts, of the State of Delaware, shall govern all questions concerning the validity, construction and effect of the Plan or any Award, and any rules and regulations relating to the Plan or any Award.
Governing Law
     (h)       . If any provision of the Plan or any Award is or becomes or is deemed to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction or would disqualify the Plan or any Award under any law deemed applicable by the Committee, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to conform to applicable laws, or if it cannot be so construed or deemed amended without, in the determination of the Committee, materially altering the purpose or intent of the Plan or the Award, such provision shall be stricken as to such jurisdiction or Award, and the remainder of the Plan or any such Award shall remain in full force and effect.
Severability
 
     (i)       . Neither the Plan nor any Award shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or any Affiliate and a Participant or any other Person. To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company or any Affiliate.
No Trust or Fund Created
     (j)       . No compensation or benefit awarded to or realized by any Participant under the Plan shall be included for the purpose of computing such Participant's compensation or benefits under any pension, retirement, savings, profit sharing, group insurance, disability, welfare or other benefit plan of the Company, unless required by law or otherwise provided by such other plan.
Other Benefits
     (k)       . No fractional Shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award, and the Committee shall determine whether cash shall be paid in lieu of any fractional Share or whether such fractional Share or any rights thereto shall be canceled, terminated or otherwise eliminated.
No Fractional Shares
     (l)       . Headings are given to the sections and subsections of the Plan solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of the Plan or any provision thereof.
Headings
Section 10.       Effective Date of the Plan
     The Plan shall be subject to approval by the stockholders of the Company at the annual meeting of stockholders of the Company to be held on April 17, 2007, and the Plan shall be effective as of the date of such stockholder approval.
Section 11.       Term of the Plan
     Awards shall be granted under the Plan only during a 10-year period beginning on the effective date of the Plan or if the Plan is terminated earlier pursuant to Section 7(a) of the Plan, during the period beginning on the effective date and ending on such date of termination of the Plan. However, unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or in an applicable Award Agreement, any Award theretofore granted may extend beyond such date, and the authority of the Committee provided for hereunder with respect to the Plan and any Awards, and the authority of the Board to amend the Plan, shall extend beyond the termination of the Plan.

 
EXHIBIT 10.2
NOTE: Stock options granted to members of the Management Committee ("Optionees") of U.S. Bancorp (the "Company") after April 17, 2007 will have the terms and conditions set forth in each Optionee's grant summary (the "Grant Summary"), which can be accessed on the Citigroup/Smith Barney Benefit Access Website at www.benefitaccess.com. The Grant Summary may be viewed at any time on this Website, and the Grant Summary may also be printed out. In addition to the individual terms and conditions set forth in the Grant Summary, each stock option will have the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement below. As a condition to each stock option grant, Optionee accepts the terms and conditions of the Grant Summary and the Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement.
sets forth the terms and conditions of a stock option for the purchase of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Common Stock"), of the Company granted to each Optionee by the Company pursuant to its 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan").
THIS AGREEMENT
The Company and Optionee agree as follows:
 
 
 
3.
Effect of Termination of Employment
 
termination of the Option, exercise the Option to the extent that it was exercisable by Optionee on the date of the termination of employment, so long as Optionee has complied with the terms of any Confidentiality and Nonsolicitation Agreement. If Optionee violates the terms of any such Confidentiality and Nonsolicitation Agreement after termination of employment by reason of Early Retirement, the Option shall terminate and may no longer be exercised by Optionee upon the occurrence of any such violation. If Optionee shall die following a termination of employment by reason of Early Retirement but prior to the termination date of the Option, the Option may be exercised in accordance with its terms by the personal representatives or administrators of Optionee or by any Person or Persons to whom the Option has been transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution.
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 10.3
NOTE: Restricted stock awards made to members of the Management Committee ("Participants") of U.S. Bancorp (the "Company") after April 17, 2007 will have the terms and conditions set forth in each Participant's award summary (the "Award Summary"), which can be accessed on the Citigroup/Smith Barney Benefit Access Website at www.benefitaccess.com. The Award Summary may be viewed at any time on this Website, and the Award Summary may also be printed out. In addition to the individual terms and conditions set forth in the Award Summary, each restricted stock award will have the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement below. As a condition of each restricted stock award, Participant accepts the terms and conditions of the Award Summary and the Restricted Stock Award Agreement.
sets forth the terms and conditions of a restricted stock award of Common Stock (the "Common Stock"), par value $0.01 per share, of the Company granted to each Participant by the Company pursuant to its 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan").
THIS AGREEMENT
The Company and Participant agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
5.
Issuance and Custody of Shares
 
8.
Income Tax Withholding
In order to comply with all applicable federal or state income tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal or state payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are the sole and absolute responsibility of Participant, are withheld or collected from Participant. Participant may satisfy any applicable tax withholding obligations arising from the receipt of, or lapse of restrictions relating to, the Shares by check payable to the Company. In addition, Participant may, at Participant's election, satisfy such obligations by electing to have the Company withhold a portion of the Shares otherwise to be delivered with a Fair Market Value (as such term is defined in the Plan) equal to the amount of such taxes. The election must be made on or before the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is determined.
9.
Miscellaneous
 


