FILE:USB/USB-8K-20080318172132.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Changes in Fiscal Year.
     On March 12, 2008, U.S. Bancorp, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), filed a Certificate of Designations for the purpose of amending its Certificate of Incorporation to fix the designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights of its Series D Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share and a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (the "Preferred Stock"). A copy of the Certificate of Designations is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
     On March 17, 2008, the Company closed the sale of 20,000,000 Depositary Shares, with each Depositary Share representing ownership of 1/1,000 of a share of the Company's Preferred Stock, which were registered pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 (SEC File No. 333-124535) which was declared effective on May 12, 2005 (the "Registration Statement"). The following documents are being filed with this report on Form 8-K and shall be incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement: (i) Underwriting Agreement dated March 10, 2008, among the Company and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Lehman Brothers Inc., as representatives of the underwriters, which incorporates by reference the U.S. Bancorp Underwriting Agreement Standard Provisions (Preferred Stock, Which May Be Represented by Depositary Shares (March 22, 2006); (ii) Certificate of Designations of the Company dated March 12, 2008; (iii) Deposit Agreement dated March 17, 2008 between U.S. Bancorp and U.S. Bank National Association and the holders from time to time of the Depositary Receipts described therein; and (iv) form of Depositary Receipt.
th
     On March 17, 2008, in connection with the closing of the sale of Depositary Shares referenced above, the Company entered into a Replacement Capital Covenant (the "RCC"), whereby the Company agreed for the benefit of certain of its debtholders named therein that it would not redeem or repurchase shares of Preferred Stock, unless such repurchases or redemptions are made from the proceeds of the issuance of certain qualified securities and pursuant to the other terms and conditions set forth in the RCC. A copy of the RCC is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 1.1
EXECUTION COPY
March 10, 2008
U.S. Bancorp 800 Nicollet Mall Minneapolis, MN 55402
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     We (the "Representatives") understand that U.S. Bancorp, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to the several underwriters named in Schedule I (the "Underwriters") an aggregate of 20,000,000 Depositary Shares (the "Offered Securities"), each representing 1/1,000th of a share of the Company's Series D Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share (the "Preferred Stock"). The Preferred Stock, when issued, will be deposited against delivery of Depositary Receipts (the "Depositary Receipts"), which will evidence the Depositary Shares, that are to be issued by U.S. Bank National Association (the "Depositary") under the Deposit Agreement, to be dated March 17, 2008, among the Company, the Depositary and the holders from time to time of the Depositary Receipts issued hereunder.
     Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and incorporated by reference herein, the Company hereby agrees to sell to each of the Underwriters, and each of the Underwriters agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase the numbers of the Offered Securities set forth opposite the name of such Underwriter at a purchase price of $24.2125 per Offered Security, plus accrued distributions, if any (the "Purchase Price"); provided that, the Purchase Price per Offered Security will be $24.75 (the "Institutional Price") for sales to certain institutions. The Representatives will provide notice to the Company of the number of Offered Securities to which the Institutional Price applies. The respective number of Offered Securities to be purchased by each of the Underwriters at the foregoing prices shall be that proportion of Offered Securities which the number of Offered Securities to be purchased by such Underwriter as set forth on Schedule I bears to the aggregate number of Offered Securities (rounded as the Representatives may determine to the nearest 100 Offered Securities).
     The Offered Securities shall have the terms that are further described in the Statutory Prospectus and the term sheet specified in Schedule II hereto.
     Except as otherwise provided herein, all the provisions contained in the document entitled "U.S. Bancorp Underwriting Agreement Standard Provisions (Preferred Stock, Which May Be Represented by Depositary Shares) (March 22, 2006)" (the "Standard Underwriting Agreement") are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Underwriting Agreement to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Standard Underwriting Agreement.
 
     For the purposes of this Underwriting Agreement only, the "Applicable Time" is 5:10 p.m. (Eastern time) on the date of this Underwriting Agreement.
     For purposes of this Underwriting Agreement only, the term "Underwriters' Counsel" as used in the Standard Underwriting Agreement shall mean Shearman & Sterling LLP.
     For purposes of this Underwriting Agreement only, the term "Special Tax Counsel" as used in the Standard Underwriting Agreement shall mean Squire, Sanders & Dempsey L.L.P..
     For purposes of this Underwriting Agreement only, Article (V)(f) of the Standard Underwriting Agreement shall be deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
          "(f) The Representatives shall receive a letter dated the date of the applicable Underwriting Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, from Ernst & Young LLP, containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and the General Disclosure Package."
     Certificates for the Offered Securities purchased by each Underwriter shall be delivered by or on behalf of the Company to the Representatives for the account of such Underwriter, against payment by such Underwriter or on its behalf of the Purchase Price therefor in federal (same day) funds, on the "Closing Date," which shall be 10:00 AM (New York City time) on March 17, 2008 at the offices of Shearman & Sterling LLP, 599 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10022, or at such other place and time as the Representatives and the Company may agree upon in writing.
     This document may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same document.
 
     Please confirm your agreement by having an authorized officer sign a copy of this Agreement in the space set forth below and returning the signed copy to us.
 
 
Materials other than the Statutory Prospectus that comprise the General Disclosure Package: Final Term Sheet, dated March 10, 2008.

 
Exhibit 4.1
     U.S. Bancorp, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the ""), does hereby certify that:
Corporation
     1. On March 10, 2008, the Credit and Finance Committee (the "") of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the ""), pursuant to authority conferred upon the Committee by resolutions of the Board adopted at a meeting duly convened and held on January 21, 2003, and by Section 141(c)(2) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, duly adopted resolutions by unanimous written consent establishing the terms of the Corporation's Series D Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, $25,000 liquidation preference per share (the " "), and authorized a sub-committee of the Committee (the "") to act on behalf of the Committee in establishing the number of authorized shares and the dividend rate for the Series D Preferred Stock.
Committee
Board
Series D
Preferred Stock
Subcommittee
     2. Thereafter, on March 10, 2008, the Subcommittee duly adopted the following resolution by written consent:
     that the designations, and certain other preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Series D Preferred Stock, including those established by the Committee, and the dividend rate established hereby, are as set forth in hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference."
"RESOLVED,
Exhibit A
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designations is executed on behalf of the Corporation by its Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer this 12th day of March, 2008.
 
EXHIBIT A
          . The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be Series D Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (hereinafter referred to as the ""). Each share of Series D Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series D Preferred Stock. Series D Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, and will rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
Section 1.
Designation
Series D Preferred Stock
          . The number of authorized shares of Series D Preferred Stock shall be 20,000. Such number may from time to time be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series D Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such increase or reduction, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series D Preferred Stock.
Section 2.
Number of Shares
          . As used herein with respect to Series D Preferred Stock:
Section 3.
Definitions
     "" means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York.
Business Day
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.
Depositary Company
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Dividend Payment Date
 
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Dividend Period
     "" means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.
DTC
     "" means the Corporation's common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized over which Series D Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Junior Stock
     "" means any other class or series of stock of the Corporation that ranks on a parity with Series D Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Parity Stock
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7 hereof.
Preferred Director
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.
Series D Preferred Stock
          .
Section 4.
Dividends
               . Holders of Series D Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share of Series D Preferred Stock, and no more, payable quarterly in arrears on each January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15; , , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a ""). The period from and including the date of issuance of the Series D Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a "." Dividends on each share of Series D Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share at a rate equal to 7.875%. The record date for payment of dividends on the Series D Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls. The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed.
(a)
Rate
provided
however
Dividend Payment Date
Dividend Period
per annum
               . Dividends on shares of Series D Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series D Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series D Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period
(b)
Non-Cumulative Dividends
 
with respect to Series D Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation.
               . So long as any share of Series D Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such securities by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to offers to purchase all, or a portion, of the Series D Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series D Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. When dividends are not paid in full upon the shares of Series D Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock, all dividends declared upon shares of Series D Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock shall be declared on a proportional basis so that the amount of dividends declared per share will bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends for the then-current Dividend Period per share on Series D Preferred Stock, and accrued dividends, including any accumulations, on Parity Stock, bear to each other. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series D Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. If the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide, or cause to be provided, written notice to the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock prior to such date. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available therefor, and the shares of Series D Preferred Stock or Parity Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.
(c) 
Priority of Dividends
pro rata
pro rata
          .
Section 5.
Liquidation Rights
               . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series D Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series D Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation's depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any
(a)
Liquidation
 
undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holder of Series D Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.
               . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends to all holders of Series D Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series D Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends of Series D Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.
(b)
Partial Payment
pro rata
               . If the liquidation preference plus any authorized, declared and unpaid dividends has been paid in full to all holders of Series D Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.
(c)
Residual Distributions
               . For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
(d)
Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
          .
Section 6.
Redemption
               . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem in whole or in part the shares of Series D Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on or after the Dividend Payment Date in April 201, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series D Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid.
(a)
Optional Redemption
3
               . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series D Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series D Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.
(b)
Notice of Redemption
 
Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series D Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series D Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series D Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed by such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date.
               . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series D Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series D Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either from the holders of record of Series D Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series D Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series D Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.
(c)
Partial Redemption
pro rata
               . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the "") in trust for the benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to
(d)
Effectiveness of Redemption
pro rata
Depositary Company
pro rata
 
the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest.
          . The holders of Series D Preferred Stock will have no voting rights and will not be entitled to elect any directors, except as expressly provided by law and except that:
Section 7.
Voting Rights
               . Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66-2/3% of all of the shares the Series D Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, voting separately as a class, shall be required to authorize any amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation or of any certificate amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto (including any certificate of designations or any similar document relating to any series of preferred stock) which will materially and adversely affect the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the Series D Preferred Stock, taken as a whole; provided, however, that any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series D Preferred Stock or authorized preferred stock of the Corporation or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of other series of preferred stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series D Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the powers, preferences, privileges or rights of the Series D Preferred Stock.
(a)
Supermajority Voting RightsAmendments
               . Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66-2/3% of all of the shares of the Series D Preferred Stock and all other Parity Stock, at the time outstanding, voting as a single class without regard to series, shall be required to issue, authorize or increase the authorized amount of, or to issue or authorize any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing the right to purchase, any additional class or series of stock ranking prior to the shares of the Series D Preferred Stock and all other Parity Stock as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;
(b)
Supermajority Voting RightsPriority
               .
(c)
Special Voting Right
                         . If and whenever dividends on the Series D Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series D Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(c) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal, as to any class or series, to at least six quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not), the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rightswhether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of
(i)
Voting Right
,
 
directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation's securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series D Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series D Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends is a "".
Preferred Director
                         . The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series D Preferred Stock and any other class or series of the Corporation's stock that ranks on parity with Series D Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid, called as provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(c)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series D Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation's principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series D Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series D Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(c)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.
(ii)
Election
                         . Notice for a special meeting will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation's by-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series D Preferred Stock may (at the Corporation's expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(c)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of the Corporation's stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(c)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having
(iii)
Notice for Special Meeting
 
equivalent voting rightswhether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders.
,
                         . Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series D Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series D Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for at least four consecutive Dividend Periods, then the right of the holders of Series D Preferred Stock to elect such additional two directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods). The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate and the number of directors constituting the Corporation's board of directors will be reduced accordingly. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series D Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rightswhether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 7(c).
(iv)
Termination; Removal
,
          The holders of Series D Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such Series D Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.
Section 8.
Conversion.
          . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the vote of the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or, subject to the voting rights granted in Section 7(b), any class of securities ranking senior to the Series D Preferred Stock as to dividends and the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.
Section 9.
Rank
          . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series D Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine; , , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.
Section 10.
Repurchase
provided
however
          . Shares of Series D Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series.
Section 11.
Unissued or Reacquired Shares
 
          . Shares of Series D Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.
Section 12.
No Sinking Fund

 
Exhibit 4.2
     THIS CERTIFIES THAT is the owner of fully paid and non-assessable shares of Series D Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share, liquidation preference of $25,000.00 per share, of
U.S. Bank National Association, as depositary
Twenty Thousand (20,000)
(the "Corporation") transferable on the books of the Corporation by the holder hereof in person or by its duly authorized attorney, upon surrender of this Certificate properly endorsed. This Certificate and the shares represented hereby are issued and shall be held subject to all of the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and the By-laws of the Corporation and any amendments thereto. This Certificate is not valid unless countersigned and registered by the Registrar.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate to be executed on its behalf by its duly authorized officers.
 
The Corporation will furnish to any shareholder, on request, without charge and in writing, a full statement of the powers, designations and any preferences, conversion and other rights, restrictions, limitations as to dividends and other distributions, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption of the stock of each class which the Corporation has authority to issue and, if the Corporation is authorized to issue any preferred or special class in series, (i) the differences in the relative rights and preferences between the shares of each series to the extent set, and (ii) the authority of the Board of Directors to set such rights and preferences of subsequent series. The foregoing summary does not purport to be complete and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by reference to the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended from time to time, a copy of which will be sent without charge to each shareholder who so requests. Such request must be made to the Secretary of the Corporation at its principal office or to the Registrar.
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this Certificate, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
Additional abbreviations by also be used though not in the above list.
     
 
     
 
() shares represented by this Certificate and do hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint Attorney to transfer the said shares on the books of the Corporation, with full power of substitution in the premises.
                     
                     
                     
                     
                    
                    

 
Exhibit 4.3
 
Page
 
 
     DEPOSIT AGREEMENT dated as of March 17, 2008, among (i) U.S. BANCORP, a Delaware corporation, (ii) U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking association formed under the laws of the United States, and (iii) the Holders from time to time of the Receipts described herein.
     WHEREAS, it is desired to provide, as hereinafter set forth in this Deposit Agreement, for the deposit of shares of Series D Preferred Stock of the Corporation from time to time with the Depositary for the purposes set forth in this Deposit Agreement and for the issuance hereunder of Receipts evidencing Depositary Shares in respect of the Series D Preferred Stock so deposited; and
     WHEREAS, the Receipts are to be substantially in the form of Exhibit A annexed hereto, with appropriate insertions, modifications and omissions, as hereinafter provided in this Deposit Agreement;
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the parties hereto agree as follows:
          Section 1.1 Definitions.
     The following definitions shall for all purposes, unless otherwise indicated, apply to the respective terms used in this Deposit Agreement:
     "Certificate" shall mean the relevant Certificate of Designations filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware establishing the Series D Preferred Stock as a series of preferred stock of the Corporation.
     "Corporation" shall mean U.S. Bancorp, a Delaware corporation, and its successors.
     "Deposit Agreement" shall mean this Deposit Agreement, as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof.
     "Depositary" shall mean U.S. Bank National Association, a national banking association formed under the laws of the United States, and any successor as Depositary hereunder.
     "Depositary Shares" shall mean the depositary shares, each representing one-one thousandth of one share of the Series D Preferred Stock, evidenced by a Receipt.
     "Depositary's Agent" shall mean an agent appointed by the Depositary pursuant to Section 7.5.
 
     "Depositary's Office" shall mean the principal office of the Depositary in New York, New York, at which at any particular time its depositary receipt business shall be administered.
     "Officer's Certificate" means a certificate in substantially the form set forth as Exhibit B hereto, which is signed by an officer of the Corporation and which shall include the terms and conditions of the Series D Preferred Stock to be issued by the Corporation and deposited with the Depositary from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof.
     "Receipt" shall mean one of the depositary receipts issued hereunder, substantially in the form set forth as Exhibit A hereto, whether in definitive or temporary form, and evidencing the number of Depositary Shares with respect to the Series D Preferred Stock held of record by the Record Holder of such Depositary Shares.
     "Record Holder" or "Holder" as applied to a Receipt shall mean the person in whose name such Receipt is registered on the books of the Depositary maintained for such purpose.
     "Registrar" shall mean the Depositary or such other successor bank or trust company which shall be appointed by the Corporation to register ownership and transfers of Receipts as herein provided and if a successor Registrar shall be so appointed, references herein to "the books" of or maintained by the Depository shall be deemed, as applicable, to refer as well to the register maintained by such Registrar for such purpose.
     "Securities Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
     "Series D Preferred Stock" shall mean the shares of the Corporation's Series D Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value, with a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, designated in the Certificate and described in the Officer's Certificate delivered pursuant to Section 2.2 hereof.
     Section 2.1. Form and Transfer of Receipts.
     The definitive Receipts shall be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit A annexed to this Agreement, with appropriate insertions, modifications and omissions, as hereinafter provided and shall be engraved or otherwise prepared so as to comply with applicable rules of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Pending the preparation of definitive Receipts, the Depositary, upon the written order of the Corporation, delivered in compliance with Section 2.2, shall execute and deliver temporary Receipts which may be printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise substantially of the tenor of the definitive Receipts in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the persons executing such Receipts may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Receipts. If temporary Receipts are issued, the Corporation and the Depositary will cause definitive Receipts to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive
 
Receipts, the temporary Receipts shall be exchangeable for definitive Receipts upon surrender of the temporary Receipts at an office described in the penultimate paragraph of Section 2.2, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Receipts, the Depositary shall execute and deliver in exchange therefor definitive Receipts representing the same number of Depositary Shares as represented by the surrendered temporary Receipt or Receipts. Such exchange shall be made at the Corporation's expense and without any charge therefor. Until so exchanged, the temporary Receipts shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Agreement as definitive Receipts.
     Receipts shall be executed by the Depositary by the manual signature of a duly authorized officer of the Depositary; provided, that such signature may be a facsimile if a Registrar for the Receipts (other than the Depositary) shall have been appointed and such Receipts are countersigned by manual signature by a duly authorized officer of the Registrar. No Receipt shall be entitled to any benefits under this Deposit Agreement or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless it shall have been executed manually by a duly authorized officer of the Depositary or, if a Registrar for the Receipts (other than the Depositary) shall have been appointed, by manual or facsimile signature of a duly authorized officer of the Depositary and countersigned by manual signature by a duly authorized officer of such Registrar. The Depositary shall record on its books each Receipt so signed and delivered as hereinafter provided.
     Receipts shall be in denominations of any number of whole Depositary Shares.
     Receipts may be endorsed with or have incorporated in the text thereof such legends or recitals or changes not inconsistent with the provisions of this Deposit Agreement all as may be required by the Depositary and approved by the Corporation or required to comply with any applicable law or any regulation thereunder or with the rules and regulations of any securities exchange upon which the Series D Preferred Stock, the Depositary Shares or the Receipts may be listed or to conform with any usage with respect thereto, or to indicate any special limitations or restrictions to which any particular Receipts are subject.
     Title to Depositary Shares evidenced by a Receipt which is properly endorsed or accompanied by a properly executed instrument of transfer, shall be transferable by delivery with the same effect as in the case of a negotiable instrument; provided, however, that until transfer of any particular Receipt shall be registered on the books of the Depositary as provided in Section 2.3, the Depositary may, notwithstanding any notice to the contrary, treat the Record Holder thereof at such time as the absolute owner thereof for the purpose of determining the person entitled to distributions of dividends or other distributions or to any notice provided for in this Deposit Agreement and for all other purposes.
     Section 2.2. Deposit of Series D Preferred Stock; Execution and Delivery of Receipts in Respect Thereof.
     Subject to the terms and conditions of this Deposit Agreement, the Corporation may from time to time deposit shares of Series D Preferred Stock under this Deposit Agreement by delivery to the Depositary of a certificate or certificates for such shares of Series D Preferred Stock to be deposited, properly endorsed or accompanied, if required by the Depositary, by a duly executed instrument of transfer or endorsement, in form satisfactory to the Depositary, together
 
with all such certifications as may be required by the Depositary in accordance with the provisions of this Deposit Agreement and an executed Officer's Certificate attaching the Certificate and all other information required to be set forth therein, and together with a written order of the Corporation directing the Depositary to execute and deliver to, or upon the written order of, the person or persons stated in such order a Receipt or Receipts evidencing in the aggregate the number of Depositary Shares representing such deposited Series D Preferred Stock. Each Officer's Certificate delivered to the Depositary in accordance with the terms of this Deposit Agreement shall be deemed to be incorporated into this Deposit Agreement and shall be binding on the Corporation, the Depositary and the Holders of Receipts to which such Officer's Certificate relates.
          The Series D Preferred Stock that is deposited shall be held by the Depositary at the Depositary's Office or at such other place or places as the Depositary shall determine. The Depositary shall not lend any Series D Preferred Stock deposited hereunder.
          Upon receipt by the Depositary of a certificate or certificates for Series D Preferred Stock deposited in accordance with the provisions of this Section, together with the other documents required as above specified, and upon recordation of the Series D Preferred Stock on the books of the Corporation (or its duly appointed transfer agent) in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, the Depositary, subject to the terms and conditions of this Deposit Agreement, shall execute and deliver to or upon the order of the person or persons named in the written order delivered to the Depositary referred to in the first paragraph of this Section, a Receipt or Receipts evidencing in the aggregate the number of Depositary Shares representing the Series D Preferred Stock so deposited and registered in such name or names as may be requested by such person or persons. The Depositary shall execute and deliver such Receipt or Receipts at the Depositary's Office or such other offices, if any, as the Depositary may designate. Delivery at other offices shall be at the risk and expense of the person requesting such delivery.
          Section 2.3. Registration of Transfer of Receipts.
          Subject to the terms and conditions of this Deposit Agreement, the Depositary shall register on its books from time to time transfers of Receipts upon any surrender thereof by the Holder in person or by duly authorized attorney, properly endorsed or accompanied by a properly executed instrument of transfer. Thereupon, the Depositary shall execute a new Receipt or Receipts evidencing the same aggregate number of Depositary Shares as those evidenced by the Receipt or Receipts surrendered and deliver such new Receipt or Receipts to or upon the order of the person entitled thereto.
          Section 2.4. Split-ups and Combinations of Receipts; Surrender of Receipts and Withdrawal of Series D Preferred Stock.
          Upon surrender of a Receipt or Receipts at the Depositary's Office or at such other offices as it may designate for the purpose of effecting a split-up or combination of such Receipt or Receipts, and subject to the terms and conditions of this Deposit Agreement, the Depositary shall execute a new Receipt or Receipts in the authorized denomination or denominations requested, evidencing the aggregate number of Depositary Shares evidenced by the Receipt or Receipts surrendered, and shall deliver such new Receipt or Receipts to or upon the order of the Holder of the Receipt or Receipts so surrendered.
 
          Any Holder of a Receipt or Receipts may withdraw the number of whole shares of Series D Preferred Stock and all money and other property, if any, represented thereby by surrendering such Receipt or Receipts at the Depositary's Office or at such other offices as the Depositary may designate for such withdrawals. Thereafter, without unreasonable delay, the Depositary shall deliver to such Holder, or to the person or persons designated by such Holder as hereinafter provided, the number of whole shares of Series D Preferred Stock and all money and other property, if any, represented by the Receipt or Receipts so surrendered for withdrawal, but Holders of such whole shares of Series D Preferred Stock will not thereafter be entitled to deposit such Series D Preferred Stock hereunder or to receive a Receipt evidencing Depositary Shares therefor. If a Receipt delivered by the Holder to the Depositary in connection with such withdrawal shall evidence a number of Depositary Shares in excess of the number of Depositary Shares representing the number of whole shares of Series D Preferred Stock, Depositary shall at the same time, in addition to such number of whole shares of Series D Preferred Stock and such money and other property, if any, to be so withdrawn, deliver to such Holder, or subject to Section 2.3 upon his order, a new Receipt evidencing such excess number of Depositary Shares.
          In no event will fractional shares of Series D Preferred Stock (or any cash payment in lieu thereof) be delivered by the Depositary. Delivery of the Series D Preferred Stock and money and other property, if any, being withdrawn may be made by the delivery of such certificates, documents of title and other instruments as the Depositary may deem appropriate.
          If the Series D Preferred Stock and the money and other property, if any, being withdrawn are to be delivered to a person or persons other than the Record Holder of the related Receipt or Receipts being surrendered for withdrawal of such Series D Preferred Stock, such Holder shall execute and deliver to the Depositary a written order so directing the Depositary and the Depositary may require that the Receipt or Receipts surrendered by such Holder for withdrawal of such shares of Series D Preferred Stock be properly endorsed in blank or accompanied by a properly executed instrument of transfer in blank.
          Delivery of the Series D Preferred Stock and the money and other property, if any, represented by Receipts surrendered for withdrawal shall be made by the Depositary at the Depositary's Office, except that, at the request, risk and expense of the Holder surrendering such Receipt or Receipts and for the account of the Holder thereof, such delivery may be made at such other place as may be designated by such Holder.
          Section 2.5. Limitations on Execution and Delivery, Transfer, Surrender and Exchange of Receipts.
          As a condition precedent to the execution and delivery, registration of transfer, split-up, combination, surrender or exchange of any Receipt, the Depositary, any of the Depositary's Agents or the Corporation may require payment to it of a sum sufficient for the payment (or, in the event that the Depositary or the Corporation shall have made such payment, the reimbursement to it) of any charges or expenses payable by the Holder of a Receipt pursuant to Section 5.7, may require the production of evidence satisfactory to it as to the identity and genuineness of any signature, and may also require compliance with such regulations, if any, as the Depositary or the Corporation may establish consistent with the provisions of this Deposit Agreement and/or applicable law.
 
          The deposit of the Series D Preferred Stock may be refused, the delivery of Receipts against Series D Preferred Stock may be suspended, the registration of transfer of Receipts may be refused and the registration of transfer, surrender or exchange of outstanding Receipts may be suspended (i) during any period when the register of stockholders of the Corporation is closed or (ii) if any such action is deemed necessary or advisable by the Depositary, any of the Depositary's Agents or the Corporation at any time or from time to time because of any requirement of law or of any government or governmental body or commission or under any provision of this Deposit Agreement.
          Section 2.6. Lost Receipts, etc.
          In case any Receipt shall be mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen, the Depositary in its discretion may execute and deliver a Receipt of like form and tenor in exchange and substitution for such mutilated Receipt, or in lieu of and in substitution for such destroyed, lost or stolen Receipt, upon (i) the filing by the Holder thereof with the Depositary of evidence satisfactory to the Depositary of such destruction or loss or theft of such Receipt, of the authenticity thereof and of his or her ownership thereof and (ii) the Holder thereof furnishing of the Depositary with reasonable indemnification satisfactory to the Depositary.
          Section 2.7. Cancellation and Destruction of Surrendered Receipts.
          All Receipts surrendered to the Depositary or any Depositary's Agent shall be cancelled by the Depositary. Except as prohibited by applicable law or regulation, the Depositary is authorized and directed to destroy all Receipts so cancelled.
          Section 2.8. Redemption of Series D Preferred Stock.
          Whenever the Corporation shall be permitted and shall elect to redeem shares of Series D Preferred Stock in accordance with the terms of the Certificate, it shall (unless otherwise agreed to in writing with the Depositary) give or cause to be given to the Depositary, not less than 30 days and not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date (as defined below), notice of the date of such proposed redemption of Series D Preferred Stock and of the number of such shares held by the Depositary to be so redeemed and the applicable redemption price, which notice shall be accompanied by a certificate from the Corporation stating that such redemption of Series D Preferred Stock is in accordance with the provisions of the Certificate. On the date of such redemption, provided that the Corporation shall then have paid or caused to be paid in full to the Depositary the redemption price of the Series D Preferred Stock to be redeemed, plus an amount equal to any declared and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, in accordance with the provisions of the Certificate, the Depositary shall redeem the number of Depositary Shares representing such Series D Preferred Stock. The Depositary shall mail notice of the Corporation's redemption of Series D Preferred Stock and the proposed simultaneous redemption of the number of Depositary Shares representing the Series D Preferred Stock to be redeemed by first-class mail, postage prepaid, not less than 30 days and not more than 60 days prior to the date
 
fixed for redemption of such Series D Preferred Stock and Depositary Shares (the "Redemption Date"), to the Record Holders of the Receipts evidencing the Depositary Shares to be so redeemed at their respective last addresses as they appear on the records of the Depositary; but neither failure to mail any such notice of redemption of Depositary Shares to one or more such Holders nor any defect in any notice of redemption of Depositary Shares to one or more such Holders shall affect the sufficiency of the proceedings for redemption as to the other Holders. Each such notice shall be prepared by the Corporation and shall state: (i) the Redemption Date; (ii) the number of Depositary Shares to be redeemed and, if less than all the Depositary Shares held by any such Holder are to be redeemed, the number of such Depositary Shares held by such Holder to be so redeemed; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where Receipts evidencing such Depositary Shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends in respect of the Series D Preferred Stock represented by such Depositary Shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such Redemption Date. In case less than all the outstanding Depositary Shares are to be redeemed, the Depositary Shares to be so redeemed shall be selected either pro rata or by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable.
          Notice having been mailed by the Depositary as aforesaid, from and after the Redemption Date (unless the Corporation shall have failed to provide the funds necessary to redeem the Series D Preferred Stock evidenced by the Depositary Shares called for redemption) (i) dividends on the shares of Series D Preferred Stock so called for Redemption shall cease to accrue from and after such date, (ii) the Depositary Shares being redeemed from such proceeds shall be deemed no longer to be outstanding, (iii) all rights of the Holders of Receipts evidencing such Depositary Shares (except the right to receive the redemption price) shall, to the extent of such Depositary Shares, cease and terminate, and (iv) upon surrender in accordance with such redemption notice of the Receipts evidencing any such Depositary Shares called for redemption (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Depositary or applicable law shall so require), such Depositary Shares shall be redeemed by the Depositary at a redemption price per Depositary Share equal to one-one thousandth of the redemption price per share of Series D Preferred Stock so redeemed plus all money and other property, if any, represented by such Depositary Shares, including all amounts paid by the Corporation in respect of dividends which on the Redemption Date have been declared on the shares of Series D Preferred Stock to be so redeemed and have not therefore been paid.
          If fewer than all of the Depositary Shares evidenced by a Receipt are called for redemption, the Depositary will deliver to the Holder of such Receipt upon its surrender to the Depositary, together with the redemption payment, a new Receipt evidencing the Depositary Shares evidenced by such prior Receipt and not called for redemption.
          Section 3.1. Filing Proofs, Certificates and Other Information.
          Any Holder of a Receipt may be required from time to time to file such proof of residence, or other matters or other information, to execute such certificates and to make such
 
representations and warranties as the Depositary or the Corporation may reasonably deem necessary or proper. The Depositary or the Corporation may withhold the delivery, or delay the registration of transfer or redemption, of any Receipt or the withdrawal of the Series D Preferred Stock represented by the Depositary Shares and evidenced by a Receipt or the distribution of any dividend or other distribution or the sale of any rights or of the proceeds thereof until such proof or other information is filed or such certificates are executed or such representations and warranties are made.
          Section 3.2. Payment of Taxes or Other Governmental Charges.
          Holders of Receipts shall be obligated to make payments to the Depositary of certain charges and expenses, as provided in Section 5.7. Registration of transfer of any Receipt or any withdrawal of Series D Preferred Stock and all money or other property, if any, represented by the Depositary Shares evidenced by such Receipt may be refused until any such payment due is made, and any dividends, interest payments or other distributions may be withheld or any part of or all the Series D Preferred Stock or other property represented by the Depositary Shares evidenced by such Receipt and not theretofore sold may be sold for the account of the Holder thereof (after attempting by reasonable means to notify such Holder prior to such sale), and such dividends, interest payments or other distributions or the proceeds of any such sale may be applied to any payment of such charges or expenses, the Holder of such Receipt remaining liable for any deficiency.
          Section 3.3. Warranty as to Series D Preferred Stock.
          The Corporation hereby represents and warrants that the Series D Preferred Stock, when issued, will be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable. Such representation and warranty shall survive the deposit of the Series D Preferred Stock and the issuance of the related Receipts.
          Section 3.4. Warranty as to Receipts.
          The Corporation hereby represents and warrants that the Receipts, when issued, will represent legal and valid interests in the Series D Preferred Stock. Such representation and warranty shall survive the deposit of the Series D Preferred Stock and the issuance of the Receipts.
          Section 4.1. Cash Distributions.
          Whenever the Depositary shall receive any cash dividend or other cash distribution on the Series D Preferred Stock, the Depositary shall, subject to Sections 3.1 and 3.2, distribute to Record Holders of Receipts on the record date fixed pursuant to Section 4.4 such amounts of such dividend or distribution as are, as nearly as practicable, in proportion to the respective numbers of Depositary Shares evidenced by the Receipts held by such Holders; provided, however, that in case the Corporation or the Depositary shall be required to withhold and shall withhold from any cash dividend or other cash distribution in respect of the Series D Preferred Stock an amount on account of taxes, the amount made available for distribution or distributed in respect of Depositary
 
Shares shall be reduced accordingly. The Depositary shall distribute or make available for distribution, as the case may be, only such amount, however, as can be distributed without attributing to any Holder of Receipts a fraction of one cent, and any balance not so distributable shall be held by the Depositary (without liability for interest thereon) and shall be added to and be treated as part of the next sum received by the Depositary for distribution to Record Holders of Receipts then outstanding. Each Holder of a Receipt shall provide the Depositary with its certified tax identification number on a properly completed Form W-8 or W-9, as may be applicable. Each Holder of a Receipt acknowledges that, in the event of non-compliance with the preceding sentence, the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, may require withholding by the Depositary of a portion of any of the distributions to be made hereunder.
          Section 4.2. Distributions Other than Cash, Rights, Preferences or Privileges.
          Whenever the Depositary shall receive any distribution other than cash, rights, preferences or privileges upon the Series D Preferred Stock, the Depositary shall, subject to Sections 3.1 and 3.2, distribute to Record Holders of Receipts on the record date fixed pursuant to Section 4.4 such amounts of the securities or property received by it as are, as nearly as practicable, in proportion to the respective numbers of Depositary Shares evidenced by such Receipts held by such Holders, in any manner that the Depositary may deem equitable and practicable for accomplishing such distribution. If in the opinion of the Depositary such distribution cannot be made proportionately among such Record Holders, or if for any other reason (including any requirement that the Corporation or the Depositary withhold an amount on account of taxes) the Depositary deems, after consultation with the Corporation, such distribution not to be feasible, the Depositary may, with the approval of the Corporation, adopt such method as it deems equitable and practicable for the purpose of effecting such distribution, including the sale (at public or private sale) of the securities or property thus received, or any part thereof, in a commercially reasonable manner. The net proceeds of any such sale shall, subject to Sections 3.1 and 3.2, be distributed or made available for distribution, as the case may be, by the Depositary to Record Holders of Receipts as provided by Section 4.1 in the case of a distribution received in cash. The Corporation shall not make any distribution of such securities or property to the Depositary and the Depositary shall not make any distribution of such securities or property to the Holders of Receipts unless the Corporation shall have provided an opinion of counsel stating that such securities or property have been registered under the Securities Act or do not need to be registered in connection with such distributions.
          Section 4.3. Subscription Rights, Preferences or Privileges.
          If the Corporation shall at any time offer or cause to be offered to the persons in whose names the Series D Preferred Stock is recorded on the books of the Corporation any rights, preferences or privileges to subscribe for or to purchase any securities or any rights, preferences or privileges of any other nature, such rights, preferences or privileges shall in each such instance be made available by the Depositary to the Record Holders of Receipts in such manner as the Depositary may determine, either by the issue to such Record Holders of warrants representing such rights, preferences or privileges or by such other method as may be approved by the Depositary in its discretion with the approval of the Corporation; provided, however, that (i) if at the time of issue or offer of any such rights, preferences or privileges the Depositary determines that it is not lawful or (after consultation with the Corporation) not feasible to make such rights,
 
preferences or privileges available to Holders of Receipts by the issue of warrants or otherwise, or (ii) if and to the extent so instructed by Holders of Receipts who do not desire to exercise such rights, preferences or privileges, then the Depositary, in its discretion (with approval of the Corporation, in any case where the Depositary has determined that it is not feasible to make such rights, preferences or privileges available), may, if applicable laws or the terms of such rights, preferences or privileges permit such transfer, sell such rights, preferences or privileges at public or private sale, at such place or places and upon such terms as it may deem proper. The net proceeds of any such sale shall, subject to Sections 3.1 and 3.2, be distributed by the Depositary to the Record Holders of Receipts entitled thereto as provided by Section 4.1 in the case of a distribution received in cash.
          The Corporation shall notify the Depositary whether registration under the Securities Act of the securities to which any rights, preferences or privileges relate is required in order for Holders of Receipts to be offered or sold the securities to which such rights, preferences or privileges relate, and the Corporation agrees with the Depositary that it will file promptly a registration statement pursuant to the Securities Act with respect to such rights, preferences or privileges and securities and use its best efforts and take all steps available to it to cause such registration statement to become effective sufficiently in advance of the expiration of such rights, preferences or privileges to enable such Holders to exercise such rights, preferences or privileges. In no event shall the Depositary make available to the Holders of Receipts any right, preference or privilege to subscribe for or to purchase any securities unless and until such registration statement shall have become effective, or the Corporation shall have provided to the Depositary an opinion of counsel to the effect that the offering and sale of such securities to the Holders are exempt from registration under the provisions of the Securities Act.
          The Corporation shall notify the Depositary whether any other action under the laws of any jurisdiction or any governmental or administrative authorization, consent or permit is required in order for such rights, preferences or privileges to be made available to Holders of Receipts, and the Corporation agrees with the Depositary that the Corporation will use its reasonable best efforts to take such action or obtain such authorization, consent or permit sufficiently in advance of the expiration of such rights, preferences or privileges to enable such Holders to exercise such rights, preferences or privileges.
          Section 4.4. Notice of Dividends, etc.; Fixing Record Date for Holders of Receipts.
          Whenever any cash dividend or other cash distribution shall become payable or any distribution other than cash shall be made, or if rights, preferences or privileges shall at any time be offered, with respect to the Series D Preferred Stock, or whenever the Depositary shall receive notice of any meeting at which holders of the Series D Preferred Stock are entitled to vote or of which holders of the Series D Preferred Stock are entitled to notice, or whenever the Depositary and the Corporation shall decide it is appropriate, the Depositary shall in each such instance fix a record date (which shall be the same date as the record date fixed by the Corporation with respect to or otherwise in accordance with the terms of the Series D Preferred Stock) for the determination of the Holders of Receipts who shall be entitled to receive such dividend, distribution, rights, preferences or privileges or the net proceeds of the sale thereof, or to give instructions for the exercise of voting rights at any such meeting, or who shall be entitled to notice of such meeting or for any other appropriate reasons.
 
          Section 4.5. Voting Rights.
          Subject to the provisions of the Certificate, upon receipt of notice of any meeting at which the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, the Depositary shall, as soon as practicable thereafter, mail to the Record Holders of Receipts a notice prepared by the Corporation which shall contain (i) such information as is contained in such notice of meeting and (ii) a statement that the Holders may, subject to any applicable restrictions, instruct the Depositary as to the exercise of the voting rights pertaining to the amount of Series D Preferred Stock represented by their respective Depositary Shares (including an express indication that instructions may be given to the Depositary to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by the Corporation) and a brief statement as to the manner in which such instructions may be given. Upon the written request of the Holders of Receipts on the relevant record date, the Depositary shall endeavor insofar as practicable to vote or cause to be voted, in accordance with the instructions set forth in such requests, the maximum number of whole shares of Series D Preferred Stock represented by the Depositary Shares evidenced by all Receipts as to which any particular voting instructions are received. The Corporation hereby agrees to take all reasonable action which may be deemed necessary by the Depositary in order to enable the Depositary to vote such Series D Preferred Stock or cause such Series D Preferred Stock to be voted. In the absence of specific instructions from Holders of Receipts, the Depositary will vote the Series D Preferred Stock represented by the Depositary Shares evidenced by the Receipts of such Holders proportionately with votes cast pursuant to instructions received from the other Holders.
          Section 4.6. Changes Affecting Deposited Securities and Reclassifications, Recapitalizations, etc.
          Upon any change in par or stated value, split-up, combination or any other reclassification of the Series D Preferred Stock, subject to the provisions of the Certificate, or upon any recapitalization, reorganization, merger or consolidation affecting the Corporation or to which it is a party, the Depositary may in its discretion with the approval of, and shall upon the instructions of, the Corporation, and (in either case) in such manner as the Depositary may deem equitable, (i) make such adjustments as are certified by the Corporation in the fraction of an interest represented by one Depositary Share in one share of Series D Preferred Stock and in the ratio of the redemption price per Depositary Share to the redemption price per share of Series D Preferred Stock, in each case as may be necessary fully to reflect the effects of such change in par or stated value, split-up, combination or other reclassification of the Series D Preferred Stock, or of such recapitalization, reorganization, merger or consolidation and (ii) treat any securities which shall be received by the Depositary in exchange for or upon conversion of or in respect of the Series D Preferred Stock as new deposited securities so received in exchange for or upon conversion or in respect of such Series D Preferred Stock. In any such case the Depositary may in its discretion, with the approval of the Corporation, execute and deliver additional Receipts or may call for the surrender of all outstanding Receipts to be exchanged for new Receipts specifically describing such new deposited securities. Anything to the contrary herein notwithstanding, Holders of Receipts shall have the right from and after the effective date of any such change in par or stated value, split-up, combination or other reclassification of the Series D Preferred Stock or
 
any such recapitalization, reorganization, merger or consolidation to surrender such Receipts to the Depositary with instructions to convert, exchange or surrender the Series D Preferred Stock represented thereby only into or for, as the case may be, the kind and amount of shares and other securities and property and cash into which the Series D Preferred Stock represented by such Receipts might have been converted or for which such Series D Preferred Stock might have been exchanged or surrendered immediately prior to the effective date of such transaction.
               Section 4.7. Delivery of Reports.
          The Depositary shall furnish to Holders of Receipts any reports and communications received from the Corporation which is received by the Depositary and which the Corporation is required to furnish to the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock.
               Section 4.8. Lists of Receipt Holders.
          Reasonably promptly upon request from time to time by the Corporation, at the sole expense of the Corporation, the Depositary shall furnish to it a list, as of the most recent practicable date, of the names, addresses and holdings of Depositary Shares of all registered Holders of Receipts.
               Section 5.1. Maintenance of Offices, Agencies and Transfer Books by the Depositary; Registrar.
          Upon execution of this Deposit Agreement, the Depositary shall maintain at the Depositary's Office, facilities for the execution and delivery, registration and registration of transfer, surrender and exchange of Receipts, and at the offices of the Depositary's Agents, if any, facilities for the delivery, registration of transfer, surrender and exchange of Receipts, all in accordance with the provisions of this Deposit Agreement.
          The Depositary shall keep books at the Depositary's Office for the registration and registration of transfer of Receipts, which books at all reasonable times shall be open for inspection by the Record Holders of Receipts; provided that any such Holder requesting to exercise such right shall certify to the Depositary that such inspection shall be for a proper purpose reasonably related to such person's interest as an owner of Depositary Shares evidenced by the Receipts.
          The Depositary may close such books, at any time or from time to time, when deemed expedient by it in connection with the performance of its duties hereunder.
          The Depositary may, with the approval of the Corporation, appoint a Registrar for registration of the Receipts or the Depositary Shares evidenced thereby. If the Receipts or the Depositary Shares evidenced thereby or the Series D Preferred Stock represented by such Depositary Shares shall be listed on one or more national securities exchanges, the Depositary will appoint a Registrar (acceptable to the Corporation) for registration of the Receipts or Depositary
 
Shares in accordance with any requirements of such exchange. Such Registrar (which may be the Depositary if so permitted by the requirements of any such exchange) may be removed and a substitute registrar appointed by the Depositary upon the request or with the approval of the Corporation. If the Receipts, Depositary Shares or Series D Preferred Stock are listed on one or more other securities exchanges, the Depositary will, at the request of the Corporation, arrange such facilities for the delivery, registration, registration of transfer, surrender and exchange of the Receipts, Depositary Shares or Series D Preferred Stock as may be required by law or applicable securities exchange regulation.
               Section 5.2. Prevention of or Delay in Performance by the Depositary, the Depositary's Agents, the Registrar or the Corporation.
          Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor any Registrar nor the Corporation shall incur any liability to any Holder of Receipt if by reason of any provision of any present or future law, or regulation thereunder, of the United States of America or of any other governmental authority or, in the case of the Depositary, the Depositary's Agent or the Registrar, by reason of any provision, present or future, of the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation (including the Certificate) or by reason of any act of God or war or other circumstance beyond the control of the relevant party, the Depositary, the Depositary's Agent, the Registrar or the Corporation shall be prevented or forbidden from, or subjected to any penalty on account of, doing or performing any act or thing which the terms of this Deposit Agreement provide shall be done or performed; nor shall the Depositary, any Depositary's Agent, any Registrar or the Corporation incur liability to any Holder of a Receipt (i) by reason of any nonperformance or delay, caused as aforesaid, in the performance of any act or thing which the terms of this Deposit Agreement shall provide shall or may be done or performed, or (ii) by reason of any exercise of, or failure to exercise, any discretion provided for in this Deposit Agreement except as otherwise explicitly set forth in this Deposit Agreement.
               Section 5.3. Obligations of the Depositary, the Depositary's Agents, the Registrar and the Corporation.
          Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor any Registrar nor the Corporation assumes any obligation or shall be subject to any liability under this Deposit Agreement to Holders of Receipts other than for its negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, neither the Depositary, nor the Depositary's Agent nor any Registrar nor the Corporation shall be liable in any event for special, punitive, incidental, indirect or consequential losses or damages of any kind whatsoever (including but not limited to lost profits).
          Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor any Registrar nor the Corporation shall be under any obligation to appear in, prosecute or defend any action, suit or other proceeding in respect of the Series D Preferred Stock, the Depositary Shares or the Receipts which in its opinion may involve it in expense or liability unless indemnity satisfactory to it against all expense and liability be furnished as often as may be required.
          Neither the Depositary nor any Depositary's Agent nor any Registrar nor the Corporation shall be liable for any action or any failure to act by it in reliance upon the written
 
advice of legal counsel or accountants, or information from any person presenting Series D Preferred Stock for deposit, any Holder of a Receipt or any other person believed by it in good faith to be competent to give such information. The Depositary, any Depositary's Agent, any Registrar and the Corporation may each rely and shall each be protected in acting upon or omitting to act upon any written notice, request, direction or other document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties.
          The Depositary shall not be responsible for any failure to carry out any instruction to vote any of the shares of Series D Preferred Stock or for the manner or effect of any such vote made, as long as any such action or non-action is not taken in bad faith. The Depositary undertakes, and any Registrar shall be required to undertake, to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Agreement, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Agreement against the Depositary or any Registrar.
          The Depositary, the Depositary's Agents, and any Registrar may own and deal in any class of securities of the Corporation and its affiliates and in Receipts. The Depositary may also act as transfer agent or registrar of any of the securities of the Corporation and its affiliates.
          The Depositary shall not be under any liability for interest on any monies at any time received by it pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement or of the Receipts, the Depositary Shares or the Series D Preferred Stock nor shall it be obligated to segregate such monies from other monies held by it, except as required by law. The Depositary shall not be responsible for advancing funds on behalf of the Corporation and shall have no duty or obligation to make any payments if it has not timely received sufficient funds to make timely payments.
          In the event the Depositary believes any ambiguity or uncertainty exists hereunder or in any notice, instruction, direction, request or other communication, paper or document received by the Depositary hereunder, or in the administration of any of the provisions of this Agreement, the Depositary shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, omitting or suffering to take any action hereunder, the Depositary may, in its sole discretion upon written notice to the Corporation, refrain from taking any action and shall be fully protected and shall not be liable in any way to the Corporation, any Holders of Receipts or any other person or entity for refraining from taking such action, unless the Depositary receives written instructions or a certificate signed by the Corporation which eliminates such ambiguity or uncertainty to the satisfaction of the Depositary or which proves or establishes the applicable matter to the satisfaction of the Depositary.
               Section 5.4. Resignation and Removal of the Depositary; Appointment of Successor Depositary.
          The Depositary may at any time resign as Depositary hereunder by delivering notice of its election to do so to the Corporation, such resignation to take effect upon the appointment of a successor Depositary and its acceptance of such appointment as hereinafter provided.
 
          The Depositary may at any time be removed by the Corporation by notice of such removal delivered to the Depositary, such removal to take effect upon the appointment of a successor Depositary hereunder and its acceptance of such appointment as hereinafter provided.
          In case at any time the Depositary acting hereunder shall resign or be removed, the Corporation shall, within 60 days after the delivery of the notice of resignation or removal, as the case may be, appoint a successor Depositary, which shall be a bank or trust company having its principal office in the United States of America and having a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. If no successor Depositary shall have been so appointed and have accepted appointment within 60 days after delivery of such notice, the resigning or removed Depositary may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Depositary. Every successor Depositary shall execute and deliver to its predecessor and to the Corporation an instrument in writing accepting its appointment hereunder, and thereupon such successor Depositary, without any further act or deed, shall become fully vested with all the rights, powers, duties and obligations of its predecessor and for all purposes shall be the Depositary under this Deposit Agreement, and such predecessor, upon payment of all sums due it and on the written request of the Corporation, shall promptly execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor all rights and powers of such predecessor hereunder, shall duly assign, transfer and deliver all right, title and interest in the Series D Preferred Stock and any moneys or property held hereunder to such successor, and shall deliver to such successor a list of the Record Holders of all outstanding Receipts and such records, books and other information in its possession relating thereto. Any successor Depositary shall promptly mail notice of its appointment to the Record Holders of Receipts.
          Any entity into or with which the Depositary may be merged, consolidated or converted shall be the successor of the Depositary without the execution or filing of any document or any further act, and notice thereof shall not be required hereunder. Such successor Depositary may authenticate the Receipts in the name of the predecessor Depositary or its own name as successor Depositary.
               Section 5.5. Corporate Notices and Reports.
          The Corporation agrees that it will deliver to the Depositary, and the Depositary will, promptly after receipt thereof, transmit to the Record Holders of Receipts, in each case at the addresses recorded in the Depositary's books, copies of all notices and reports (including without limitation financial statements) required by law, by the rules of any national securities exchange upon which the Series D Preferred Stock, the Depositary Shares or the Receipts are listed or by the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation (including the Certificate), to be furnished to the Record Holders of Receipts. Such transmission will be at the Corporation's expense and the Corporation will provide the Depositary with such number of copies of such documents as the Depositary may reasonably request. In addition, the Depositary will transmit to the Record Holders of Receipts at the Corporation's expense such other documents as may be requested by the Corporation.
 
               Section 5.6. Indemnification by the Corporation.
          Notwithstanding Section 5.3 to the contrary, the Corporation shall indemnify the Depositary, any Depositary's Agent and any Registrar (including each of their officers, directors, agents and employees) against, and hold each of them harmless from, any loss, damage, cost, penalty, liability or expense (including the reasonable costs and expenses of defending itself) which may arise out of acts performed, suffered or omitted to be taken in connection with this Agreement and the Receipts by the Depositary, any Registrar or any of their respective agents (including any Depositary's Agent) and any transactions or documents contemplated hereby, except for any liability arising out of negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith on the respective parts of any such person or persons. The obligations of the Corporation set forth in this Section 5.6 shall survive any succession of any Depositary, Registrar or Depositary's Agent.
               Section 5.7. Fees, Charges and Expenses.
          The Corporation agrees promptly to pay the Depositary the compensation to be agreed upon with the Corporation for all services rendered by the Depositary hereunder and to reimburse the Depositary for its reasonable out-of-pocket expenses (including reasonable counsel fees and expenses) incurred by the Depositary without negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith on its part (or on the part of any agent or Depositary Agent) in connection with the services rendered by it (or such agent or Depositary Agent) hereunder. The Corporation shall pay all charges of the Depositary in connection with the initial deposit of the Series D Preferred Stock and the initial issuance of the Depositary Shares, all withdrawals of shares of Series D Preferred Stock by owners of Depositary Shares, and any redemption or exchange of the Series D Preferred Stock at the option of the Corporation. The Corporation shall pay all transfer and other taxes and governmental charges arising solely from the existence of the depositary arrangements. All other transfer and other taxes and governmental charges shall be at the expense of Holders of Depositary Shares evidenced by Receipts. If, at the request of a Holder of Receipts, the Depositary incurs charges or expenses for which the Corporation is not otherwise liable hereunder, such Holder will be liable for such charges and expenses; provided, however, that the Depositary may, at its sole option, require a Holder of a Receipt to prepay the Depositary any charge or expense the Depositary has been asked to incur at the request of such Holder of Receipts. The Depositary shall present its statement for charges and expenses to the Corporation at such intervals as the Corporation and the Depositary may agree.
               Section 6.1. Amendment.
          The form of the Receipts and any provisions of this Deposit Agreement may at any time and from time to time be amended by agreement between the Corporation and the Depositary in any respect which they may deem necessary or desirable; provided, however, that no such amendment which shall materially and adversely alter the rights of the Holders of Receipts shall be effective against the Holders of Receipts unless such amendment shall have been approved by the Holders of Receipts representing in the aggregate at least a two-thirds majority of the Depositary Shares then outstanding. Every Holder of an outstanding Receipt at the time any such amendment
 
becomes effective shall be deemed, by continuing to hold such Receipt, to consent and agree to such amendment and to be bound by the Depositary Agreement as amended thereby. In no event shall any amendment impair the right, subject to the provisions of Sections 2.5 and 2.6 and Article III, of any owner of Depositary Shares to surrender any Receipt evidencing such Depositary Shares to the Depositary with instructions to deliver to the Holder the Series D Preferred Stock and all money and other property, if any, represented thereby, except in order to comply with mandatory provisions of applicable law or the rules and regulations of any governmental body, agency or commission, or applicable securities exchange.
               Section 6.2. Termination.
          This Agreement may be terminated by the Corporation or the Depositary only if (i) all outstanding Depositary Shares issued hereunder have been redeemed pursuant to Section 2.8, (ii) there shall have been made a final distribution in respect of the Series D Preferred Stock in connection with any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and such distribution shall have been distributed to the Holders of Receipts representing Depositary Shares pursuant to Section 4.1 or 4.2, as applicable or (iii) upon the consent of Holders of Receipts representing in the aggregate not less than two-thirds of the Depositary Shares outstanding.
          Upon the termination of this Deposit Agreement, the Corporation shall be discharged from all obligations under this Deposit Agreement except for its obligations to the Depositary, any Depositary's Agent and any Registrar under Sections 5.6 and 5.7.
               Section 7.1. Counterparts.
          This Deposit Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, and by each of the parties hereto on separate counterparts, each of which counterparts, when so executed and delivered, shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
               Section 7.2. Exclusive Benefit of Parties.
          This Deposit Agreement is for the exclusive benefit of the parties hereto, and their respective successors hereunder, and shall not be deemed to give any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim to any other person whatsoever.
               Section 7.3. Invalidity of Provisions.
          In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Deposit Agreement or in the Receipts should be or become invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein or therein shall in no way be affected, prejudiced or disturbed thereby.
 
               Section 7.4. Notices.
          Any and all notices to be given to the Corporation hereunder or under the Receipts shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if personally delivered or sent by mail, or by telegram or facsimile transmission or electronic mail, confirmed by letter, addressed to the Corporation at
U.S. Bancorp 800 Nicollet Mall Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402 Attention: Treasury Department Facsimile No.: (612) 303-1338
or at any other addresses of which the Corporation shall have notified the Depositary in writing.
          Any and all notices to be given to the Depositary hereunder or under the Receipts shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if personally delivered or sent by mail, or by facsimile transmission confirmed by letter, addressed to the Depositary at the Depositary's Office at
U.S. Bank National Association 100 Wall Street New York, New York 10005 Attention: Corporate Trust Services Facsimile No.: (212) 509-3384
or at any other address of which the Depositary shall have notified the Corporation in writing.
          Any and all notices to be given to any Record Holder of a Receipt hereunder or under the Receipts shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if personally delivered or sent by mail or facsimile transmission or confirmed by letter, addressed to such Record Holder at the address of such Record Holder as it appears on the books of the Depositary, or if such Holder shall have timely filed with the Depositary a written request that notices intended for such Holder be mailed to some other address, at the address designated in such request.
          Delivery of a notice sent by mail or by facsimile transmission shall be deemed to be effected at the time when a duly addressed letter containing the same (or a confirmation thereof in the case of a facsimile transmission) is deposited, postage prepaid, in a post office letter box. The Depositary or the Corporation may, however, act upon any facsimile transmission received by it from the other or from any Holder of a Receipt, notwithstanding that such facsimile transmission shall not subsequently be confirmed by letter or as aforesaid.
               Section 7.5. Depositary's Agents.
          The Depositary may from time to time appoint Depositary's Agents to act in any respect for the Depositary for the purposes of this Deposit Agreement and may at any time appoint additional Depositary's Agents and vary or terminate the appointment of such Depositary's Agents. The Depositary will promptly notify the Corporation of any such action.
 
               Section 7.6. Appointment of Registrar, Dividend Disbursing Agent and Redemption Agent in Respect of the Series D Preferred Stock.
          Unless otherwise set forth on the Officer's Certificate delivered pursuant to Section 2.2 hereof, the Corporation hereby appoints U.S. Bank National Association as registrar, dividend disbursing agent and redemption agent in respect of the Series D Preferred Stock deposited with the Depositary hereunder, and U.S. Bank National Association hereby accepts such appointments. With respect to the appointments of U.S. Bank National Association as registrar, dividend disbursing agent and redemption agent in respect of the Series D Preferred Stock, each of the Corporation and U.S. Bank National Association, in their respective capacities under such appointments, shall be entitled to the same rights, indemnities, immunities and benefits as the Corporation and Depositary hereunder, respectively, as if explicitly named in each such provision.
               Section 7.7. Appointment of Calculation Agent.
          The Officer's Certificate referred to in Section 2.2 hereof shall set forth the name of the calculation agent, if any, with respect to calculating the amount of dividends to be paid with respect to the Series D Preferred Stock, and if the Officer's Certificate names U.S. Bank National Association as calculation agent, it shall be deemed to be appointed as calculation agent only if U.S. Bank National Association has accepted such appointment in writing as agreed between U.S. Bank National Association and the Corporation. If U.S. Bank National Association is appointed as such calculation agent, each of the Corporation and such calculation agent, in their respective capacities under such appointment, shall be entitled to the same rights, indemnities, immunities and benefits as the Corporation and Depositary hereunder, respectively, as if explicitly named in each such provision. Also, if U.S. Bank National Association is appointed as such calculation agent, it shall be entitled to receive a description of the calculations required under the Series D Preferred Stock and the categories of information under which it is entitled to seek guidance from the Corporation. In furtherance thereof, such calculation agent may seek guidance from the Corporation with one day notice in making any determinations thereunder.
               Section 7.8. Holders of Receipts Are Parties.
          The Holders of Receipts from time to time shall be parties to this Deposit Agreement and shall be bound by all of the terms and conditions hereof and of the Receipts and of the Officer's Certificate by acceptance of delivery thereof.
               Section 7.9. Governing Law.
          This Deposit Agreement and the Receipts of each series and all rights hereunder and thereunder and provisions hereof and thereof shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York without giving effect to applicable conflicts of law principles.
               Section 7.10. Inspection of Deposit Agreement.
          Copies of this Deposit Agreement shall be filed with the Depositary and the Depositary's Agents and shall be open to inspection during business hours at the Depositary's Office and the respective offices of the Depositary's Agents, if any, by any Holder of a Receipt.
 
               Section 7.11. Headings.
          The headings of articles and sections in this Deposit Agreement and in the form of the Receipt set forth in Exhibit A hereto have been inserted for convenience only and are not to be regarded as a part of this Deposit Agreement or the Receipts or to have any bearing upon the meaning or interpretation of any provision contained herein or in the Receipts.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation and the Depositary have duly executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above set forth, and all Holders of Receipts shall become parties hereto by and upon acceptance by them of delivery of Receipts issued in accordance with the terms hereof.
 
Unless this receipt is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation ("DTC"), to U.S. Bancorp or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange, or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
          U.S. Bank National Association, as Depositary (the "Depositary"), hereby certifies that Cede & Co. is the registered owner of DEPOSITARY SHARES ("Depositary Shares"), each Depositary Share representing one-thousand of one share of Series D Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, liquidation preference $25,000 per share, par value $1.00 per share (the "Series D Preferred Stock"), of U.S. Bancorp, a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation"), on deposit with the Depositary, subject to the terms and entitled to the benefits of the Deposit Agreement dated as of March 17, 2008 (the "Deposit Agreement"), among the Corporation, the Depositary and the Holders from time to time of the Depositary Receipts. By accepting this Depositary Receipt, the Holder hereof becomes a party to and agrees to be bound by all the terms and conditions of the Deposit Agreement. This Depositary Receipt shall not be valid or obligatory for any purpose or entitled to any benefits under the Deposit Agreement unless it shall have been executed by the Depositary by the manual signature of a duly authorized officer or, if executed in facsimile by the Depositary, countersigned by a Registrar in respect of the Depositary Receipts by the manual signature of a duly authorized officer thereof.
Dated:
U.S. Bank National Association, Depositary
By:
                    
                    
Authorized Officer
 
[FORM OF REVERSE OF RECEIPT]
          U.S. BANCORP WILL FURNISH WITHOUT CHARGE TO EACH RECEIPTHOLDER WHO SO REQUESTS A COPY OF THE DEPOSIT AGREEMENT AND A COPY OR SUMMARY OF THE CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS OF THE SERIES D NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK OF U.S. BANCORP. ANY SUCH REQUEST IS TO BE ADDRESSED TO THE DEPOSITARY NAMED ON THE FACE OF THIS RECEIPT.
          The Corporation will furnish without charge to each receiptholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof of the Corporation, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights. Such request may be made to the Corporation or to the Registrar.
          The following abbreviations when used in the form of ownership on the face of this certificate shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations. Abbreviations in addition to those appearing below may be used.
          For value received, ___hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto
          INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
          PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF ASSIGNEE Depositary Shares represented by the within Receipt, and do(es) hereby irrevocably constitute
 
and appoint ___Attorney to transfer the said Depositary Shares on the books of the within named Depositary with full power of substitution in the premises.
Dated:
NOTICE: The signature to the assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of this Receipt in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatsoever.
SIGNATURE GUARANTEED
NOTICE: If applicable, the signature(s) should be guaranteed by an eligible guarantor institution (banks, stockbrokers, savings and loan associations, and credit unions with membership in an approved signature guarantee medallion program), pursuant to Rule 17Ad-15 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
          I, ___, [title]___ of U.S. Bancorp (the "Corporation"), hereby certify that pursuant to the terms of a Certificate of Designations filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on March ___, 2008 (the "Certificate of Designations"), and pursuant to resolutions adopted by written consent of the Credit and Finance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Credit and Finance Committee") on March 10, 2008 and resolutions adopted by written consent of the Pricing Subcommittee of the Credit and Finance Committee on March 10, 2008, the Corporation has established the Series D Preferred Stock which the Corporation desires to deposit with the Depositary for the purposes of being subject to the terms and conditions of the Deposit Agreement, dated as of March 17, 2008, by and among the Corporation, U.S. Bank National Association and the Holders of Receipts issued thereunder from time to time (the "Deposit Agreement"). In connection therewith, the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof has authorized the terms and conditions with respect to the Series D Preferred Stock as described in the Certificate of Designations attached as Annex A hereto. Any terms of the Series D Preferred Stock that are not so described in the Certificate of Designations and any terms of the Receipts representing such Series D Preferred Stock that are not described in the Deposit Agreement are described below:
Aggregate Number of shares of Series D Preferred Stock issued on the day hereof:
CUSIP Number for Receipt:
Denomination of Depositary Share per share of Series D Preferred Stock (if different than 1/1000th of a share of Series D Preferred Stock):
Redemption Provisions (if different than as set forth in the Deposit Agreement):
Name of Global Receipt Depositary:
Name of Registrar with Respect to the Receipts (if other than U.S. Bank National Association.):
Name of Registrar, Dividend Disbursing Agent, and Redemption Agent with Respect to the Series D Preferred Stock (if other than U.S. Bank National Association): Name of Calculation Agent, if any: Special terms and conditions:
Closing date:
 
          Pursuant to the terms of the Deposit Agreement, the Corporation hereby appoints U.S. Bank National Association as calculation agent (the "Calculation Agent") for the Series D Preferred Stock described in the Certificate of Designations attached hereto.
          All capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have such meaning as ascribed thereto in the Deposit Agreement.
          This certificate is dated March 17, 2008.
Name:
Title:
Agreed and Accepted by U.S. Bank National Association, as Calculation Agent
Name:
Title:

 
Exhibit 99.1
          , dated as of March 17, 2008 (this ""), by U.S. Bancorp, a Delaware corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the ""), in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder (as defined below).
Replacement Capital Covenant
Replacement Capital Covenant
Corporation
          . On the date hereof, the Corporation is issuing 20,000 shares of its "", or the "", having a liquidation preference of $25,000 per Share.
A
Series D Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock
Shares
          . This Replacement Capital Covenant is the "Replacement Capital Covenant" referred to in the Prospectus Supplement, dated March 10, 2008, relating to the Shares.
B
          . The Corporation, in entering into this Replacement Capital Covenant and disclosing the content of this Replacement Capital Covenant in the manner provided below, is doing so with the intent that the covenants provided for in this Replacement Capital Covenant be enforceable by each Covered Debtholder and the Corporation be estopped from disregarding the covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant, in each case to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law.
C
          . The Corporation acknowledges that reliance by each Covered Debtholder upon the covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant is reasonable and foreseeable by the Corporation and that, were the Corporation to disregard its covenants in this Replacement Capital Covenant, each Covered Debtholder would have sustained an injury as a result of its reliance on such covenants.
D
          the Corporation hereby covenants and agrees as follows in favor of and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder.
NOW, THEREFORE,
          SECTION 1. . Capitalized terms used in this Replacement Capital Covenant (including the Recitals) have the meanings set forth in Schedule I hereto.
Definitions
          SECTION 2. . The Corporation hereby promises and covenants to and for the benefit of each Covered Debtholder that neither the Corporation nor any Subsidiary shall redeem or repurchase any of the Shares prior to the Termination Date except to the extent that (a) the Corporation has obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve if such approval is then required under the Federal Reserve's capital guidelines applicable to bank holding companies and (b) the applicable redemption or repurchase price does not exceed the sum of the following amounts:
Limitations on Redemption and Repurchase of Shares
     (i) 133.33% of the aggregate amount of (a) net cash proceeds received by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries from the issuance and sale of Common Stock and rights to acquire Common Stock (including Common Stock or rights to acquire Common Stock issued pursuant to the Corporation's dividend reinvestment plan or employee benefit plans); and (b) the Market Value of any Common Stock that the Corporation or its Subsidiaries have (x) delivered to
 
persons other than the Corporation and its Subsidiaries as consideration for property or assets in an arm's-length transaction or (y) issued to Persons other than the Corporation or its Subsidiaries in connection with the conversion or exchange of any convertible or exchangeable securities, other than securities for which the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries has received equity credit from any NRSRO;
plus
     (ii) 100% of the aggregate net cash proceeds received by the Corporation and its Subsidiaries from the issue and sale of Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity, Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity, Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, REIT Preferred Securities, Qualifying Capital Securities and Qualifying Preferred Stock,
in each case since the most recent Measurement Date (without double counting proceeds received in any prior Measurement Period); the provisions of this Replacement Capital Covenant shall not apply to:
provided
     (a) the purchase of the Shares or any portion thereof by any Subsidiary in connection with the distribution thereof or market-making or other secondary market activities, or
     (b) the exchange of any of the Shares for Common Stock having a Market Value, or Qualifying Preferred Stock having an aggregate liquidation preference, not less than the liquidation preference of such Shares.
          SECTION 3. . (a) The Corporation represents and warrants that the Initial Covered Debt is Eligible Debt.
Covered Debt
     (b) On or during the 30-day period immediately preceding any Redesignation Date with respect to the Covered Debt then in effect, the Corporation shall identify the series of Eligible Debt that will become the Covered Debt on and after such Redesignation Date in accordance with the following procedures:
     (i) the Corporation shall identify each series of its then outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt;
     (ii) if only one series of the Corporation's then outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed is Eligible Debt, such series shall become the Covered Debt commencing on the related Redesignation Date;
     (iii) if the Corporation has more than one outstanding series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt, then the Corporation shall identify the series that has the latest occurring final maturity date as of the date the Corporation is applying the procedures in this Section 3(b) and such series shall become the Covered Debt on the upcoming Redesignation Date;
 
     (iv) if the Corporation has no outstanding series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt, but U.S. Bank is a Subsidiary of the Corporation and U.S. Bank has only one outstanding series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt, such series shall become the Covered Debt commencing on the related Redesignation Date;
     (v) if the Corporation has no outstanding series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt, but U.S. Bank is a Subsidiary of the Corporation and U.S. Bank has more than one outstanding series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Debt, then the Corporation shall identify the series that has the latest occurring final maturity date as of the date the Corporation is applying the procedures in this Section 3(b) and such series shall become the Covered Debt on the upcoming Redesignation Date;
     (vi) the series of outstanding long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is determined to be Covered Debt pursuant to clause (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) above shall be the Covered Debt for purposes of this Replacement Capital Covenant for the period commencing on the related Redesignation Date and continuing to but not including the Redesignation Date as of which a new series of outstanding long-term indebtedness is next determined to be the Covered Debt pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Section 3(b); and
     (vii) in connection with such identification of a new series of Covered Debt, the Corporation shall give the notice provided for in Section 3(d) within the time frame provided for in such section.
     (c) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Replacement Capital Covenant, if on any Redesignation Date the Corporation has then outstanding one or more series of Eligible Subordinated Debt, a series of Eligible Subordinated Debt shall be identified as Covered Debt in accordance with Section 3(b) and no Eligible Senior Debt shall then be Covered Debt.
     (d) . In order to give effect to the intent of the Corporation described in Recital D, the Corporation covenants that
Notice
     (i) simultaneously with the execution of this Replacement Capital Covenant or as soon as practicable after the date hereof, the Corporation shall (A) give notice to the Holders of the Initial Covered Debt, in the manner provided in the indenture relating to the Initial Covered Debt, of this Replacement Capital Covenant and the rights granted to such Holders hereunder and (B) file a copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant with the Commission as an exhibit to a current report on Form 8-K under the Securities Exchange Act;
     (ii) so long as the Corporation is a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act, the Corporation shall include in each annual report filed with the Commission on Form 10-K under the Securities Exchange Act a
 
description of the covenant set forth in Section 2 and identify the series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money that is Covered Debt as of the date such Form 10-K is filed with the Commission;
     (iii) if a series of the Corporation's or U.S. Bank's long-term indebtedness for money borrowed (A) becomes Covered Debt or (B) ceases to be Covered Debt, the Corporation shall give notice of such occurrence within 30 days to the holders of such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed in the manner provided for in the indenture, fiscal agency agreement or other instrument under which such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed was issued and report such change in a current report on Form 8-K including or incorporating by reference this Replacement Capital Covenant, and in the Corporation's next quarterly report on Form 10-Q or annual report on Form 10-K, as applicable;
     (iv) if, and only if, the Corporation ceases to be a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act, the Corporation shall (A) post on its website the information otherwise required to be included in Securities Exchange Act filings pursuant to clauses (ii) and (iii) of this Section 3(d) and (B) cause a notice of the execution of this Replacement Capital Covenant to be posted on the Bloomberg screen for the Covered Debt or any successor Bloomberg screen and each similar third-party vendor's screen the Corporation reasonably believes is appropriate (each an "") and cause a hyperlink to a definitive copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant to be included on the Investor Screen for each series of Covered Debt, in each case to the extent permitted by Bloomberg or such similar third-party vendor, as the case may be; and
Investor Screen
     (v) promptly upon request by any Holder of Covered Debt, the Corporation shall provide such Holder with a conformed copy of this Replacement Capital Covenant.
     (e) The Corporation agrees that, if at any time the Covered Debt is held by a trust (for example, where the Covered Debt is part of an issuance of trust preferred securities), a holder of the securities issued by such trust may enforce (including by instituting legal proceedings) this Replacement Capital Covenant directly against the Corporation as though such holder owned Covered Debt directly, and such trust securities shall be deemed to be "" for purposes of this Replacement Capital Covenant for so long as the indebtedness held by such trust remains Covered Debt hereunder.
Covered Debt
          SECTION 4. . (a) The covenants of the Corporation pursuant to this Replacement Capital Covenant shall remain in full force and effect until the earliest date (the "") to occur of (i) the date, if any, on which the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then-effective Covered Debt consent or agree in writing to the termination of this Replacement Capital Covenant and the obligations of the Corporation hereunder, (ii) the date on which neither the Corporation nor U.S. Bank has any series of outstanding Eligible Senior Debt or Eligible Subordinated Debt (in each case without giving effect to the rating requirement in clause (b) of the definition of each such term) and (iii) the date
Term
Termination Date
 
that is ten years after the date hereof or, if earlier, when all of the Shares have been redeemed or repurchased in full in compliance with this Replacement Capital Covenant. From and after the Termination Date, the obligations of the Corporation pursuant to this Replacement Capital Covenant shall be of no further force and effect with respect to such Holders, or otherwise.
     (b) This Replacement Capital Covenant may be amended or supplemented from time to time by a written instrument signed by the Corporation with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then-effective series of Covered Debt, that this Replacement Capital Covenant may be amended or supplemented from time to time by a written instrument signed only by the Corporation (and without the consent of the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt) if (i) such amendment or supplement eliminates Common Stock, Debt Exchangeable for Common Stock, rights to acquire Common Stock, and/or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock as a Replacement Capital Security, if after the date of this Replacement Capital Covenant, the Corporation has been advised in writing by a nationally recognized independent accounting firm or an accounting standard or interpretive guidance of an existing accounting standard issued by an organization or regulator that has responsibility for establishing or interpreting accounting standards in the United States becomes effective such that there is more than an insubstantial risk that failure to eliminate Common Stock, Debt Exchangeable for Common Stock, rights to acquire Common Stock and/or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock as a Replacement Capital Security would result in a reduction in the Corporation's earnings per share as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, (ii) such amendment or supplement is not adverse to the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt and an officer of the Corporation has delivered to the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt in the manner provided for in the indenture, fiscal agency agreement or other instrument with respect to such Covered Debt a written certificate stating that, in his or her determination, such amendment or supplement is not adverse to the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt, (iii) the effect of such amendment or supplement is solely to impose additional restrictions on, or eliminate certain of, the types of securities qualifying as Replacement Capital Securities (other than the securities covered by clause (i) above), and an officer of the Corporation has delivered to the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt in the manner provided for in the indenture, fiscal agency agreement or other instrument with respect to such Covered Debt a written certificate to that effect or (iv) the effect of such amendment or supplement is to postpone the termination of this Replacement Capital Covenant. For this purpose, an amendment or supplement that adds new types of securities qualifying as Replacement Capital Securities, modifies the requirements of securities qualifying as Replacement Capital Securities or postpones the termination of this Replacement Capital Covenant will not be deemed materially adverse to the Holders of the then-effective series of Covered Debt if, following such amendment or supplement, the Replacement Capital Covenant would satisfy clause (b) of the definition of Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant.
provided
     (c) For purposes of Section 4(a) and 4(b), the Holders whose consent or agreement is required to amend or terminate the covenants in this Replacement Capital
 
Covenant shall be the Holders of the then-effective Covered Debt as of a record date established by the Corporation that is not more than 30 days prior to the date on which the Corporation proposes to amend this Replacement Capital Covenant or cause the covenants in Section 2 to be of no further force and effect.
          SECTION 5. . (a)
Miscellaneous
This Replacement Capital Covenant shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard to choice of law principles.
     (b) This Replacement Capital Covenant shall be binding upon the Corporation and its successors and assigns (provided that, in the event the Corporation sells, conveys, transfers or otherwise disposes of all or substantially all its assets to any person and (i) such person assumes all the obligations of the Corporation under the indenture governing the then applicable Covered Debt and the Indenture, (ii) such person assumes all the obligations of the Corporation under the Replacement Capital Covenant and (iii) the Corporation is released from its obligations under the indenture governing the then applicable Covered Debt and the Indenture, the Corporation shall be released from all its obligations hereunder) and shall inure to the benefit of the Covered Debtholders as they exist from time-to-time (it being understood and agreed by the Corporation that any Person who is a Covered Debtholder at the time such Person acquires or holds Covered Debt shall retain its status as a Covered Debtholder for so long as the series of long-term indebtedness for borrowed money owned by such Person is Covered Debt and, if such Person initiates a claim or proceeding to enforce its rights under this Replacement Capital Covenant after the Corporation has violated its covenants in Section 2 and before the series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed held by such Person is no longer Covered Debt, such Person's rights under this Replacement Capital Covenant shall not terminate by reason of such series of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed no longer being Covered Debt). Except as specifically provided herein, this Replacement Capital Covenant shall have no other beneficiaries and no other Persons are entitled to rely on this Replacement Capital Covenant.
     (c) All demands, notices, requests and other communications to the Corporation under this Replacement Capital Covenant shall be deemed to have been duly given and made if in writing and (i) if served by personal delivery upon the Corporation, on the day so delivered (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), (ii) if delivered by registered post or certified mail, return receipt requested, or sent to the Corporation by a national or international courier service, on the date of receipt by the Corporation (or, if such date of receipt is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), or (iii) if sent by telecopier, on the day telecopied, or if not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day, provided that the telecopy is promptly confirmed by telephone confirmation thereof, and in each case to the Corporation at the address set forth below, or at such other address as the Corporation may thereafter post on its website as the address for notices under this Replacement Capital Covenant:
U.S. Bancorp 800 Nicollet Mall
 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402 Attention: Treasury Department Facsimile No: (612) 303-1338
     (d) Each reference in this Replacement Capital Covenant to a Commission form includes any successor form that may be adopted by the Commission.
 
     , the Corporation has caused this Replacement Capital Covenant to be executed by its duly authorized officer, as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
          "" means, with respect to any Qualifying Capital Securities, provisions in the related transaction documents permitting the Corporation, in its sole discretion, or in response to a directive or order from the Federal Reserve, to defer or skip in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such Qualifying Capital Securities for one or more consecutive Distribution Periods up to ten years and requiring the Corporation to issue (or use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue) one or more types of APM Qualifying Securities raising eligible proceeds at least equal to the deferred Distributions on such Qualifying Capital Securities and apply the proceeds to pay unpaid Distributions on such Qualifying Capital Securities, commencing on the earlier of (x) the first Distribution Date after commencement of a deferral period on which the Corporation pays current Distributions on such Qualifying Capital Securities and (y) the fifth anniversary of the commencement of such deferral period, and that:
Alternative Payment Mechanism
     (a) define "eligible proceeds" to mean, for purposes of such Alternative Payment Mechanism, the net proceeds (after underwriters' or placement agents' fees, commissions or discounts and other expenses relating to the issuance or sale of the relevant securities, where applicable, and including the fair market value of property received by the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries as consideration for such APM Qualifying Securities) that the Corporation has received during the 180 days prior to the related Distribution Date from the issuance of APM Qualifying Securities, up to the Preferred Cap in the case of APM Qualifying Securities that are Qualifying Preferred Stock or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock;
     (b) permit the Corporation to pay current Distributions on any Distribution Date out of any source of funds but (x) require the Corporation to pay deferred Distributions only out of eligible proceeds and (y) prohibit the Corporation from paying deferred Distributions out of any source of funds other than eligible proceeds;
     (c) include a Repurchase Restriction;
     (d) notwithstanding clause (b) of this definition, if the Federal Reserve disapproves the Corporation's issuance and sale of APM Qualifying Securities or the use of the proceeds thereof to pay deferred Distributions, may (if the Corporation elects to so provide in the terms of such Qualifying Capital Securities) permit the Corporation to pay deferred Distributions from any source or, if the Federal Reserve does not disapprove the Corporation's issuance and sale of APM Qualifying Securities but disapproves the use of the proceeds thereof to pay deferred Distributions, may (if the Corporation elects to so provide in the terms of such Qualifying Capital Securities) permit the Corporation to use such proceeds for other purposes and to continue to defer Distributions, without a breach of its obligations under the transaction documents;
     (e) may include a provision that, for purposes of paying deferred interest, limits the ability of the Corporation to sell shares of Common Stock and/or Qualifying Warrants above a Maximum Share Number;
 
     (f) limit the obligation of the Corporation to issue (or use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue) APM Qualifying Securities that are Common Stock and Qualifying Warrants to settle deferred Distributions pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism either (A) during the first five years of any deferral period or (B) before an anniversary of the commencement of any deferral period that is not earlier than the fifth such anniversary and not later than the ninth such anniversary (as designated in the terms of such Qualifying Capital Securities) with respect to deferred Distributions attributable to the first five years of such deferral period, either:
     (i) to an aggregate amount of such securities, the net proceeds from the issuance of which is equal to 2% of the product of the average of the Market Value of the Common Stock on the ten consecutive trading days ending on the fourth trading day immediately preceding the date of issuance multiplied by the total number of issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock as of the date of the Corporation's most recent publicly available consolidated financial statements; or
     (ii) to a number of shares of Common Stock and shares purchasable upon exercise of Qualifying Warrants, in the aggregate, not in excess of 2% of the outstanding number of shares of Common Stock as of the date of the Corporation's most recent publicly available consolidated financial statements (the "");
Common Cap
     (g) limit the right of the Corporation to issue APM Qualifying Securities that are Qualifying Preferred Stock and Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock to settle deferred Distributions pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism to an aggregate amount of Qualifying Preferred Stock and still-outstanding Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, the net proceeds from the issuance of which with respect to all deferral periods is equal to 25% of the liquidation or principal amount of such Qualifying Capital Securities (the "");
Preferred Cap
     (h) in the case of Qualifying Capital Securities other than non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, include a Bankruptcy Claim Limitation Provision; and
     (i) permit the Corporation, at its option, to provide that if it is involved in a merger, consolidation, amalgamation, binding share exchange or conveyance, transfer or lease of assets substantially as an entirety to any other person or a similar transaction (a "") where immediately after the consummation of the Business Combination more than 50% of the surviving or resulting entity's voting stock is owned by the shareholders of the other party to the Business Combination, then clauses (a) through (c) of this definition will not apply to any deferral period that is terminated on the next Distribution Date following the date of consummation of the Business Combination (or if later, at any time within 90 days following the date of consummation of the Business Combination);
Business Combination
(and it being understood) that:
provided
 
     (a) the Corporation shall not be obligated to issue (or use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue) APM Qualifying Securities for so long as a Market Disruption Event has occurred and is continuing;
     (b) if, due to a Market Disruption Event or otherwise, the Corporation is able to raise and apply some, but not all, of the eligible proceeds necessary to pay all deferred Distributions on any Distribution Date, the Corporation will apply any available eligible proceeds to pay accrued and unpaid Distributions on the applicable Distribution Date in chronological order subject to the Common Cap, Maximum Share Number and Preferred Cap, as applicable; and
     (c) if the Corporation has outstanding more than one class or series of securities under which it is obligated to sell a type of APM Qualifying Securities and apply some part of the proceeds to the payment of deferred Distributions, then on any date and for any period the amount of net proceeds received by the Corporation from those sales and available for payment of deferred Distributions on such securities shall be applied to such securities on a basis up to the Common Cap, Maximum Share Number and the Preferred Cap, as applicable, in proportion to the total amounts that are due on such securities, or on such other basis as the Federal Reserve may approve.
pro rata
          "" means, with respect to an Alternative Payment Mechanism or any Mandatory Trigger Provision, one or more of the following (as designated in the transaction documents for any Qualifying Capital Securities that include an Alternative Payment Mechanism or a Mandatory Trigger Provision, as applicable):
APM Qualifying Securities
(and it being understood) that (i) if the APM Qualifying Securities for any Alternative Payment Mechanism or Mandatory Trigger Provision include both Common Stock and Qualifying Warrants, such Alternative Payment Mechanism or Mandatory Trigger Provision may permit, but need not require, the Corporation to issue Qualifying Warrants and (ii) such Alternative Payment Mechanism or Mandatory Trigger Provision may permit, but need not require, the Corporation to issue Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock.
provided
          "" means, with respect to any Qualifying Capital Securities that have an Alternative Payment Mechanism or a Mandatory Trigger Provision, provisions that, upon any liquidation, dissolution, winding up or reorganization or in connection with any insolvency, receivership or proceeding under any bankruptcy law with respect to the issuer, limit the claim of the holders of such securities to Distributions that accumulate during (a) any deferral period, in the case of securities that have an Alternative Payment Mechanism or (b) any period in which the issuer fails to satisfy one or more financial tests set forth in the terms of
Bankruptcy Claim Limitation Provision
 
such securities or related transaction agreements, in the case of securities that have a Mandatory Trigger Provision, to:
     (i) in the case of Qualifying Capital Securities that have an Alternative Payment Mechanism or Mandatory Trigger Provision with respect to which the APM Qualifying Securities do not include Qualifying Preferred Stock or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, 25% of the stated or principal amount of such Qualifying Capital Securities then outstanding; and
     (ii) in the case of any other Qualifying Capital Securities, an amount not in excess of the sum of (x) the first two years of accumulated and unpaid Distributions and (y) an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the Preferred Cap over the aggregate amount of net proceeds from the issuance and sale of Qualifying Preferred Stock and Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock that is still outstanding that the issuer has applied to pay such Distributions pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism or the Mandatory Trigger Provision; that the holders of such Qualifying Capital Securities are deemed to agree that, to the extent the remaining claim exceeds the amount set forth in clause (x), the amount they receive in respect of such excess shall not exceed the amount they would have received if the claim for such excess ranked with the interests of the holders, if any, of Qualifying Preferred Stock.
provided
pari passu
     "" means each day other than (a) a Saturday or Sunday, or (b) a day on which banking institutions in New York City are authorized or required by law or executive order to be closed.
Business Day
     "" has the meaning specified in clause (f) of the definition of Alternative Payment Mechanism.
Common Cap
     "" means, for purposes of selling APM Qualifying Securities, commercially reasonable efforts to complete the offer and sale of APM Qualifying Securities to third parties that are not Subsidiaries of the Corporation in public offerings or private placements. The Corporation shall not be considered to have made Commercially Reasonable Efforts to effect a sale of APM Qualifying Securities if it determines not to pursue or complete such sale due to pricing, coupon, dividend rate or dilution considerations.
Commercially Reasonable Efforts
     "" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
     "" means common stock of the Corporation (including treasury shares of common stock and shares of common stock sold pursuant to the Corporation's dividend reinvestment plan and employee benefit plans).
Common Stock
     "" has the meaning specified in the introduction to this instrument.
Corporation
     "" means (a) at the date of this Replacement Capital Covenant and continuing to but not including the first Redesignation Date, the Initial Covered Debt and (b) thereafter, commencing with each Redesignation Date and continuing to but not including the
Covered Debt
 
next succeeding Redesignation Date, the Eligible Debt identified pursuant to Section 3(b) as the Covered Debt for such period.
     "" means each Person (whether a Holder or a beneficial owner holding through a participant in a clearing agency) that buys or holds long-term indebtedness for money borrowed of the Corporation or U.S. Bank during the period that such long-term indebtedness for money borrowed is Covered Debt.
Covered Debtholder
     "" means a security or combination of securities (together in this definition, "") that:
Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity
such securities
     (a) gives the holder a beneficial interest in (i) subordinated debt securities of the Corporation (in this definition, the "") permitting the Issuer to defer Distributions in whole or in part on such subordinated debt securities for one or more Distribution Periods up to at least five years without any remedies other than Permitted Remedies and that are junior subordinated debt of the Issuer (or rank with or junior to junior subordinated debt of the Issuer) and (ii) a fractional interest in a stock purchase contract that obligates the holder to acquire a beneficial interest in a number of shares of Common Stock to be within a range established at the time of issuance of the subordinated debt securities, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments; , that such stock purchase contracts shall not be terminable prior to the stock purchase date other than upon the insolvency of the Corporation;
Issuer
pari passu
provided
     (b) provides that the holders directly or indirectly grant to the Corporation a security interest in such subordinated debt securities and their proceeds (including any substitute collateral permitted under the transaction documents) to secure the investors' direct or indirect obligation to purchase Common Stock pursuant to such stock purchase contracts;
     (c) includes a remarketing feature pursuant to which the subordinated debt of the Issuer is remarketed to new investors commencing not later than the first Distribution Date that is at least three years after the date of issuance of such securities;
     (d) provides for the proceeds raised in the remarketing to be used to purchase Common Stock under the stock purchase contracts and, if there has not been a successful remarketing by the first Distribution Date that is one year after the earliest regularly scheduled stock purchase date, provides that the stock purchase contracts will be settled by the Corporation exercising its rights as a secured creditor with respect to such subordinated debt securities or other collateral directly or indirectly pledged by investors in the Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity; and
     (e) after the issuance of such Common Stock, provides the holder with a beneficial interest in such Common Stock.
          "" means a security or combination of securities (together in this definition, "") that:
Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity
such securities
 
     (a) gives the holder a beneficial interest in (i) subordinated debt securities of the Corporation or one of its Subsidiaries (in this definition, the "") permitting the Issuer to defer Distributions in whole or in part on such subordinated debt securities for one or more Distribution Periods up to seven years without any remedies other than Permitted Remedies and that are junior subordinated debt of the Issuer (or rank with or junior to junior subordinated debt of the Issuer) and (ii) an interest in a stock purchase contract that obligates the holder to acquire a beneficial interest in Qualifying Preferred Stock;
Issuer
pari passu
     (b) provides that the holders directly or indirectly grant to the Issuer a security interest in such subordinated debt securities and their proceeds (including any substitute collateral permitted under the transaction documents) to secure the investors' direct or indirect obligation to purchase Qualifying Preferred Stock pursuant to such stock purchase contracts;
     (c) includes a remarketing feature pursuant to which the subordinated debt of the Issuer is remarketed to new investors commencing not later than the first Distribution Date that is at least five years after the date of issuance of such securities or, if the Federal Reserve so requires as a condition to treating such securities as Tier 1 capital under its risk-based guidelines applicable to bank holding companies, earlier in the event of an early settlement event based on (i) the capital ratios of the Corporation, (ii) the capital ratios of the Corporation as anticipated by the Federal Reserve, or (iii) the dissolution of the issuer of such Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity;
     (d) provides for the proceeds raised in the remarketing to be used to purchase Qualifying Preferred Stock under the stock purchase contracts and, if there has not been a successful remarketing by the first Distribution Date that is six years after the date of issuance of such securities, provides that the stock purchase contracts will be settled by the Corporation exercising its rights as a secured creditor with respect to such subordinated debt securities or other collateral directly or indirectly pledged by investors in the Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity;
     (e) includes a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant that will apply to such securities and to any Qualifying Preferred Stock issued pursuant to the stock purchase contracts; that such Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant will not include Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity or Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity as "Replacement Capital Securities"; and
provided
     (f) after the issuance of such Qualifying Preferred Stock, provides the holder with a beneficial interest in such Qualifying Preferred Stock.
     "" means any Subsidiary of the Corporation that is a depository institution within the meaning of 12 C.F.R.  204.2(m) and includes U.S. Bank.
Depository Institution Subsidiary
     "" means, as to any securities or combination of securities, the dates on which periodic Distributions on such securities are scheduled to be made.
Distribution Date
 
     "" means, as to any securities or combination of securities, each period from and including a Distribution Date for such securities to but not including the next succeeding Distribution Date for such securities.
Distribution Period
     "" means, as to a security or combination of securities, dividends, interest payments or other income distributions to the holders thereof that are not Subsidiaries of the Corporation.
Distributions
     "" means, at any time, Eligible Subordinated Debt or, if no Eligible Subordinated Debt is then outstanding, Eligible Senior Debt.
Eligible Debt
     "" means, at any time in respect of any issuer, each series of outstanding unsecured long-term indebtedness for money borrowed of such issuer that (a) upon a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the issuer, ranks most senior among the issuer's then outstanding classes of unsecured indebtedness for money borrowed, (b) is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO (provided that this clause (b) shall apply on a Redesignation Date only if on such date the issuer has outstanding senior long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that satisfies the requirements of clauses (a), (c) and (d) that is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO), (c) has an outstanding principal amount of not less than $100,000,000, (d) was issued through or with the assistance of a commercial or investment banking firm or firms acting as underwriters, initial purchasers or placement or distribution agents, and (e) if issued by a Depository Institution Subsidiary, is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Corporation on (I) a subordinated basis or (II) if on the relevant Redesignation Date there is no outstanding debt of a Depository Institution Subsidiary meeting the other requirements set forth above and guaranteed by the Corporation on a subordinated basis but there is outstanding debt of a Depository Institution Subsidiary meeting such requirements and guaranteed on a senior basis, a senior basis. For purposes of this definition as applied to securities with a CUSIP number, each issuance of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that has (or, if such indebtedness is held by a trust or other intermediate entity established directly or indirectly by the issuer, the securities of such intermediate entity that have) a separate CUSIP number shall be deemed to be a series of the issuer's long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is separate from each other series of such indebtedness.
Eligible Senior Debt
     "" means, at any time in respect of any issuer, each series of the issuer's then-outstanding unsecured long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that (a) upon a bankruptcy, liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the issuer, ranks subordinate to the issuer's most senior outstanding series of unsecured indebtedness for money borrowed, (b) is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO (provided that this clause (b) shall apply on a Redesignation Date only if on such date the issuer has outstanding subordinated long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that satisfies the requirements in clauses (a), (c) and (d) that is then assigned a rating by at least one NRSRO), (c) has an outstanding principal amount of not less than $100,000,000, (d) was issued through or with the assistance of a commercial or investment banking firm or firms acting as underwriters, initial purchasers or placement or distribution agents, and (e) if issued by a Depository Institution Subsidiary, is fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Corporation on (I) a subordinated basis or (II) if on the relevant Redesignation Date there is no outstanding debt of a Depository Institution Subsidiary meeting the other requirements set forth above and guaranteed by the Corporation on a
Eligible Subordinated Debt
 
subordinated basis but there is outstanding debt of a Depository Institution Subsidiary meeting such requirements and guaranteed on a senior basis, a senior basis. For purposes of this definition as applied to securities with a CUSIP number, each issuance of long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that has (or, if such indebtedness is held by a trust or other intermediate entity established directly or indirectly by the issuer, the securities of such intermediate entity that have) a separate CUSIP number shall be deemed to be a series of the issuer's long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is separate from each other series of such indebtedness.
          "" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and any regional Bank in which the Corporation owns stock or their successor as the Corporation's primary federal banking regulator, or the staff thereof.
Federal Reserve
Federal Reserve
          "" means, as to the Covered Debt then in effect, each holder of such Covered Debt as reflected on the securities register maintained by or on behalf of the Corporation with respect to such Covered Debt.
Holder
          "" means 5.875% junior subordinated debentures due 2035, underlying the 5.875% trust preferred securities of USB Capital VII (CUSIP No. 903301208).
Initial Covered Debt
          "" means, as to any Qualifying Preferred Stock or Qualifying Capital Securities, that the issuer has publicly stated its intention, either in the prospectus or other offering document under which such securities were initially offered for sale or in filings with the Commission made by the issuer under the Securities Exchange Act prior to or contemporaneously with the issuance of such securities, that the issuer or any Subsidiary of the issuer will repay, redeem or purchase such securities only with the proceeds of replacement capital securities that have terms and provisions at the time of repayment, redemption or purchase that are as or more equity-like than the securities then being repaid, redeemed or purchased, raised within 180 days prior to the applicable redemption or purchase date. Notwithstanding the use of the term "Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure" in the definitions of "Qualifying Capital Securities" and "Qualifying Preferred Stock", the requirement in each such definition that a particular security or the related transaction documents include Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure shall be disregarded and given no force or effect for so long as the Corporation is a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended.
Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure
          "" means cumulative or non-cumulative preferred stock with (a) no prepayment obligation on the part of the issuer thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise and (b) a requirement that the preferred stock convert into Common Stock of the Corporation within three years from the date of its issuance at a conversion ratio within a range established at the time of issuance of the preferred stock, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments.
Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock
          "" means, as to any Qualifying Capital Securities, provisions in the terms thereof or of the related transaction agreements that:
Mandatory Trigger Provision
     (a) require the issuer of such securities to make payment of Distributions on such securities only pursuant to the issue and sale of APM
 
Qualifying Securities within two years of a failure of the issuer to satisfy one or more financial tests set forth in the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements, in amount such that the net proceeds of such sale are at least equal to the amount of unpaid Distributions on such securities (including without limitation all deferred and accumulated amounts) and require the application of the net proceeds of such sale to pay such unpaid Distributions, that (i) if the Mandatory Trigger Provision does not require the issuance and sale within one year of such failure, the amount of Common Stock and/or Qualifying Warrants the net proceeds of which the issuer must apply to pay such Distributions pursuant to such provision may not exceed the Common Cap and (ii) the amount of Qualifying Preferred Stock and still outstanding Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock the net proceeds of which the issuer may apply to pay such Distributions pursuant to such provision may not exceed the Preferred Cap;
provided
     (b) if the provisions described in clause (a) do not require such issuance and sale within one year of such failure, include a Repurchase Restriction;
     (c) include a Bankruptcy Claim Limitation Provision; and
     (d) prohibit the issuer of such securities from repaying, redeeming or purchasing any of its securities ranking upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation junior to or pari passu with any APM Qualifying Securities the proceeds of which were used to settle deferred interest during the relevant deferral period prior to the date six months after the issuer applies the net proceeds of the sales described in clause (a) above to pay such deferred Distributions in full (subject to the exceptions set forth in clauses (i) through (iii) of the definition of Repurchase Restrictions);
(and it being understood) that:
provided
     (a) the issuer will not be obligated to issue (or use Commercially Reasonable Efforts to issue) APM Qualifying Securities for so long as a Market Disruption Event has occurred and is continuing;
     (b) if, due to a Market Disruption Event or otherwise, the issuer is able to raise and apply some, but not all, of the eligible proceeds necessary to pay all deferred Distributions on any Distribution Date, the issuer will apply any available eligible proceeds to pay accrued and unpaid Distributions on the applicable Distribution Date in chronological order subject to the Common Cap and Preferred Cap, as applicable; and
     (c) if the issuer has outstanding more than one class or series of securities under which it is obligated to sell a type of APM Qualifying Securities and applies some part of the proceeds to the payment of deferred Distributions, then on any date and for any period the amount of net proceeds received by the issuer from those sales and available for payment of deferred Distributions on
 
such securities shall be applied to such securities on a basis up to the Common Cap and the Preferred Cap, as applicable, in proportion to the total amounts that are due on such securities.
pro rata
No remedy other than Permitted Remedies will arise by the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements in favor of the holders of such Qualifying Capital Securities as a result of the issuer's failure to pay Distributions because of the Mandatory Trigger Provision until Distributions have been deferred for one or more consecutive Distribution Periods that total together at least ten years. It is acknowledged that as of the date hereof the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has not approved a Mandatory Trigger Provision in securities issued by a bank holding company and treated as Tier 1 capital for the bank holding company.
          "" means the occurrence or existence of any of the following events or sets of circumstances:
Market Disruption Event
     (a) the Corporation would be required to obtain the consent or approval of its shareholders or a regulatory body (including, without limitation, any securities exchange) or governmental authority to issue or sell APM Qualifying Securities and such consent or approval has not yet been obtained notwithstanding the Corporation's commercially reasonable efforts to obtain such consent or approval or the Federal Reserve instructs the Corporation not to sell or offer for sale APM Qualifying Securities or not to use the proceeds of such a sale to pay deferred Distributions under an Alternative Payment Mechanism at such time;
     (b) trading in securities generally (or in the Corporation's Common Stock or preferred stock specifically) on the New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities exchange or over-the-counter market on which the Common Stock and/or the Corporation's preferred stock is then listed or traded shall have been suspended or the settlement of such trading generally shall have been materially disrupted or minimum prices shall have been established on any such exchange or market by the Commission, by the relevant exchange or by any other regulatory body or governmental body having jurisdiction, and the establishment of such minimum prices materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, APM Qualifying Securities;
     (c) a banking moratorium shall have been declared by the federal or state authorities of the United States and such moratorium materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, the APM Qualifying Securities;
     (d) a material disruption shall have occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States and such disruption materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, the APM Qualifying Securities;
     (e) the United States shall have become engaged in hostilities, there shall have been an escalation in hostilities involving the United States, there shall have been a
 
declaration of a national emergency or war by the United States or there shall have occurred any other national or international calamity or crisis and such event materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, the APM Qualifying Securities;
     (f) there shall have occurred such a material adverse change in general domestic or international economic, political or financial conditions, including without limitation as a result of terrorist activities, and such change materially disrupts or otherwise has a material adverse effect on trading in, or the issuance and sale of, the APM Qualifying Securities;
     (g) an event occurs and is continuing as a result of which the offering document for such offer and sale of APM Qualifying Securities would, in the reasonable judgment of the Corporation, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and either (i) the disclosure of that event at such time, in the reasonable judgment of the Corporation, is not otherwise required by law and would have a material adverse effect on the business of the Corporation or (ii) the disclosure relates to a previously undisclosed proposed or pending material business transaction, the disclosure of which would impede the ability of the Corporation to consummate such transaction, that no single suspension period contemplated by this paragraph (g) shall exceed 90 consecutive days and multiple suspension periods contemplated by this paragraph (g) shall not exceed an aggregate of 180 days in any 360-day period; or
provided
     (h) the Corporation reasonably believes, for reasons other than those referred to in paragraph (g) above, that the offering document for such offer and sale of APM Qualifying Securities would not be in compliance with a rule or regulation of the Commission and the Corporation is unable to comply with such rule or regulation or such compliance is unduly burdensome, that no single suspension period contemplated by this paragraph (h) shall exceed 90 consecutive days and multiple suspension periods contemplated by this paragraph (h) shall not exceed an aggregate of 180 days in any 360-day period.
provided
          The definition of "" as used in any Replacement Capital Securities may include less than all of the paragraphs outlined above, as determined by the Corporation at the time of issuance of such securities, and in the case of clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d), as applicable to a circumstance where the Corporation would otherwise endeavor to issue preferred stock, shall be limited to circumstances affecting markets where the Corporation's preferred stock trades or where a listing for its trading is being sought.
Market Disruption Event
          "" means, on any date, the closing sale price per share of Common Stock (or if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on that date as reported in composite transactions by the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported by the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded or quoted; if the Common Stock is not either listed or quoted on any U.S. securities exchange on the relevant date, the market price will be the average of the
Market Value
 
mid-point of the bid and ask prices for the Common Stock on the relevant date submitted by at least three nationally recognized independent investment banking firms selected for this purpose by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a committee thereof.
          "" means, with respect to any Qualifying Capital Securities, a limit on the total number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued by the Corporation pursuant to the Alternative Payment Mechanism with respect to such Qualifying Capital Securities or on the total number of shares of Common Stock underlying all Qualifying Warrants that may be issued by the Corporation pursuant to such Alternative Payment Mechanism, provided that the product of such Maximum Share Number and the Market Value of the Common Stock as of the date of issuance of such Qualifying Capital Securities shall not represent a lower proportion of the aggregate principal or liquidation amount, as applicable, of such Qualifying Capital Securities than the product of the Maximum Share Number applicable to the Shares multiplied by the Market Value of the Common Stock as of the date of issuance of such Shares represents of the aggregate liquidation amount of such Shares.
Maximum Share Number
          "" means, with respect to any repayment, redemption or purchase of securities, the date six months prior to the delivery of notice of such repayment, redemption or the date of such purchase.
Measurement Date
          "" means the period from a Measurement Date to the related notice date or purchase date.
Measurement Period
          "" means, as to any security, that the terms of such security provide for Distributions that are non-cumulative and may be skipped by the issuer for any number of Distribution Periods without any remedy arising by the terms of such securities or related transaction agreements in favor of the holders of such securities as a result of the issuer's failure to pay Distributions, other than Permitted Remedies.
Non-Cumulative
          "" means a provision or provisions in the transaction documents for securities (referred to in this definition as ) that include the following:
No Payment Provision
"such securities"
     (a) an Alternative Payment Mechanism; and
     (b) an Optional Deferral Provision modified and supplemented from the general definition of that term to provide that the issuer of such securities may, in its sole discretion, or (if the issuer elects to so provide in the terms of such securities) shall in response to a directive or order from, or memorandum of understanding with, the Federal Reserve, defer in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more consecutive Distribution Periods of up to five years or, if a Market Disruption Event has occurred and is continuing, ten years, without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies and the obligations (and limitations on obligations) described in the definition of "Alternative Payment Mechanism" applying.
          "" means a nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Securities Exchange Act.
NRSRO
 
          "" means, as to any security or combination of securities, a provision in the terms thereof or of the related transaction agreements to the effect of either (a) or (b) below:
Optional Deferral Provision
     (a)(i) the issuer of such securities may, in its sole discretion, or in response to a directive order from a Primary Federal Bank Regulatory Agency, defer or skip in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more Distribution Periods (whether or not consecutive) of up to five years or, if a Market Disruption Event is continuing, up to a total of ten years, without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies and (ii) such securities are subject to an Alternate Payment Mechanism (provided that such Alternate Payment Mechanism need not apply during the first five years of any deferral period and need not include a Common Cap, Preferred Cap, Bankruptcy Claims Limitation Provision or Repurchase Restriction); or
     (b) the issuer of such securities may, in its sole discretion, or in response to a directive order from a Primary Federal Bank Regulatory Agency, defer or skip in whole or in part payment of Distributions on such securities for one or more Distribution Periods (whether or not consecutive) for up to ten years, without any remedy other than Permitted Remedies.
          "" means, as to any security or combination of securities, one or more of the following remedies:
Permitted Remedies
     (a) rights in favor of the holders thereof permitting such holders to elect one or more directors of the Corporation or a Subsidiary of the Corporation (including any such rights required by the listing requirements of any stock or securities exchange on which such securities may be listed or traded); and
     (b) complete or partial prohibitions on the Corporation or a Subsidiary of the Corporation paying Distributions on or purchasing or redeeming Common Stock or other securities that rank pari passu with or junior as to Distributions to such securities for so long as Distributions on such securities, including deferred Distributions, have not been paid in full.
          "" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, limited liability company or corporation, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
          "" has the meaning specified in clause (g) of the definition of Alternative Payment Mechanism.
Preferred Cap
          "" means, as to the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries at any time, the Federal bank regulatory agency that has primary regulatory authority with respect to the Corporation or such Subsidiary.
Primary Federal Bank Regulatory Agency
          "" has the meaning specified in Recital B.
Prospectus Supplement
 
          "" means securities (other than Common Stock, rights to acquire Common Stock, Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity, Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity or Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock) that, in the determination of the Corporation's Board of Directors or the relevant committee thereof reasonably construing the definitions and other terms of this Replacement Capital Covenant, meet one of the following criteria:
Qualifying Capital Securities
     (a) securities issued by the Corporation or any Subsidiary that (i) rank junior upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation to all debt of the Corporation for borrowed money, other than trade payables and any junior subordinated debt that is expressly made with such securities in the instrument creating the same, (ii) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 51 years and (iii) either:
pari passu
     (x) are Non-Cumulative or have a No Payment Provision and are subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant, or
     (y) have an Optional Deferral Provision and a Mandatory Trigger Provision and are subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure;
     (b) securities issued by the Corporation or any Subsidiary that (i) rank junior upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation to all debt of the Corporation for borrowed money, other than trade payables and any junior subordinated debt that is expressly made pari passu with such securities in the instrument creating the same, (ii) have no maturity or a maturity of at least 31 years and are subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant and (iii) have an Optional Deferral Provision and a Mandatory Trigger Provision; or
     (c) preferred stock of the Corporation or any Subsidiary (i) that has no prepayment obligation on the part of the issuer thereof, whether at the election of the holders or otherwise, (ii) that has no maturity or a maturity of at least 51 years, (iii) that either (x) is subject to a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant or (y) is subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure and has a provision that prohibits the Corporation from paying any dividends thereon upon its failure to satisfy one or more financial tests set forth therein, and (iv) as to which the transaction documents provide for no remedies as a consequence of non-payment of dividends other than Permitted Remedies.
          "" means preferred stock of the Corporation that (a) is Non-Cumulative, (b) ranks pari passu with or junior to all other outstanding preferred stock of the Corporation, (c) is perpetual and (d) is subject to either a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant or provides for mandatory deferral tied to the breach of certain financial triggers and is subject to Intent-Based Replacement Disclosure, and in each case as to which the transaction documents provide for no remedies as a consequence of non-payment of Distributions other than Permitted Remedies.
Qualifying Preferred Stock
 
          "" means a replacement capital covenant that is substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or a replacement capital covenant, as identified by the Corporation's Board of Directors acting in its reasonable discretion and reasonably construing the definitions and other terms of this Replacement Capital Covenant, (a) entered into by a company that at the time it enters into such replacement capital covenant is a reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act and (b) that restricts the related issuer from repaying, redeeming or purchasing identified securities except to the extent of the applicable percentage of the net proceeds from the issuance of specified replacement capital securities that have terms and provisions at the time of redemption, repayment or purchase that are as or more equity-like than the securities then being repaid, redeemed or purchased within the 180-day period prior to the applicable redemption, repayment or purchase date.
Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant
          "" means net share settled warrants to purchase Common Stock that (a) have an exercise price greater than the current stock market price (as defined below) of the Common Stock as of the date the Corporation agrees to issue the warrants, and (b) the Corporation is not entitled to redeem for cash and the holders of which are not entitled to require it to repurchase for cash in any circumstances. The Corporation intends that any Qualifying Warrants issued in accordance with an Alternative Payment Mechanism will have exercise prices at least 10% above the current stock market price of its Common Stock on the date of issuance. The "" means, with respect to Common Stock on any date, (a) the closing sale price per share (or if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the bid and ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average bid and the average ask prices) on that date as reported in composite transactions by the New York Stock Exchange or if Common Stock is not then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported by the principal U.S. securities exchange on which Common Stock is traded or quoted on the relevant date, (b) if Common Stock is not listed on any U.S. securities exchange on the relevant date the last quoted bid price for Common Stock in the over-the-counter market on the relevant date as reported by the National Quotation Bureau or similar organization, or (iii) if Common Stock is not so quoted the average of the mid-point of the last bid and ask prices for Common Stock on the relevant date from each of at least three nationally recognized independent investment banking firms selected by the Corporation for this purpose.
Qualifying Warrants
current stock market price
          "" means, as to the then-effective Covered Debt, the earliest of (a) the date that is two years prior to the final maturity date of such Covered Debt, (b) if the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries elects to repay or redeem, or the Corporation or any of its Subsidiaries elects to purchase, such Covered Debt either in whole or in part with the consequence that after giving effect to such repayment, redemption or repurchase the outstanding aggregate principal amount of such Covered Debt is less than $100,000,000, the applicable repayment, redemption or purchase date and (c) if such Covered Debt is not Eligible Subordinated Debt, the date on which the Corporation or U.S. Bank issues long-term indebtedness for money borrowed that is Eligible Subordinated Debt.
Redesignation Date
          "" means Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock of a Subsidiary of a Depository Institution Subsidiary, which may or may not be a "real estate investment trust" ("REIT") within the meaning of Section 856 of the Internal Revenue Code of
REIT Preferred Securities
 
1986, as amended, that is exchangeable for Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock of the Corporation and satisfies the following requirements:
     (a) such Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock of a Subsidiary of a Depository Institution Subsidiary and the related Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock of the Corporation for which it may be exchanged qualifies as Tier 1 or core capital of a Depository Institution Subsidiary under the risk-based capital guidelines of the appropriate Primary Federal Bank Regulatory Agency and related interpretive guidance (for example, in the case of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Corporate Decision 97-109);
     (b) such Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock of a Subsidiary of a Depository Institution Subsidiary must be exchangeable automatically into Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock of the Corporation in the event that the appropriate Primary Federal Bank Regulatory Agency directs such Depository Institution Subsidiary in writing to make a conversion because such Depository Institution Subsidiary is (i) undercapitalized under the applicable prompt corrective action regulations (which, for example, in the case of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and applicable to national banks, are at 12 C.F.R. 6.4(b)), (ii) placed into conservatorship or receivership, or (iii) expected to become undercapitalized in the near term;
     (c) if such Subsidiary of the Depositary Institution Subsidiary is a REIT, the transaction documents include provisions that would require the Subsidiary to declare "consent dividends" (to the maximum extent permitted by Internal Revenue Code Sections 565 and 562(c)) if it were to stop paying Distributions on its Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock, as is necessary to maintain its status as a REIT;
     (d) such Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock of the Corporation issued upon exchange for the Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock of a Subsidiary of a Depository Institution Subsidiary, issued as part of such transaction, ranks pari passu or junior to other preferred stock of the Corporation; and
     (e) such Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock of a Subsidiary of a Depository Institution Subsidiary and Non-Cumulative perpetual preferred stock of the Corporation for which it may be exchanged are subject to a replacement capital covenant substantially similar to this Replacement Capital Covenant or a Qualifying Replacement Capital Covenant.
          "" has the meaning specified in the introduction to this instrument.
Replacement Capital Covenant
          "" means Common Stock, rights to acquire Common Stock, Debt Exchangeable for Common Equity, Debt Exchangeable for Preferred Equity, Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, REIT Preferred Securities or Qualifying Capital Securities.
Replacement Capital Securities
 
          "" means, with respect to any Qualifying Capital Securities that include an Alternative Payment Mechanism or a Mandatory Trigger Provision, provisions that require the Corporation and its Subsidiaries not to repay, redeem or purchase any of its securities ranking junior to or pari passu with any APM Qualifying Securities the proceeds of which were used to settle deferred interest during the relevant deferral period until at least one year after all deferred Distributions have been paid, except where non-payment would cause the Corporation to breach the terms of the relevant instrument, other than the following (none of which shall be restricted or prohibited by a Repurchase Restriction):
Repurchase Restriction
     (a) purchases of such Securities by Subsidiaries in connection with the distribution thereof or market-making or other secondary market activities;
     (b) purchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Common Stock in connection with any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of employees, officers, directors or consultants; or
     (c) purchases of shares of Common Stock pursuant to a contractually binding requirement to buy Common Stock entered into prior to the beginning of the related deferral period, including under a contractually binding stock repurchase plan.
          "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Securities Exchange Act
          "" has the meaning specified in Recital A.
Shares
          "" means, at any time, any Person the shares of stock or other ownership interests of which having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other managers of such Person are at the time owned, or the management or policies of which are otherwise at the time controlled, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries (including other Subsidiaries) or both, by another Person.
Subsidiary
          "" means U.S. Bank National Association.
U.S. Bank
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 4(a).
Termination Date


