FILE:USB/USB-8K-20081209171715.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.02 Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 9, 2008, U.S. Bancorp (the "Company") entered into an amendment (the "Amendment") to the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of December 31, 2002, by and between the Company and Mellon Investor Services LLC, as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agreement"). The Amendment changes the final expiration date of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock purchase rights (the "Rights") issued pursuant to the Rights Agreement from February 27, 2011, to December 9, 2008. Accordingly, the Rights expired at the close of business on December 9, 2008, and the Rights Agreement has been terminated and is of no further force and effect. The Rights will be de-listed from the New York Stock Exchange and de-registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. A copy of the Amendment is attached as Exhibit 4.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 3.03 Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders.
The information set forth in each of Item 1.02 and Item 5.03 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference in response to this Item 3.03.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
In connection with the termination of the Rights Agreement, on December 9, 2008, the Company filed a Certificate of Elimination (the "Certificate of Elimination") with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware to eliminate all references in the Companys Restated Certificate of Incorporation to the Companys Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. A copy of the Certificate of Elimination is attached as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in response to this Item 5.03.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On December 8, 2008, the Credit and Finance Committee of the Companys Board of Directors approved a new common stock repurchase program to replace the Companys expiring share repurchase program. Under the new authorization, the Company may repurchase up to 20,000,000 shares of its common stock in connection with the administration of its employee benefits plans in the ordinary course of business (including purchases to offset dilution resulting from such plans) solely to the extent permitted under the terms of the Capital Purchase Program under the Troubled Asset Relief Program with the United States Department of the Treasury. The new repurchase program expires on December 31, 2010, or on such earlier date as the Chief Financial Officer of the Company may determine.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. 3.1 Certificate of Elimination of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. 4.1 First Amendment, dated as of December 9, 2008, to Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of December 31, 2002, between U.S. Bancorp and Mellon Investor Services LLC.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

U.S. Bancorp, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Company"), in accordance with the provisions of Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, hereby certifies as follows:
1. Pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Directors of the Company by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), the Board of Directors previously adopted resolutions creating and authorizing the issuance of 4,000,000 shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock (the "Series A Preferred Stock") in accordance with the provisions of a Certificate of Designations relating to the Series A Preferred Stock (the "Series A Certificate of Designations") as filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on March 1, 2001.
2. None of the authorized shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding and none will be issued subject to the Series A Certificate of Designations.
3. Pursuant to the authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company pursuant to the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors adopted the resolutions on December 9, 2008, approving the filing of a Certificate of Elimination of the Series A Preferred Stock (the "Series A Certificate of Elimination") and the elimination of the Series A Preferred Stock set forth below:
RESOLVED, that none of the authorized shares of the Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding, and that none shall be issued pursuant to the Series A Certificate of Designations; and be it
FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Authorized Officers of the Company are authorized and directed, in the name and on behalf of the Company, to prepare, execute and deliver to the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware the Series A Certificate of Elimination, as required by the Delaware General Corporation Law in order to effect the elimination of the Series A Preferred Stock; and be it
FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Authorized Officers of the Company are hereby authorized and directed for and on behalf of the Company, to execute and deliver any and all certificates, agreements and other documents, take any and all steps and do any and all things which they may deem necessary or advisable in order to effectuate the purposes of each and all of the foregoing resolutions; and be it
FURTHER RESOLVED, that any actions taken by the Authorized Officers prior to the date of this meeting that are within the authority conferred hereby are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved in all respects as the act and deed of the Company.
4. In accordance with the provisions of Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, all matters set forth in the Series A Certificate of Designations be, and hereby are, eliminated from the Certificate of Incorporation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Elimination to be executed by its duly authorized officer on this 9th day of December, 2008.

This First Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated as of December 9, 2008 (this "Amendment"), is between U.S. Bancorp, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Mellon Investor Services LLC, a New Jersey limited liability company, as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agent").
WHEREAS, the Company and the Rights Agent are parties to an Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of December 31, 2002 (the "Rights Agreement");
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 27 of the Rights Agreement, prior to such time as any Person becomes an Acquiring Person, the Company may supplement or amend the Rights Agreement without the approval of the holders of Rights;
WHEREAS, no Person has become an Acquiring Person;
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company has determined to amend the Rights Agreement as provided in this Amendment; and
WHEREAS, the Rights Agent has agreed to execute any supplement or amendment to the Rights Agreement if the Company delivers to the Rights Agent a certificate from an appropriate officer of the Company stating that such amendment or supplement complies with Section 27 of the Rights Agreement, and the Company has delivered such a certificate with respect to this Amendment to the Rights Agent.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the Company and the Rights Agent hereby agree as follows:
Section 1. . Capitalized terms used in this Amendment but not otherwise defined shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Rights Agreement.
Certain Definitions
Section 2. .
Amendments
A. Section 7(a) of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Section 7. .
Exercise of Rights: Purchase Price; Expiration Date of Rights
(a) The registered holder of any Right Certificate may exercise the Rights evidenced thereby (except as otherwise provided herein), in whole or in part, at any time after the Distribution Date, upon surrender of the Right Certificate, with the form of election to purchase on the reverse side thereof duly executed, to the Rights Agent at the office of the Rights Agent designated for such purpose, together with payment of the Purchase Price for each one one-thousandth of a Preferred Share as to which the Rights are exercised, at or prior to the earliest of (i) the Close of Business on December 9, 2008 (the "Final Expiration Date"), or (ii) the time at which the Rights are redeemed as provided in Section 23 hereof ("Redemption Date"), or (iii) the time at which such Rights are exchanged as provided for in Section 24.
B. Exhibit B (Form of Right Certificate) and Exhibit C (Summary of Rights to Purchase Preferred Shares) to the Rights Agreement are hereby amended to replace the words "February 27, 2011" with the words "December 9, 2008" in all places where such words appear.
Section 3. . This Amendment shall be effective as of the date first above written, and, except as set forth herein, the Rights Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall be otherwise unaffected hereby. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each of the Company and the Rights Agent acknowledges and agrees that, at the Close of Business on the Final Expiration Date (as defined in this Amendment), the Rights Agreement shall terminate and be of no further force and effect, except as to those provisions of the Rights Agreement that expressly survive the termination of the Rights Agreement, the exercise or expiration of the Rights and the resignation or removal of the Rights Agent.
Effective Date; Remaining Terms
Section 4. . If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Amendment is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Amendment shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated.
Severability
Section 5. . This Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of Delaware and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of such state applicable to contracts to be made and performed entirely within such state; except that all provisions regarding the rights, duties, obligations and immunities of the Rights Agent shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such State.
Governing Law
Section 6. . Descriptive headings of the several sections of this Amendment are inserted for convenience only and shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions hereof.
Descriptive Headings
Section 7. . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed and attested, all as of the day and year first above written.


