FILE:USB/USB-8K-20090107070337.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) In order primarily to comply with the requirements of Section 409A ("Section 409A") of the Internal Revenue Code, U.S. Bancorp (the "Company") has made certain amendments to various compensatory plans and agreements and adopted new forms of stock incentive award agreements. Effective as of January 1, 2009, the Company:
Effective as of December 31, 2008, the Company:
A brief summary of these amendments and the changes contained in the new forms of agreements listed above is set forth below. Copies of each of the amendments and the new forms of the agreements are attached as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and are incorporated herein by reference. The descriptions in this report of the amendments and new forms of agreements are qualified in their entirety by reference to such exhibits.
Amendments to Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plans
In October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 amended the Internal Revenue Code to add Section 409A, which imposes significant restrictions on non-qualified deferred compensation. Section 409A generally applies to non-qualified plans that provide for payment of compensation in a taxable year later than the taxable year in which the participant becomes vested in such compensation. Among other things, Section 409A imposed new requirements with respect to the timing of distributions, deferral elections and payment elections.
In order to achieve compliance with Section 409A, the Company has amended the Company's Non-Qualified Executive Retirement Plan, the Company's 2005 Executive Employees Deferred Compensation Plan and the Company's 2005 Outside Directors Deferred Compensation Plan (collectively, the "Deferred Compensation Plans"). These amendments were generally technical in nature, and the amount of benefits a participant will be entitled to receive under any of the Deferred Compensation Plans will be actuarially equivalent to the amount of such benefits prior to the amendments.
The Deferred Compensation Plans were also amended to update administrative procedures and conform such procedures among the different Deferred Compensation Plans. In addition, the Company's Non-Qualified Retirement Plan was amended to provide benefits to domestic partners in order to comply with state and local law requirements, and to allow for the division of a participant's benefits under a domestic relations order in certain circumstances.
 
Amendment to 2007 Incentive Plan
In accordance with the final regulations issued under Section 409A, a technical amendment to the 2007 Incentive Plan was made so that the defined term "Specified Employees" incorporates the definition of such term contained in the Company's Specified Employee Policy.
Amendment to Stock Unit Award Agreements for Non-Employee Directors
The Company has entered into amendments to the restricted stock unit award agreements issued to non-employee directors under the Company's 2001 Stock Incentive Plan. The amendments modified the definition of "Change in Control" and made other technical changes to comply with Section 409A requirements.
Amendments to Executive Severance Agreements
The Company entered into amendments to the executive severance agreements with certain of the Company's executive officers, including Richard K. Davis, Andrew Cecere, William L. Chenevich, Pamela A. Joseph and Lee R. Mitau. The amendments changed the definition of "Good Reason" to conform to Section 409A. In addition, the amendments clarified certain provisions of the agreements and made other technical changes to achieve compliance with Section 409A.
Amendment to Employment Agreement
The Company entered into an amendment to the Employment Agreement dated May 7, 2001, with Pamela A. Joseph. In order to achieve compliance with Section 409A, the amendment changed the definitions of "Change in Control" and "Good Reason" and provided for a six-month delay in the date on which termination payments will be made. The amendment also made other technical changes to the Employment Agreement in order to comply with Section 409A and clarify certain provisions of the agreement.
New Forms of Stock Incentive Award Agreements for Executive Officers
The Company adopted a new form of non-qualified stock option agreement to be used for the issuance after December 31, 2008, of non-qualified stock options to executive officers under the 2007 Incentive Plan. The new form of agreement clarifies the definition of "Retirement" and the provisions of the agreement relating to the ability to exercise options following death, disability or retirement of the optionee.
The Company also adopted a new form of restricted stock award agreement to be used for the issuance after December 31, 2008, of restricted stock awards to executive officers under the 2007 Incentive Plan. The new form of agreement provides that the option will become fully vested upon the disability of the awardee, and does not permit continued vesting after the awardee's retirement.
In addition, the Company adopted a new form of restricted stock unit agreement for executive officers that incorporates certain technical rules related to the definition of "Separation from Service" in accordance with Section 409A. The new form of agreement will be used for restricted stock unit awards made after December 31, 2008.
New Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement for Non-Employee Directors
The Company adopted a new form of restricted stock unit agreement for restricted stock unit awards made after December 31, 2008, to non-employee directors under the 2007 Incentive Plan. The new form of agreement modifies the definition of "Change in Control" and clarifies certain other provisions of the agreement to comply with Section 409A.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 6, 2009
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1(g)
     The U.S. Bancorp Non-Qualified Retirement Plan (the "Plan") is amended in the following respects:
1. PARTICIPANTS. Effective December 1, 2005, as permitted under Notice 2005-1, Q&A 20, the Participants listed on Schedule I attached to this amendment shall have their benefits under the Plan, as identified on such Schedule I, terminated and shall be paid an actuarial equivalent amount (determined as provided in item 2) in a single lump sum on or before December 31, 2005, such that the lump sum amount will be included in the participants' income in 2005. In general, the Participants included on this schedule are Participants:
(i) who terminated employment with the Company, its affiliates, or predecessors before December 1, 2005,
(ii) who are not in active employment with the Company, its affiliates, or predecessors as of December 1, 2005,
(iii) who have a benefit under, or have commenced or are receiving a benefit under Section IV or Section V of the Plan (including the plans listed in individual appendices under Appendix A), and
(iv) whose benefit under the Plan has an actuarial equivalent value equal to or less than $500 per month (as determined by the Company).
Notwithstanding the foregoing, and for greater clarity, this amendment shall apply only to those Participants listed on Schedule I attached to this amendment, and only to such participants' deferred compensation as reflected on such Schedule I. The rights of all other Participants in the Plan shall not be modified or affected by this amendment.
2. ACTUARIAL EQUIVALENT AMOUNT. The actuarial factors shall be as follows:
(i) The interest rate shall be 5.7%.
(ii) The mortality table shall be the sex distinct UP94 mortality table.
(iii) The present values shall be calculated as of December 1, 2005.
3. PLAN. Effective January 1, 2006, Section 2.22 of the Plan is amended by changing the name of the plan to be "U.S. BANK NON-QUALIFIED RETIREMENT PLAN". Other references to the plan name (except those in Section 1) shall also be changed to reflect the change in the name.
4. SAVINGS CLAUSE. Save and except as expressly amended above, the Plan shall continue in full force and effect.

Exhibit 10.1(h)
     The U.S. Bank Non-Qualified Retirement Plan (the "Plan") is amended in the following respects:
1. OPTIONAL PAYMENT FORMS. Effective January 1, 2005, the fourth full paragraph Section 4.3 of the Plan (which begins, "No optional payment . . .") shall be deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following paragraph:
If a Participant was married at the time that the last optional payment election form was filed by such Participant at least twelve full months prior to the Participant's termination of employment and either (a) the Participant is married to a different spouse on the date the Participant's benefit commences, or (b) if the spouse was named as a joint annuitant on such last optional payment election form and the spouse dies before the date the Participant's benefit commences, then (in either case) the Participant's optional payment election shall be void and have no effect, and the Participant's benefit shall be paid in the applicable normal form described in Section 4.2.
2. FORM OF PAYMENT. Effective January 1, 2005, Section 5.5 of the Plan shall be amended to a sentence to the end of Section 5.5 that reads as follows:
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the various plans, contracts or arrangements set forth in this Article 5 and related Appendices, there shall be no requirement that a married Participant obtain written spousal consent and spousal signature notarization with respect to any optional payment election form.
3. OPTIONAL PAYMENT FORMS. Effective January 1, 2005, the second full paragraph Section 6.6 of the Plan (which begins, "No optional payment . . .") shall be deleted and replaced in its entirety with the following paragraph:
If a Participant was married at the time that the last optional payment election form was filed by such Participant at least twelve full months prior to the Participant's termination of employment and either (a) the Participant is married to a different spouse on the date the Participant's benefit commences, or (b) if the spouse was named as a joint annuitant on such last optional payment election form and the spouse dies before the date the Participant's benefit commences, then (in either case) the Participant's optional payment election shall be void and have no effect, and the Participant's benefit shall be paid in the normal form described in the applicable Appendix B.
4. SAVINGS CLAUSE. Save and except as expressly amended above, the Plan shall continue in full force and effect.

Exhibit 10.1(i)
     I, Jennie Carlson, certify that I am the Executive Vice President, Human Resources of U.S. Bancorp, a Delaware corporation, and that, pursuant to authority granted to me by the Benefits Administration Committee, I take the following actions:
     U.S. Bancorp sponsors a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the U.S. Bank Non-Qualified Retirement Plan (the "Plan"), most recently set forth in a document entitled "U.S. Bank Non-Qualified Retirement Plan (2002 Statement)."
     The Benefits Administration Committee has determined that the Plan should be amended to permit division of vested benefits under the Plan for the Participant named in Appendix B-4 under a court-approved domestic relations order that is also approved by the plan administrator.
     Therefore, by this amendment (which is the Ninth Amendment to the U.S. Bank Non-Qualified Retirement Plan), effective as of February 1, 2008, the Plan is amended to permit division of vested benefits under the Plan for the Participant named in Appendix B-4 under a court-approved domestic relations order that is also approved by the plan administrator.

Exhibit 10.1(j)
     The U.S. Bank Non-Qualified Retirement Plan (the "Plan") is amended in the following respects:
1. SECTION 409A. Effective January 1, 2009, a new Section 1.7 shall be added to the Plan that reads as follows:
1.7. . The Tenth Amendment amended the Plan for section 409A of the Code. For certain Participants whose benefit was earned and vested as of December 31, 2004, the intent is that the benefit of these Participants be grandfathered, including:
Section 409A
With respect to Participants in Appendices B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, B-5, B-6, and Appendix B-11, any benefit earned and vested as of December 31, 2004 is intended to be grandfathered. Unless an amendment specifically states that the amendment applies to the benefits and rights of Grandfathered Participants described in this Section 1.7 (and more fully described in Sections 2.20 and  2.21), the amendment shall not apply to the Grandfathered Amounts for Grandfathered Participants.
2. BENEFITS ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE (BAC). Effective January 1, 2009, a new Section 2.3 of the Plan shall be added (with the current Section 2.3 renumbered and subsequent sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate) that reads as follows:
2.3.  the Benefits Administration Committee of the Company (and its successor or, if no such committee exists, the Executive Vice President, Human Resources of the Company).
Benefits Administration Committee and BAC
 
3. COMPANY. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 2.5A of the Plan shall be renumbered as Section 2.7 (with the prior Section 2.7 and subsequent sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate).
4. DISABILITY OR DISABLED. Effective for payments to Participants based on a determination a Participant is Disabled on and after January 1, 2009 (except this section shall not apply to payment of Grandfathered Amounts to Grandfathered Participants  a determination of disability for payment to such Participants shall be governed under the provision in place prior to this amendment), Section 2.10 (formerly Section 2.8) of the Plan shall be amended to read as follows:
2.10.  a Participant will be considered disabled if the Participant (i) is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, or (ii) is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three (3) months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Participant's employer.
Disability or Disabled
5. DISABILITY COMMENCEMENT DATE. Effective for payments to Participants based on a determination a Participant is Disabled on and after January 1, 2009 (except this section shall not apply to payment of Grandfathered Amounts to Grandfathered Participants  determination of the Disability Commencement Date for payment of such amounts to such Participants shall be governed under the provision in place prior to this amendment), Section 2.12 (formerly Section 2.10) of the Plan shall be amended to read as follows:
2.12  the first day of the month following the date the BAC determines a Participant is Disabled.
Disability Commencement Date
6. DOMESTIC PARTNER. Effective for payments to Participants that commence on and after January 1, 2009 (except this section shall not apply to payment of Grandfathered Amounts to Grandfathered Participants), a new Section 2.14 shall be added to the Plan (with the prior Section 2.14 and subsequent sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate) that reads as follows:
2.14  a person who has an ongoing and committed spouse-like relationship with a Participant, but only if the Participant certifies in writing to the Company prior to the Participant's death that the Participant has a Domestic Partner. The Company may establish a form or rules for such certifications. Unless otherwise permitted by the BAC, an electronic communication (such as e-mail) will not satisfy this writing requirement.
Domestic Partner
7. GRANDFATHERED AMOUNTS. Effective January 1, 2009, a new Section 2.21 shall be added to the Plan (with the prior Section 2.21 and subsequent sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate) that reads as follows:
 
2.21.  Deferred compensation amounts for Grandfathered Participants that were earned and vested as of December 31, 2004 (and subsequent earnings adjustments to the extent permitted under section 409A of the Code). With respect to excess benefits earned under Article 4, benefits earned on and after January 1, 2002 are generally not intended to be grandfathered (except that the benefits earned and vested for Participants in Appendices B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, B-5, B-6, and Appendix B-11 prior to January 1, 2005 shall be Grandfathered Amounts, and the benefits earned and vested for Participants who did not earn additional benefits on and after January 1, 2005).
Grandfathered Amounts
8. GRANDFATHERED PARTICIPANTS. Effective January 1, 2009, a new Section 2.22 shall be added to the Plan (with the prior Section 2.22 and subsequent sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate) that reads as follows:
2.22.  Participants whose benefits are Grandfathered Amounts include the following categories:
Grandfathered Participants
For Participants actively employed after December 31, 2004, a Participant may be a Grandfathered Participant with respect to a portion of the Participant's benefit (the Grandfathered Amount) and not a Grandfathered Participant with respect to a portion of the participant's benefit (the non-Grandfathered Amount). Participants hired on and after January 1, 2005 who did not have a benefit under the Plan are not Grandfathered Participants.
With respect to Participants in Appendices B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, B-5, B-6, and Appendix B-11, any benefit earned and vested as of December 31, 2004 is intended to be grandfathered. Unless an amendment specifically states that the amendment applies to the benefits and rights of Grandfathered Participants, the amendment shall not apply to the Grandfathered Amounts for Grandfathered Participants.
 
9. SEPARATION FROM SERVICE. Effective for payments to Participants who separate from service on and after January 1, 2009 (except this section shall not apply to payment of Grandfathered Amounts to Grandfathered Participants  determination of separation from service for such Participants shall be governed under the provision in place prior to this amendment), a new Section 2.31 shall be added to the Plan (with the prior Section 2.31 and subsequent sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate) that reads as follows:
2.31.  a Participant's separation from service as defined under section 409A of the Code. For purposes of a Separation from Service, an affiliate shall mean a business entity which is not the Company but which is part of a "controlled group" or under "common control" with the Company, as those terms are defined in section 414(b) and (c) of the Code as required to be aggregated with the Company under section 409A based on eighty percent (80%) or greater control.
Separation from Service
10. SPECIFIED EMPLOYEE. Effective for determinations of who is a specified employee on and after January 1, 2009 (except this section shall not apply to payment of Grandfathered Amounts to Grandfathered Participants), a new Section 2.33 shall be added to the Plan (with the prior Section 2.33 and subsequent sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate) that reads as follows:
2.33.  a Participant who is a specified employee for purposes of section 409A of the Code as defined in the separate document entitled "U.S. Bank Specified Employee Determination."
Specified Employee
11. NORMAL FORM OF EXCESS BENEFIT  WHEN PAYABLE. Effective for payments to Participants that commence benefits on and after January 1, 2009, Section 4.2 of the Plan shall be amended (i) to amend the third sentence (which begins, "The first payment...") shall read as follows:
For payment of Grandfathered Amounts to Grandfathered Participants, the first payment to the Participant shall be due within thirty days after the earliest date on which the Participant could begin receiving any benefits under the Qualified Plan on account of retirement or other termination of employment; for non-Grandfathered Amounts paid to Participants, the first payment to the Participant shall be due on the later of the first day of the month after (i) the Participant's attainment of age 62, or (ii) the Participant's Separation from Service.
and, (ii) to amend the seventh sentence (which begins, "Except for...") to read as follows:
Except for the limited purpose of determining the date when benefit payments under this Plan normally commence for Grandfathered Participants, the rules governing the payment of benefits under the Qualified Plan, and any elections and optional forms of payment in effect under the Qualified Plan, shall be given no effect under this Plan in determining the time or form in which Excess Benefits are paid.
12. OPTIONAL PAYMENT FORMS. Effective for payments to Participants that commence benefits on and after January 1, 2009, Section 4.3 of the Plan shall be amended to read as follows:
 
4.3. .
Optional Payment Forms
     4.3.1. . For non-Grandfathered Amounts, in lieu of payment in the normal form described in Section 4.2 above, a Participant may elect to receive his or her Excess Benefit in any of the following forms:
Non-Grandfathered Amounts
Payment in any of the foregoing forms shall be in an amount that is Actuarially Equal to the Excess Benefit payable in the applicable normal form described in Section 4.2.
In cases where a Participant desires to change the Participant's form of payment, (i) if a Participant's form of payment prior to electing one of the optional forms of payment listed above is an annuity, (ii) the Participant elects an annuity optional form of payment (options (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e)) on or before the date of the Participant's Separation from Service, and (iii) the election is actuarially equivalent applying reasonable actuarial methods and assumptions, then the Participant's benefit shall commence on the same date the benefit would have been paid but for the election of the optional form. In all other cases, if a Participant elects one of these optional payment forms, the election (i) shall not take effect until the date that is twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participant makes the election, (ii) shall delay the distribution to a date that is at least five (5) years after the date the distribution would have been made to the Participant absent the election, and (iii) in the case of a distribution as of a specified time (but not upon a Participant's Separation from Service, Disability, or death), the election shall not take effect unless the Participant makes the election at least twelve (12) months prior to the date the distribution is to commence.
In cases where a Participant desires to change the Participant's time when payment commences, the Participant may pick a later date or the later of a date or Separation from Service subject to rules established by the Committee provided the election (i) shall not take effect until the date that is twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participant makes the election, (ii) shall delay the distribution to a date that is at least five (5) years after the date the distribution would have been made to the Participant absent the election, and (iii) in the case of a distribution as of a specified time (but not upon a Participant's Separation from Service, Disability, or death), the election shall not take effect unless the Participant makes the election at least twelve (12) months prior to the date the distribution is to commence.
 
The Committee may impose limits on the number of elections a Participant may make with respect to changing the form and time of payment. An election form that does not satisfy the advance filing requirements shall be void and shall be disregarded. In all cases an election form shall not be considered filed until the completed form is actually received by the Committee or its designated agent.
     4.3.2. . For Grandfathered Amounts, in lieu of payment in the normal form described in Section 4.2 above, a Participant may elect to receive his or her Excess Benefit in any of the following forms:
Grandfathered Amounts
Payment in any of the foregoing forms shall be in an amount that is Actuarially Equal to the Excess Benefit payable in the applicable normal form described in Section 4.2.
In addition to the foregoing forms, a Participant may also elect to receive his or her Excess Benefit in the form of a single lump sum cash payment; provided, however, that the single lump sum cash payment option shall not be available for distributions to any Participant whose termination of employment occurs prior to 2003 and whose Qualified Plan benefit prior to 2002 did not offer the option to receive payment of the entire Qualified Plan benefit in a single lump sum cash payment without regard to the amount payable. Payment in the form of a single lump sum cash payment shall be in an amount that is Actuarially Equal to the Excess Benefit payable in the applicable normal form described in Section 4.2; provided, however, that such Excess Benefit shall be calculated using the benefits that would have been payable to the Participant commencing on the Participant's Normal Retirement Date (or at the time of the Participant's actual termination of employment, if later), rather than using the benefits that would have been payable to the Participant commencing on the date as of which Excess Benefits are to commence under this Plan.
An election of an optional payment form permitted under this Section 4.3 must be made by the Participant in writing on an election form approved by the Committee and filed with the Committee or its designated agent for this purpose not less than twelve (12) full months prior to the Participant's termination of employment. A Participant may change his or her election at any time by filing another election form; provided, however, that any election form that does not satisfy the advance filing requirements of the preceding sentence shall be void and shall be disregarded. An election form shall not be considered filed until the completed form is actually received by the Committee or its designated agent.
 
If a Participant was married at the time that the last optional payment election form was filed by such Participant at least twelve (12) full months prior to the Participant's termination of employment and either (a) the Participant is married to a different spouse on the date the Participant's benefit commences, or (b) if the spouse was named as a joint annuitant on such last optional payment election form and the spouse dies before the date the Participant's benefit commences, then (in either case) the Participant's optional payment election shall be void and have no effect, and the Participant's benefit shall be paid in the applicable normal form described in Section 4.2.
If a Participant elects an optional payment election form that requires the designation of a joint annuitant and such joint annuitant dies prior to the date the Participant's benefit commences, the Participant's optional payment election shall be void and the Participant's benefit shall be paid in the applicable normal form described in Section 4.2.
Payment in any optional form pursuant to this Section 4.3 shall commence at the same time as the Participant's benefit would have commenced if it had been paid in the normal form of payment unless the Participant specifies a later date in his or her last effective optional payment election form.
13. DOMESTIC PARTNER. Effective for payments made to Participants on and after January 1, 2009 (except this section shall not apply to payment of Grandfathered Amounts to Grandfathered Participants), a new Section 4.4 shall be added to the Plan (with the prior Section 4.4 and subsequent sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate) that reads as follows:
4.4. .
Domestic Partner Annuity Rules
     4.4.1. . In addition to the preceding rules, the survivor benefit payable under Section 4.3(c) (50%, 75%, or 100% joint and survivor annuity) to the Participant's Domestic Partner shall consist of the monthly survivor annuity described in Section 4.4.2 below and a single lump sum payment equal to the excess of the Actuarially Equal present value of the portion of the Participant's Excess Benefit at the time of the Participant's death that the Domestic Partner was designated to receive over the Actuarially Equal present value at the time of the Participant's death of the monthly survivor annuity described in Section 4.4.2, all determined in accordance with Appendix C of the Qualified Plan; provided, however, that if the portion of the Participant's Excess Benefit at the time of the Participant's death that is payable to the Participant's Domestic Partner is less than the value of the monthly survivor annuity described in Section 4.4.2 below, then the Domestic Partner shall be paid only a pro rata portion of such monthly survivor annuity and no lump sum payment.
Domestic Partner
     The first payment of a Domestic Partner's monthly survivor annuity described in Section 4.4.2 below shall be due on the later of the first day of the month after (i) the Participant's attainment of age 62, or (ii) the Participant's Separation from Service. The last payment of this survivor annuity shall be due to the Domestic Partner on the first day of the calendar month in which the Domestic Partner dies. No election, rescission or other action taken by the Participant shall be effective to modify the survivor annuity hereinbefore described.
 
     4.4.2. . The amount of monthly survivor annuity payable to the Participant's Domestic Partner shall be:
Domestic Partner's Annuity
14. SMALL AMOUNTS. Effective for payments made to Participants on and after January 1, 2009 (except this section shall not apply to payment of Grandfathered Amounts to Grandfathered Participants  payment of small amounts to such Participants shall be governed under the provision in place prior to this amendment), Section 4.5 (formerly Section 4.4) shall be amended to read as follows:
4.5. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article IV, if on the date of a Participant's Separation from Service the Actuarially Equal single lump value of a Participant's Excess Benefit and benefits under all of the Company's nonaccount balance deferred compensation plans (within the meaning of section 409A of the Code and applicable guidance thereunder) is not greater than the applicable dollar limit under section 402(g)(1)(B) of the Code (as adjusted from time to time), the Participant's Excess Benefit and benefits under all of the Company's nonaccount balance deferred compensation plans (within the meaning of section 409A of the Code) may be paid in a single lump sum payment as soon as administratively feasible after the Participant's Separation from Service.
Small Amounts
 
15. ACCELERATED DISTRIBUTIONS. Effective January 1, 2005, Section 4.6 (formerly Section 4.5) of the Plan shall be amended to add the following introductory sentence immediately after the words Accelerated Distributions: "The provisions in Sections 4.5(a) and 4.5(b) below shall apply only with respect to Grandfathered Amounts of Grandfathered Participants."
16. ACCELERATED DISTRIBUTIONS. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 4.6(b) (formerly Section 4.5(b)) of the Plan shall be amended to change the phrase "Section 4.5" to "Section 4.6(a)".
17. DELAY FOR SPECIFIED EMPLOYEES. Effective for payments made to Participants on and after January 1, 2009 (except this section shall not apply to payment of Grandfathered Amounts to Grandfathered Participants), a new Section 4.8 shall be added to the Plan that reads as follows:
4.8. . If a Participant is a Specified Employee as of the date of the Participant's Separation from Service and the Participant is due an Excess Benefit based on the Participant's Separation from Service, payment shall commence the last day of the month following the date that is six (6) months after the date of the Participant's Separation from Service (or, if earlier, the date of the Participant's death). The delay shall not change the calculation of the amount of the payments to be made to the Participant; the amount shall be calculated as if the Participant had commenced without the delay. Payments that would have been made during the six (6)-month delay period shall all be paid to the Participant on the last day of the month following the date that is six (6) months after the date of the Participant's Separation from Service (along with the regular payment that is to be paid on that date). The Participant shall receive interest on the delayed payments that is equal to the rate of interest used to calculate a lump sum benefit under the Plan at the time the delayed payment is made.
Delay for Specified Employees
18. OTHER BENEFITS. Effective for payments made to Participants on and after January 1, 2009, a new Section 5.7 of the Plan shall be added that reads as follows:
5.7. . The benefits under this Article V for Participants who had terminated employment on or before December 31, 2004 and whose benefit was earned and vested as of December 31, 2004 shall be Grandfathered Amounts. As provided in Section 1.7, unless an amendment specifically states that the amendment applies to the benefits and rights of these Grandfathered Participants and Grandfathered Amounts, the amendment shall not apply to these Grandfathered Participants and Grandfathered Amounts.
Grandfathered Amounts and Participants
19. NORMAL FORM OF SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFIT. Effective for payments to Participants that commence benefits on and after January 1, 2009, Section 6.2 of the Plan shall be amended to read as follows:
6.2. .
Normal Form of Benefit
     6.2.1. . For non-Grandfathered Amounts, the first payment to the Participant shall be due on the later of the first day of the month after (i) the Participant's attainment of Normal Retirement Age (the Unreduced Retirement Age) specified in the applicable Appendix B, or (ii) the Participant's Separation from Service. The form of
Non-Grandfathered Amounts
 
payment shall be the normal form of payment specified in the applicable Appendix B (unless an optional form of payment is elected), in an amount calculated as follows:
 
If the applicable Appendix B lists and "Earliest Payout Date," the earliest payout Date shall be disregarded and have no meaning.
     6.2.2. . A Participant who is entitled to a Supplemental Benefit that is a Grandfathered Amount whose employment terminates on or after his or her Normal Retirement Date shall be entitled to a benefit commencing at the Participant's Normal Retirement Date (or, if later, upon the Participant's termination of employment) in the normal form of payment specified in the applicable Appendix B, in an amount calculated as follows:
Grandfathered Amounts  Normal Retirement
     6.2.3. . A Participant who is entitled to a Supplemental Benefit that is a Grandfathered Amount whose employment terminates on or after his or her Early Retirement Date and before his or her Normal Retirement Date shall be entitled to a benefit commencing as soon as administratively feasible after the Participant's termination of employment in the normal form of payment specified in the applicable Appendix B, in an amount calculated as follows:
Grandfathered Amounts  Early Retirement
 
     6.2.4. . A Participant who is entitled to a Supplemental Benefit that is a Grandfathered Amount whose employment terminates before his or her Early Retirement Date shall be entitled to a benefit, commencing as soon as administratively feasible after the Participant's termination of employment, in the normal form of payment specified in the applicable Appendix B, in an amount calculated as follows:
Grandfathered Amounts  Vested Termination Benefits
 
     6.2.5. . Notwithstanding anything in this Article VI to the contrary, with respect to Grandfathered Amounts:
Grandfathered Amounts  Documentation and Assumptions
 
20. OPTIONAL PAYMENT FORMS. Effective for payments to Participants that commence benefits on and after January 1, 2009, a new Section 6.3 (former Section 6.6, moving up due to the consolidation of Sections 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, and 6.5) of the Plan shall be amended to read as follows:
6.3. .
Optional Payment Forms
     6.3.1. . For non-Grandfathered Amounts, in lieu of payment in the normal form described in Section 6.2 above, a Participant may elect to receive his or her Supplemental Benefit in any of the following forms:
Non-Grandfathered Amounts
 
     6.3.2. . For Grandfathered Amounts, in lieu of payment in the normal form described in the applicable Appendix B, a Participant may elect to receive his or her Supplemental Benefit in any of the optional forms of payment described in Section 4.3 of this Plan (subject to any limitations on their availability set forth therein), by making an election in writing on an election form approved by the Committee and filed with the Committee or its designated agent for this purpose not less than twelve (12) full months prior to the Participant's termination of employment. A Participant may change his or her election at any time by filing another election form; provided, however, that any election form that does not satisfy the advance filing requirements of the preceding sentence shall be void and shall be disregarded. An election form shall not be considered filed until the completed form is actually received by the Committee or its designated agent.
Grandfathered Amounts
If a Participant was married at the time that the last optional payment election form was filed by such Participant at least twelve (12) full months prior to the Participant's termination of employment and either (a) the Participant is married to a different spouse on the date the Participant's benefit commences, or (b) if the spouse was named as a joint annuitant on such last optional payment election form and the spouse dies before the date the Participant's benefit commences, then (in either case) the Participant's optional payment election shall be void and have no effect, and the Participant's benefit shall be paid in the normal form described in the applicable Appendix B.
If a Participant elects an optional payment election form that requires the designation of a joint annuitant and such joint annuitant dies prior to the date the Participant's benefit commences, the Participant's optional payment election shall be void and the Participant's benefit shall be paid in the normal form described in the applicable Appendix B.
 
Payment in any available optional form other than a single lump sum cash payment shall be in an amount that is Actuarially Equal to the Supplemental Benefit payable in the normal form of payment specified in the applicable Appendix B. Payment in the form of a single lump sum cash payment shall be in an amount that is Actuarially Equal to the Supplemental Benefit payable in the normal form of payment specified in the applicable Appendix B; provided, however, that if the Participant's Supplemental Benefit was subject to an early retirement reduction, such reduced Supplemental Benefit shall be converted to a benefit as of the earliest time the Participant could have received an unreduced benefit by dividing the reduced Supplemental Benefit by the early reduction factor specified in the applicable Appendix B, and the Participant's single lump sum shall be calculated based on that converted amount.
Payment in any optional form timely elected pursuant to this Section 6.6 shall commence at the same time as the Participant's benefit would have commenced if it had been paid in the normal form of payment unless the Participant specifies a later date in his or her last effective optional payment election form.
Election of an optional form of payment with respect to a Participant's Supplemental Benefit shall not affect payment of the Participant's Excess Benefit, and election of an optional form of payment with respect to a Participant's Excess Benefit shall not affect payment of the Participant's Supplemental Benefit, unless the Participant's last effective optional payment election form expressly provides that it applies to both benefits.
21. DOMESTIC PARTNER. Effective for payments made to Participants on and after January 1, 2009 (except for payment of Grandfathered Amounts to Grandfathered Participants, to which the domestic partner change shall not apply), a new Section 6.4 of the Plan shall be added to the Plan that reads as follows:
6.4. .
Domestic Partner Annuity Rules
     6.4.1. . In addition to the preceding rules, the survivor benefit payable under Section 4.3(c) (50%, 75%, or 100% joint and survivor annuity) to the Participant's Domestic Partner shall consist of the monthly survivor annuity described in Section 6.4.2 below and a single lump sum payment equal to the excess of the Actuarially Equal present value of the portion of the Participant's Supplemental Benefit at the time of the Participant's death that the Domestic Partner was designated to receive over the Actuarially Equal present value at the time of the Participant's death of the monthly survivor annuity described in Section 6.4.2, all determined in accordance with Appendix C of the Qualified Plan; provided, however, that if the portion of the Participant's Supplemental Benefit at the time of the Participant's death that is payable to the Participant's Domestic Partner is less than the value of the monthly survivor annuity described in Section 6.4.2 below, then the Domestic Partner shall be paid only a pro rata portion of such monthly survivor annuity and no lump sum payment.
Domestic Partner
     The first payment of a Domestic Partner's monthly survivor annuity described in Section 6.4.2 below shall be due on the later of the first day of the month after (i) the Participant's attainment of age 62, or (ii) the Participant's Separation from Service. The last payment of this survivor annuity shall be due to the Domestic Partner on the first day of the
 
calendar month in which the Domestic Partner dies. No election, rescission, or other action taken by the Participant shall be effective to modify the survivor annuity hereinbefore described.
     6.4.2. . The amount of monthly survivor annuity payable to the Participant's Domestic Partner shall be:
Domestic Partner's Annuity
22. DELAY FOR SPECIFIED EMPLOYEES. Effective for payments made to Participants on and after January 1, 2009 (except this section shall not apply to payment of Grandfathered Amounts to Grandfathered Participants), a new Section 6.5 shall be added to the Plan that reads as follows:
6.5. . If a Participant is a Specified Employee as of the date of the Participant's Separation from Service and the Participant is due an Supplemental Benefit based on the Participant's Separation from Service, payment shall commence the last day of the month following the date that is six (6) months after the date of the Participant's Separation from Service (or, if earlier, the date of the Participant's death). The delay shall not change the calculation of the amount of the payments to be made to the Participant; the amount shall be calculated as if the Participant had commenced without the delay. Payments that would have been made during the six (6)-month delay period shall all be paid to the Participant on the last
Delay for Specified Employees
 
day of the month following the date that is six (6) months after the date of the Participant's Separation from Service (along with the regular payment that is to be paid on that date). The Participant shall receive interest on the delayed payments that is equal to the rate of interest used to calculate a lump sum benefit under the Plan at the time the delayed payment is made.
23. DEATH BEFORE BENEFIT COMMENCEMENT. Effective for payments made to Participants on and after January 1, 2009, Section 8.1 shall be amended (i) to renumber paragraph (a) as subsection 8.1.1, (ii) to renumber paragraph (b) as subsection 8.1.2, (iii) to add subsection 8.1.3 that reads as follows:
     8.1.3. . For non-Grandfathered Amounts, any survivor benefit payable under subsections 8.1.1 or 8.1.2 of this Section 8.1 to a Beneficiary shall be paid in the form of a single lump sum cash payment equal to that portion of the Actuarially Equal present value of the applicable benefit (Supplemental Benefit or Excess Benefit) at the time of the Participant's death that the Beneficiary was designated to receive. The benefit payment will commence as of the first day of the month following the date that is four (4) months after the date of the Participant's death.
Non-Grandfathered Amounts
and, (iv) to renumber and reorganize existing paragraphs (c) and (d) under a new subsection 8.1.4 as follows:
     8.1.4. .
Grandfathered Amounts
 
24. AMENDMENT. Effective as of July 1, 2008, Section 11.1 of the Plan shall be amended to reads as follows:
11.1. . The Company, by action of its Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, reserves the right at any time and from time to time,
Amendment
 
whether prospectively, retroactively, or both, to terminate, modify or amend, in whole or in part, any or all provisions of the Plan, without notice to any person affected by this Plan. This power includes the right at any time and for any reason deemed sufficient by it to terminate or curtail the benefits of this Plan with regard to persons expecting to receive benefits in the future and/or persons already receiving benefits at the time of such action. No modification of the terms of this Plan shall be effective unless it is adopted or ratified by the Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. No oral representation concerning the interpretation or effect of this Plan shall be effective to amend the Plan. All of the power and authority granted to the Company pursuant to this Section may also be exercised by the Benefits Administration Committee of U.S. Bancorp, except the Benefits Administration Committee may not amend the Plan in a manner that materially increases and decreases the benefit of a senior executive officer of the Company (unless the Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee explicitly delegate this authority to the Benefits Administration Committee).
25. CLAIMS PROCEDURE. Effective for claims filed on and after January 1, 2009, Section 12 of the Plan shall be amended to reads as follows:
12.1. . The Committee and the BAC shall make such determinations as may be required from time to time in the administration of the Plan. The Committee and BAC shall have the discretion, authority and responsibility to interpret and construe this Plan and all relevant documents and information, and to determine all factual and legal questions under the Plan, including, but not limited to, the entitlement of all persons to benefits and the amounts of their benefits. Their discretionary authority shall include all matters arising under the Plan.
Determinations
12.2. . Until modified by the BAC, the claims and review procedure set forth in this Section shall be the mandatory claims and review procedure for the resolution of disputes and disposition of claims filed under the Plan. An application for benefits shall be considered as a claim for the purposes of this Section.
Claims and Review Procedure
     12.2.1. . An individual may, subject to any applicable deadline, file with the BAC to be reviewed by the BAC's designate (employees of the Human Resources Department of the Company unless the BAC appoints a different designate).
Initial Claim
     12.2.2. . A notice of an adverse determination shall be set forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant:
Notice of Initial Adverse Determination
 
     12.2.3. . Within sixty (60) days after receipt of an initial adverse benefit determination notice, the claimant may file with the BAC a written request for a review of the adverse determination and may, in connection therewith submit written comments, documents, records, and other information relating to the claim benefits. Any request for review of the initial adverse determination not filed within sixty (60) days after receipt of the initial adverse determination notice shall be untimely. With respect to a request for review, the BAC may refer a claim to the Committee for review rather than review by the BAC (in such a case references to the BAC in Sections 12.2.3, 12.2.4, and 12.2.5 shall be to the Committee).
Request for Review
     12.2.4. . If the claim, upon review, is denied in whole or in part, the BAC shall notify the claimant of the adverse benefit determination within sixty (60) days after receipt of such a request for review.
Claim on Review
 
     12.2.5. . A notice of an adverse determination for a claim on review shall be set forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant:
Notice of Adverse Determination for Claim on Review
12.3. .
Rules and Regulations
     12.3.1. . Any rule not in conflict or at variance with the provisions hereof may be adopted by the BAC.
Adoption of Rules
     12.3.2. .
Specific Rules
 
12.4. . To be considered timely under the Plan's claims and review procedure, a claim must be filed with the BAC within one (1) year after the claimant knew or reasonably should have known of the principal facts upon which the claim is based.
Deadline to File Claim
12.5. . The exhaustion of the claims and review procedure is mandatory for resolving every claim and dispute arising under the Plan. As to such claims and disputes:
Exhaustion of Administrative Remedies
 
12.6. . No legal action to recover Plan benefits or to enforce or clarify rights under the Plan under section 502 or section 510 of ERISA or under any other provision of law, whether or not statutory, may be brought by any claimant on any matter pertaining to the Plan unless the legal action is commenced in the proper forum before the earlier of: (i) thirty (30) months after the claimant knew or reasonably should have known of the principal facts on which the claim is based (to the extent the claim is based on investment directions, the thirty (30) month period is shortened to nineteen (19) months), or, (ii) six (6) months after the claimant has exhausted the claims and review procedure.
Deadline to File Legal Action
12.7. . Knowledge of all facts that a Participant knew or reasonably should have known shall be imputed to every claimant who is or claims to be a Beneficiary of the Participant or otherwise claims to derive an entitlement by reference to the Participant for the purpose of applying the previously specified periods.
Knowledge of Fact by Participant Imputed to Beneficiary
26. CHOICE OF LAW. Effective for claims filed on and after January 1, 2008, Section 13.8 of the Plan shall be amended to reads as follows:
13.8. . Except to the extent that federal law is controlling, the Plan shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota (except that the state law will be applied without regard to any choice of law provisions). The Participant, the Participant's Beneficiaries, and any other person claiming a benefit shall only have recourse against the Employer.
Choice of Law
27. CHOICE OF VENUE. Effective for claims filed on and after January 1, 2008, Section 13.9 of the Plan shall be amended to reads as follows:
13.9. . Any claim or action brought with respect to this Plan shall be brought in the Federal courts of the State of Minnesota.
Choice of Venue
28. SAVINGS CLAUSE. Save and except as expressly amended above, the Plan shall continue in full force and effect.

Exhibit 10.2(b)
          The U.S. Bank Executive Employee Deferred Compensation Plan (2005 Statement) (the "Plan") is amended in the following respects:
1. PREAMBLE. Effective January 1, 2009, the Preamble is clarified to read as follows:
U.S. Bancorp approved the U.S. Bank Executive Employees Deferred Compensation Plan (2005 Statement) to distinguish elective contributions made by a select group of management or highly compensated employees that are subject to section 409A of the Code. The Plan applies to elective contributions made by eligible employees on and after January 1, 2005, including the deferral of elective contributions on 2004 bonus payments that were paid in 2005.
2. AFFILIATE. Effective January 1, 2009, the second sentence of Section 1.1(1) shall be deleted.
3. BENEFITS ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE. Effective January 1, 2009, a new Section 1.1(4) shall be added to the Plan (with subsequent Sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate) that reads as follows:
          (4) The terms "" and "" shall mean the Benefits Administration Committee of the Company (and its successor or, if no such committee exists, the Executive Vice President, Human Resources of the Company).
Benefits Administration Committee
BAC
4. BENEFIT COMMENCEMENT DATE. Effective for participants whose benefits commence on or after January 1, 2009, Section 1.1(5) (prior to this amendment Section 1.1(4)) shall be deleted (with subsequent Sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate).
5. CHANGE IN CONTROL. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 1.1(6) (prior to this amendment Section 1.1(7)) shall be deleted (with subsequent Sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate).
6. CODE. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 1.1(6) (prior to this amendment Section 1.1(8)) shall be amended to read as follows:
          (6) The term shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, including applicable regulations for the specified section of the Code. Any reference in this Plan to a section of the Code, including the applicable regulation, shall be considered also to mean and refer to any subsequent amendment or replacement of that section or regulation.
"Code"
7. DISABILITY. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 1.1(14) (prior to this amendment Section 1.1(15)) shall be deleted (with subsequent Sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate).
 
8. ERISA. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 1.1(19) (prior to this amendment Section 1.1(21)) shall be amended to read in full as follows:
          (19) The term shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, including applicable regulations for the specified section of ERISA. Any reference in this Plan to a section of ERISA, including the applicable regulation, shall be considered also to mean and refer to any subsequent amendment or replacement of that section or regulation.
"ERISA"
9. FINANCIAL HARDSHIP. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 1.1(20) prior to this amendment Section 1.1(22)) shall be deleted (with subsequent Sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate).
10. KEY EMPLOYEE. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 1.1(20) (prior to this amendment Section 1.1(23), the definition of Key Employee) shall be deleted (with subsequent Sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate  the definition is being replaced by the phrase "Specified Employee"). In addition, the phrase "Key Employee" in the Plan shall be replaced by the phrase "Specified Employee".
11. PLAN. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 1.1(21) (prior to this amendment Section 1.1(25)) shall be amended to read in full as follows (and all other references to the name of the Plan revised as appropriate, including the cover page):
          (21) The term shall mean the U.S. Bank Executive Employees Deferred Compensation Plan (2005 Statement).
"Plan"
12. RETIREMENT. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 1.1(24) prior to this amendment Section 1.1(27)) shall be deleted (with subsequent Sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate  the terms "Retirement", "Retire(s)" and "Retired" shall be replaced with the phrase "Separation from Service" unless such replacement shall lead to repetition of the phrase "Separation from Service" in which case the second "Separation from Service" shall be deleted).
13. SEPARATION FROM SERVICE (previously "Termination of Employment"). Effective January 1, 2009, a new Section 1.1(24) shall be added that reads in full as follows (with subsequent Sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate  the phrase "Termination of Employment" is being replaced by the phrase "Separation from Service"):
          (24) The term "" shall mean a Participant's separation from service as defined under Code Section 409A. For purposes of a Separation from Service, an affiliate shall mean a business entity which is not the Company but which is part of a "controlled group" or under "common control" with the Company, as those terms are defined in section 414(b) and (c) of the Code as required to be aggregated with the Company under section 409A based on eighty percent (80%) or greater control.
Separation from Service
 
14. SPECIFIED EMPLOYEE (previously "Key Employee"). Effective for participants who are specified employees as of January 1, 2009, a new Section 1.1(26) shall be added to the Plan ((with subsequent Sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate  the phrase "Key Employee" is being replaced by the phrase "Specified Employee") that reads in full as follows:
          (26) The term shall mean a Participant who is a specified employee for purposes of Code Section 409A as defined in the separate document entitled "U.S. Bank Specified Employee Determination."
"Specified Employee"
15. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 1.1(27) (prior to this amendment Section 1.1(30), the definition of Termination of Employment) shall be deleted (with subsequent Sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate  the definition is being replaced by the phrase "Separation from Service"). In addition, the phrase "Termination of Employment" in the Plan shall be replaced by the phrase "Separation from Service".
16. UNFORESEEABLE EMERGENCY. Effective for distributions on and after January 1, 2009, a new Section 1.1(27) shall be added to the Plan ((with subsequent Sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate) that reads in full as follows:
     (27) The term shall mean an unforeseeable emergency as defined under Code Section 409A.
"Unforeseeable Emergency"
17. CESSATION OF ACTIVE PARTICIPATION. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 2.2 shall be amended to read in full as follows:
          Deferrals from a Participant's Base Pay shall cease as of the earlier of (i) the last day of the Plan Year for which a Participant has entered into a Deferred Compensation Agreement, (ii) the date the Participant dies, and (iii) the last day of the Plan Year in which the BAC or the Executive Vice President of Human Resources determines the Participant may no longer defer compensation under the Plan. Deferrals from a Participant's Bonus shall cease as of the earlier of (i) the date of the bonus payment for the last year in which the Participant entered into a Deferred Compensation Agreement for the Participant's Bonus, or (ii) the date the Participant dies. Nothing in this Plan shall prevent the BAC or the Executive Vice President of Human Resources from determining a Participant is no longer a member of a select group of management and highly compensated employees.
2.2
Cessation of Active Participation
.
18. EFFECTIVE DATE OF DEFERRED COMPENSATION AGREEMENT. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 3.2 shall be amended to read in full as follows:
 
          A Deferred Compensation Agreement shall be effective upon receipt (as determined by the BAC) and shall be irrevocable as of the December 31 prior to the Plan Year to which the Deferred Compensation Agreement applies. In the case of a Selected Employee who enters into a Deferred Compensation Agreement as provided under Section 3.1(b), it shall be irrevocable as of the earlier of (i) the last day of the thirty (30) day period, and (ii) the date deferrals commence with respect to the Selected Employee.
3.2
Effective Date of Deferred Compensation Agreement
.
19. DISTRIBUTION RULES (previously Method of Payment). Effective January 1, 2009, Section 5.2 shall be amended to read in full as follows (this Section takes the place of Section 5.5 prior to the amendment and, therefore, cross references to Section 5.5 shall be changed to Section 5.2):
          The Participant shall make a distribution election with respect to Participant's deferred compensation for each Plan Year. The Participant may elect to receive distribution of a Participant's deferred compensation for a Plan Year in (i) a single lump sum, or (ii) installments paid over five (5)-year, ten (10)-year, fifteen (15)-year, or twenty (20)-year period. The distribution election shall be effective upon receipt (as determined by the BAC) and shall be irrevocable as of the December 31 prior to the Plan Year to which the distribution election applies. In the case of a Participant who enters into a Deferred Compensation Agreement as provided under Section 3.1(b), the distribution election shall be irrevocable as of the earlier of (i) the last day of the thirty (30) day period, and (ii) the date deferrals commence with respect to the Participant.
5.2
Distribution Rules
.
     (a) . If a Participant has a Separation, the Participant's benefit will be paid according to the Participant's distribution elections. If the Participant has elected a single lump sum for a Plan Year, the Participant's deferred compensation for that Plan Year (as adjusted for earnings or losses) shall be paid on the date that is thirty (30) days after the Participant's Separation from Service. If the Participant has elected installments over a period of years for a Plan Year, the first installment of the Participant's deferred compensation for that Plan Year shall be paid on the date that is thirty (30) days after the Participant's Separation from Service, and each subsequent installment shall be paid on the anniversary of the first payment to the Participant (unless the Participant's first payment is delayed under Section 5.2(d), in which case each subsequent payment will be made on the anniversary of the date of the Participant's Separation from Service). Installment amounts shall be determined by taking the amount of the Participant's deferred compensation for a Plan Year (as adjusted for earnings and losses) and dividing it by the number of remaining installment distributions.
Distribution Upon Separation from Service
     (b) . If a Participant fails to make a distribution election for a Plan Year, the Participant's deferred compensation for the Plan Year shall be paid in a single lump sum on the date that is thirty (30) days after the Participant's Separation from Service.
Default Election
     (c) . If a Participant dies prior to the payment of the Participant's entire benefit under the Plan, the Participant's entire Deferred Compensation Account shall be paid to the Participant's beneficiary in a single lump sum. The distribution will be paid as of the last day
Death
 
of the month following the date that is four (4) months after the date of the Participant's death.
     (d) . If a Participant is a Specified Employee as of the date of the Participant's Separation from Service and the Participant, payment shall commence the last day of the month following the date that is six (6) months after the date of the Participant's Separation from Service (or, if earlier, the date of the Participant's death). During the delay, the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account Balance shall continue to be invested in the measurement funds.
Delay in Distribution to a Specified Employee
     (e) . The portion of a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account that reflects a deemed investment in the Company stock fund shall (unless otherwise determined by the Committee) be distributed in Shares, except that any deemed fractional Shares shall be paid in cash.
Distribution of Shares
20. DISTRIBUTION UPON UNFORESEEABLE EMERGENCY (previously Hardship Distributions). Effective January 1, 2009, Section 5.5 shall be amended to read in full as follows (this Section takes the place of Section 5.2 prior to the amendment and, therefore, cross references to Section 5.2 shall be changed to Section 5.5):
          A Participant may request a distribution due to an Unforeseeable Emergency. To request such a distribution, the Participant must submit a request and supporting information to the BAC. If the Participant's request is approved, either as an initial request or by the Committee on appeal, the amount necessary to satisfy the Unforeseeable Emergency (including the amount necessary to satisfy federal, state, and local income taxes on the amount) shall be paid in a single lump sum on the date that is thirty (30) days after the date of the determination the Participant has experienced an Unforeseeable Emergency. The amount necessary to make the payment shall be deducted from the Participant's oldest deferred compensation amounts contributed to the Plan (and any earnings on such contributions), starting with the first year the Participant participated in the Plan and moving forward through each subsequent year until a sufficient amount is deducted to pay the amount of the distribution due to an Unforeseeable Emergency.
5.5
Distribution Upon Unforeseeable Emergency
.
21. DISTRIBUTION OF SMALL AMOUNTS (previously Distribution on Plan Termination). Effective for payments made on and after January 1, 2009, Section 5.8 shall be amended to read in full as follows:
          Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article V, if on the date of a Participant's benefit under the Plan and under all of the Company's elective account balance deferred compensation plans (within the meaning of Code Section 409A and applicable guidance thereunder) is not greater than the applicable dollar limit under Code Section 402(g)(1)(B) (as adjusted from time to time), the Participant's benefit and benefits under all of the Company's elective account balance deferred compensation plans (within the meaning of Code Section 409A) may be paid in a single lump sum payment as soon as administratively feasible after the Participant's Separation from Service.
5.8
Distribution of Small Amounts
.
 
22. CLAIMS PROCEDURES. Effective for claims made on and after January 1, 2009, Section 8.6 shall be amended to read in full as follows:
          Benefits under the Plan are subject to the Claim Procedures contained in Section 12 (including Sections 12.1 through 12.7) of the U.S. Bank Non-Qualified Retirement Plan, as the same may be amended from time to time.
8.6
Claim Procedures
.
23. AMENDMENT (previously "In General"). Effective January 1, 2009, Section 9.1 shall be amended to read in full as follows:
          The Company, by action of its Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, reserves the right at any time and from time to time, whether prospectively, retroactively, or both, to terminate, modify or amend, in whole or in part, any or all provisions of the Plan, without notice to any person affected by this Plan. This power includes the right at any time and for any reason deemed sufficient by it to terminate or curtail the benefits of this Plan with regard to persons expecting to receive benefits in the future and/or persons already receiving benefits at the time of such action. No modification of the terms of this Plan shall be effective unless it is adopted or ratified by the Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. No oral representation concerning the interpretation or effect of this Plan shall be effective to amend the Plan. All of the power and authority granted to the Company pursuant to this Section may also be exercised by the BAC, except the BAC may not amend the Plan in a manner that materially increases and decreases the benefit of a senior executive officer of the Company (unless the Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee explicitly delegate this authority to the BAC).
9.1
Amendment
.
24. TERMINATION (previously "Termination After a Change in Control"). Effective January 1, 2009, Section 9.2 shall be amended to read in full as follows:
          . The Company, by action of its Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, reserves the right at any time to terminate the Plan. If the plan is terminated, the plan termination shall comply with Code Section 409A. A plan termination may result in a change in the time and form of distribution under the Plan, but no termination shall reduce the benefits accrued prior to the date of the termination.
9.2
Termination
25. INFORMATION. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 10.1 shall be amended to add "the" before the first occurrence of "Committee" in the final sentence.
26. ERISA. Effective January 1, 2009, a new Section 10.8 shall be added that reads in full as follows:
          The Plan is maintained with the understanding that the Plan is an unfunded plan maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees as provided in sections 201(2), 301(3) and 401(a)(1) of ERISA, and section 2520.104-23 of the regulations under ERISA. Each provision shall be interpreted and administered accordingly.
10.8
ERISA Status
.
27. INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. Effective January 1, 2009, a new Section 10.9 shall be added that reads in full as follows:
 
          The Plan is maintained as a nonqualified deferred compensation arrangement under Code Section 409A. Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither the Employer nor any of its officers, directors, agents or Affiliates shall be obligated, directly or indirectly, to any Participant or any other person for any taxes, penalties, interest or like amounts that may be imposed on the Participant or other person on account of any amounts under this Plan or on account of any failure to comply with the Code.
10.9
Internal Revenue Code Status
.
28. CHOICE OF LAW. Effective for claims filed on and after January 1, 2009, a new Section 10.10 shall be added that reads in full as follows:
          Except to the extent that federal law is controlling, the Plan shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota (except that the state law will be applied without regard to any choice of law provisions). The Participant, the Participant's Beneficiaries, and any other person claiming a benefit shall only have recourse against the Employer.
10.10
Choice of Law
.
29. CHOICE OF VENUE. Effective for claims filed on and after January 1, 2009, a new Section 10.11 shall be added that reads in full as follows:
          Any claim or action brought with respect to this Plan shall be brought in the Federal courts of the State of Minnesota.
10.11
Choice of Venue
.
30. APPENDIX A (List of Affiliates). Effective as of January 1, 2009, Appendix A is replaced in its entirety with the attached Appendix A.
31. APPENDIX B (Measurement Funds). Effective as of January 1, 2009, Appendix B is replaced in its entirety with the attached Appendix B.
32. SAVINGS CLAUSE. Save and except as expressly amended above, the Plan shall continue in full force and effect.
 
U.S. Bank National Association U.S. Bancorp Asset Management, Inc. U.S. Bancorp Card Services, Inc. U.S. Bancorp Fund Services, LLC U.S. Bancorp Insurance Services, LLC U.S. Bancorp Investments, Inc. U.S. Bancorp Equipment Finance, Inc. U.S. Bancorp Licensing, Inc. U.S. Bank National Association, ND U.S. Bank Oliver-Allen Technology Leasing Housing Capital Company First Security Investor Reporting, LP Genpass Service Solutions, LLC Genpass Technologies, LLC LADCO Financial Group Lyon Financial Services, Inc. NOVA Information Systems, Inc. Quasar Distributors, LLC
 
First American Mutual Funds:
Short Term Bond Fund Intermediate Government Bond Fund Core Bond Fund Strategy Growth and Income Allocation Mid Cap Growth Opportunities Fund Mid Cap Value Fund Equity Index Fund Large Cap Value Fund Large Cap Growth Opportunities Fund Small Cap Value Fund Small Cap Growth Opportunities Fund Prime Obligations Fund
U.S. Bancorp common stock

Exhibit 10.3(b)
          The U.S. Bank Outside Directors Deferred Compensation Plan (2005 Statement) (the "Plan") is amended in the following respects:
1. PREAMBLE. Effective January 1, 2009, the Preamble is clarified to read as follows:
U.S. Bancorp approved the U.S. Bank Outside Directors Deferred Compensation Plan (2005 Statement) to distinguish elective contributions made by outside directors that are subject to section 409A of the Code. The Plan applies to elective contributions made by outside directors on and after January 1, 2005.
2. AFFILIATE. Effective January 1, 2009, the second sentence of Section 1.1(1) shall be deleted.
3. AFFILIATED GROUP. Effective January 1, 2009, Section  1.1(2) shall be deleted (with subsequent Sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate  the phrase "Affiliated Group" is being replaced by the phrase "Employer"). In addition, the term "Employer" shall replace the term "Affiliated Group" throughout the Plan.
4. BENEFIT COMMENCEMENT DATE. Effective for participants whose benefits commence on or after January 1, 2009, Section 1.1(4) shall be deleted (with subsequent Sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate).
5. BENEFITS ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE. Effective January 1, 2009, a new Section 1.1(3) shall be added to the Plan (with subsequent Sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate) that reads as follows:
          (3) The terms "" and "" shall mean the Benefits Administration Committee of the Company (and its successor or, if no such committee exists, the Executive Vice President, Human Resources of the Company).
Benefits Administration Committee
BAC
6. CHANGE IN CONTROL. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 1.1(5) (prior to this amendment Section 1.1((6)) shall be deleted (with subsequent Sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate).
7. CODE. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 1.1(5) (prior to this amendment Section 1.1(7)) shall be amended to read in full as follows:
          (7) The term shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, including applicable regulations for the specified section of the Code. Any reference in this Plan to a section of the Code, including the applicable regulation, shall be considered also to mean and refer to any subsequent amendment or replacement of that section or regulation.
"Code"
 
8. DIRECTOR. With respect to Section 1.1(12) (Director), for purposes of clarity, where the term Director in Articles II, III, and IV, and in Sections 10.2 and 10.7, the term "Director" shall include a grandfathered Advisory Director. The term "Director" in Articles VIII and IX, and in Section 1.1(3) (the definition of "Board" and "Board of Directors") shall not include grandfathered Advisory Directors.
9. DISABILITY. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 1.1(14) (prior to this amendment Section 1.1(16)) shall be deleted (with subsequent Sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate).
10. EMPLOYER. Effective for distributions on and after January 1, 2009, a new Section 1.1(17) shall be added to the Plan ((with subsequent Sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate  the phrase "Affiliated Group" is being replaced by the phrase "Employer") that reads in full as follows:
          (17) The term shall mean the Company and any of its Affiliates that are described in Appendix A and that have adopted the Plan as a participating employer.
"Employer"
11. FINANCIAL HARDSHIP. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 1.1(17) prior to this amendment Section 1.1(20)) shall be deleted (with subsequent Sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate).
12. PARTICIPANT. With respect to Section 1.1(18) (Participant), for purposes of clarity, the term "Participant" shall also include Advisory Directors who were making elective contributions as of January 1, 2005 and who have continuously elected to make elective contributions after that date (referred to as "grandfathered Advisory Directors"). Advisory Directors appointed on and after January 1, 2005 shall not be eligible to make elective contributions under the Plan. Once a grandfathered Advisory Directors ceases making elective contributions, that grandfathered Advisory Director shall no longer be able to make elective contributions. Grandfathered Advisory Directors shall be subject to all of the rules under the Plan.
13. PLAN. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 1.1(19) (prior to this amendment section 1.1(22)) shall be amended to read in full as follows (and all other references to the name of the Plan revised as appropriate, including the cover page):
          (19) The term shall mean the U.S. Bank Executive Employees Deferred Compensation Plan (2005 Statement).
"Plan"
14. RETIREMENT. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 1.1(20) prior to this amendment Section 1.1(24)) shall be deleted (with subsequent Sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate  the terms "Retirement", "Retire(s)" and "Retired" shall be replaced with the phrase "Separation from Service" unless such replacement shall lead to repetition of the phrase "Separation from Service" in which case the second "Separation from Service" shall be deleted).
15. SEPARATION FROM SERVICE (previously "Termination of Employment"). Effective January 1, 2009, a new Section 1.1(21) shall be added that reads in full as follows
 
(with subsequent Sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate  the phrase "Termination of Employment" is being replaced by the phrase "Separation from Service"):
          (21) The term "" shall mean a Participant's separation from service as defined under Code Section 409A. For purposes of a Separation from Service, an affiliate shall mean a business entity which is not the Company but which is part of a "controlled group" or under "common control" with the Company, as those terms are defined in section 414(b) and (c) of the Code as required to be aggregated with the Company under section 409A based on eighty percent (80%) or greater control.
Separation from Service
16. TERMINATION OF SERVICES. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 1.1(22) (prior to this amendment Section 1.1(26), the definition of Termination of Services) shall be deleted (with subsequent Sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate  the definition is being replaced by the phrase "Separation from Service"). In addition, the phrase "Termination of Services" in the Plan shall be replaced by the phrase "Separation from Service".
17. UNFORESEEABLE EMERGENCY. Effective for distributions on and after January 1, 2009, a new Section 1.1(22) shall be added to the Plan ((with subsequent Sections and cross references renumbered as appropriate) that reads in full as follows:
          (22) The term shall mean an unforeseeable emergency as defined under Code Section 409A.
"Unforeseeable Emergency"
18. SECTION 2 HEADING. Effective January 1, 2009, the heading for Section 2 shall be revised to read "Participation".
19. PARTICIPATION. With respect to Section 2.1 (Participation), for purposes of clarity, in addition to Directors participation in the Plan shall include grandfathered Advisory Directors, who are described above under the definition of Participant.
20. CESSATION OF ACTIVE PARTICIPATION. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 2.2 shall be amended to read in full as follows:
          Deferrals from a Participant shall cease as of the earlier of (i) the last day of the Plan Year for which a Participant has entered into a Deferred Compensation Agreement, (ii) the date the Participant dies, and (iii) the last day of the Plan Year in which the Participant has a Separation from Service.
2.2
Cessation of Active Participation
.
21. EFFECTIVE DATE OF DEFERRED COMPENSATION AGREEMENT. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 3.2 shall be amended to read in full as follows:
          A Deferred Compensation Agreement shall be effective upon receipt (as determined by the Committee) and shall be irrevocable as of the December 31 prior to the Plan Year to which the Deferred Compensation Agreement applies. In the case of a Director who enters into a Deferred Compensation Agreement as provided under Section 3.1(b), it shall be irrevocable as of the earlier of (i) the last
3.2
Effective Date of Deferred Compensation Agreement
.
 
day of the thirty (30) day period, and (ii) the date deferrals commence with respect to the Director.
22. DISTRIBUTION RULES (previously Method of Payment). Effective January 1, 2009, Section 5.2 shall be amended to read in full as follows (this Section takes the place of Section 5.5 prior to the amendment and, therefore, cross references to Section 5.5 shall be changed to Section 5.2):
          The Participant shall make a distribution election with respect to Participant's deferred compensation for each Plan Year. The Participant may elect to receive distribution of a Participant's deferred compensation for a Plan Year in (i) a single lump sum, or (ii) installments paid over five (5)-year, ten (10)-year, fifteen (15)-year, or twenty (20)-year period. The distribution election shall be effective upon receipt (as determined by the BAC) and shall be irrevocable as of the December 31 prior to the Plan Year to which the distribution election applies. In the case of a Participant who enters into a Deferred Compensation Agreement as provided under Section 3.1(b), the distribution election shall be irrevocable as of the earlier of (i) the last day of the thirty (30) day period, and (ii) the date deferrals commence with respect to the Participant.
5.2
Distribution Rules
.
     (a) . If a Participant has a Separation, the Participant's benefit will be paid according to the Participant's distribution elections. If the Participant has elected a single lump sum for a Plan Year, the Participant's deferred compensation for that Plan Year (as adjusted for earnings or losses) shall be paid on the date that is thirty (30) days after the Participant's Separation from Service. If the Participant has elected installments over a period of years for a Plan Year, the first installment of the Participant's deferred compensation for that Plan Year shall be paid on the date that is thirty (30) days after the Participant's Separation from Service, and each subsequent installment shall be paid on the anniversary of the first payment to the Participant. Installment amounts shall be determined by taking the amount of the Participant's deferred compensation for a Plan Year (as adjusted for earnings and losses) and dividing it by the number of remaining installment distributions.
Distribution Upon Separation from Service
     (b) . If a Participant fails to make a distribution election for a Plan Year, the Participant's deferred compensation for the Plan Year shall be paid in a single lump sum on the date that is thirty (30) days after the Participant's Separation from Service.
Default Election
     (c) . If a Participant dies prior to the payment of the Participant's entire benefit under the Plan, the Participant's entire Deferred Compensation Account shall be paid to the Participant's beneficiary in a single lump sum. The distribution will be paid as of the last day of the month following the date that is four (4) months after the date of the Participant's death.
Death
     (d) . The portion of a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account that reflects a deemed investment in the Company stock fund shall (unless otherwise determined by the Committee) be distributed in Shares, except that any deemed fractional Shares shall be paid in cash.
Distribution of Shares
 
23. COURT ORDERED DISTRIBUTIONS. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 5.4 shall be amended to change "who" to read "whose Deferred Compensation Account".
24. DISTRIBUTION UPON UNFORESEEABLE EMERGENCY (previously Hardship Distributions). Effective January 1, 2009, Section 5.5 shall be amended to read in full as follows (this Section takes the place of Section 5.2 prior to the amendment and, therefore, cross references to Section 5.2 shall be changed to Section 5.5):
          A Participant may request a distribution due to an Unforeseeable Emergency. To request such a distribution, the Participant must submit a request and supporting information to the BAC. If the Participant's request is approved, either as an initial request or by the Committee on appeal, the amount necessary to satisfy the Unforeseeable Emergency (including the amount necessary to satisfy federal, state, and local income taxes on the amount) shall be paid in a single lump sum on the date that is thirty (30) days after the date of the determination the Participant has experienced an Unforeseeable Emergency. The amount necessary to make the payment shall be deducted from the Participant's oldest deferred compensation amounts contributed to the Plan (and any earnings on such contributions), starting with the first year the Participant participated in the Plan and moving forward through each subsequent year until a sufficient amount is deducted to pay the amount of the distribution due to an Unforeseeable Emergency.
5.5
Distribution Upon Unforeseeable Emergency
.
25. DISTRIBUTION OF SMALL AMOUNTS (previously Distribution on Plan Termination). Effective for payments made on and after January 1, 2009, Section 5.7 shall be amended to read in full as follows:
          Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article V, if on the date of a Participant's benefit under the Plan and under all of the Company's elective account balance deferred compensation plans (within the meaning of Code Section 409A and applicable guidance thereunder) is not greater than the applicable dollar limit under Code Section 402(g)(1)(B) (as adjusted from time to time), the Participant's benefit and benefits under all of the Company's elective account balance deferred compensation plans (within the meaning of Code Section 409A) may be paid in a single lump sum payment as soon as administratively feasible after the Participant's Separation from Service.
5.7
Distribution of Small Amounts
.
26. RIGHT TO WITHHOLD TAXES. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 5.9 shall be amended (i) so that the term "distribution" is changed to "distribution or payment", and (ii) the term "federal" is changed to "Federal".
27. PLAN UNFUNDED. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 7.1 shall be amended to add "from" before "one or more grantor trusts" in the third sentence.
28. AMENDMENT (previously "In General"). Effective January 1, 2009, Section 9.1 shall be amended to read in full as follows:
          The Company, by action of its Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, reserves the right at any time and from time to time, whether prospectively, retroactively, or both, to terminate, modify or amend, in whole or in part, any or all provisions of the Plan, without notice to any person affected by this Plan. This
9.1
Amendment
.
 
power includes the right at any time and for any reason deemed sufficient by it to terminate or curtail the benefits of this Plan with regard to persons expecting to receive benefits in the future and/or persons already receiving benefits at the time of such action. No modification of the terms of this Plan shall be effective unless it is adopted or ratified by the Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. No oral representation concerning the interpretation or effect of this Plan shall be effective to amend the Plan. All of the power and authority granted to the Company pursuant to this Section may also be exercised by the BAC, except the BAC may not amend the Plan in a manner that materially increases and decreases the benefit of a senior executive officer of the Company (unless the Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee explicitly delegate this authority to the BAC).
29. TERMINATION (previously "Termination After a Change in Control"). Effective January 1, 2009, Section 9.2 shall be amended to read in full as follows:
          . The Company, by action of its Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, reserves the right at any time to terminate the Plan. If the plan is terminated, the plan termination shall comply with Code Section 409A. A plan termination may result in a change in the time and form of distribution under the Plan, but no termination shall reduce the benefits accrued prior to the date of the termination.
9.2
Termination
30. INFORMATION. Effective January 1, 2009, Section 10.1 shall be amended (i) to delete "post office" before "address" in the first sentence, and (ii) to add "(or its designee)" after "Committee" in the second sentence.
31. ERISA. Effective January 1, 2009, a new Section 10.8 shall be added that reads in full as follows:
          The Plan is maintained for non-Employee Directors and, therefore, is not subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
10.8
ERISA Status
.
32. INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. Effective January 1, 2009, a new Section 10.9 shall be added that reads in full as follows:
          The Plan is maintained as a nonqualified deferred compensation arrangement under Code Section 409A. Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither the Employer nor any of its officers, directors, agents or Affiliates shall be obligated, directly or indirectly, to any Participant or any other person for any taxes, penalties, interest or like amounts that may be imposed on the Participant or other person on account of any amounts under this Plan or on account of any failure to comply with the Code.
10.9
Internal Revenue Code Status
.
33. CHOICE OF LAW. Effective for claims filed on and after January 1, 2009, a new Section 10.10 shall be added that reads in full as follows:
          Except to the extent that federal law is controlling, the Plan shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota (except that the state law will be applied without regard to any choice of law provisions). The Participant, the Participant's Beneficiaries, and any other person claiming a benefit shall only have recourse against the Employer.
10.10
Choice of Law
.
 
34. CHOICE OF VENUE. Effective for claims filed on and after January 1, 2009, a new Section 10.11 shall be added that reads in full as follows:
          Any claim or action brought with respect to this Plan shall be brought in the Federal courts of the State of Minnesota.
10.11
Choice of Venue
.
35. APPENDIX A (List of Affiliates). Effective as of January 1, 2009, Appendix A is replaced in its entirety with the attached Appendix A.
36. APPENDIX B (Measurement Funds). Effective as of January 1, 2009, Appendix B is replaced in its entirety with the attached Appendix B.
37. SAVINGS CLAUSE. Save and except as expressly amended above, the Plan shall continue in full force and effect.
 
U.S. Bank National Association U.S. Bancorp Asset Management, Inc. U.S. Bancorp Card Services, Inc. U.S. Bancorp Fund Services, LLC U.S. Bancorp Insurance Services, LLC U.S. Bancorp Investments, Inc. U.S. Bancorp Equipment Finance, Inc. U.S. Bancorp Licensing, Inc. U.S. Bank National Association, ND U.S. Bank Oliver-Allen Technology Leasing Housing Capital Company First Security Investor Reporting, LP Genpass Service Solutions, LLC Genpass Technologies, LLC LADCO Financial Group Lyon Financial Services, Inc. NOVA Information Systems, Inc. Quasar Distributors, LLC
 
First American Mutual Funds:
Short Term Bond Fund Intermediate Government Bond Fund Core Bond Fund Strategy Growth and Income Allocation Mid Cap Growth Opportunities Fund Mid Cap Value Fund Equity Index Fund Large Cap Value Fund Large Cap Growth Opportunities Fund Small Cap Value Fund Small Cap Growth Opportunities Fund Prime Obligations Fund
U.S. Bancorp common stock

Exhibit 10.4(b)
     The U.S. Bancorp 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") is amended in the following respects:
1. SPECIFIED EMPLOYEE. Effective for determinations of who is a specified employee on and after January 1, 2009, Section 2(dd) shall be amended to read as follows:
     (dd) "Specified Employee" shall mean an employee who is a specified employee for purposes of Code Section 409A as defined in the separate document entitled "U.S. Bank Specified Employee Determination."
2. SAVINGS CLAUSE. Save and except as expressly amended above, the Plan shall continue in full force and effect.

Exhibit 10.5(b)
THIS AMENDMENT ("Amendment") is adopted for the purpose of bringing outstanding Restricted Stock Unit Agreements issued under the 2001 U.S. Bancorp Stock Incentive Plan into documentary compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").
("Director") has been awarded one or more grants of Restricted Stock Units under the U.S. Bancorp 2001 Stock Incentive Plan ("2001 SIP"); and
WHEREAS,
                    
                    
the Company wishes to amend all prior Restricted Stock Unit Agreements with respect to outstanding Restricted Stock Unit awards under the 2001 SIP in order to comply with Code Section 409A:
WHEREAS,
1. This Amendment is intended to, and shall be effective to, amend all Restricted Stock Unit Agreements between the Company and Director that were authorized and entered into pursuant to the U.S. Bancorp 2001 SIP ("2001 Plan RSU Agreements").
2. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the 2001 Plan RSU Agreements, the following rules and definitions will apply:
     (a) "Change in Control" shall mean the occurrence of a "change in the ownership" of the Company, a "change in the effective control" of the Company, and/or a "change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets" of the Company, each as defined under Section 1.409A-3(i)(5) of the U.S. Treasury Regulations.
Definition of Change in Control.
     (b) Prior to this Agreement, the 2001 Plan RSU Agreements provided that on the date that a Participant (Director) "no longer serves on the Board of the Company" ("Distribution Date"), Shares will be distributed to Director in settlement of vested RSUs. As amended by this Agreement, Distribution Date shall mean the date on which Director experiences a Separation from Service. Separation from Service means the first date on which Participant (i) has ceased to serve on the Board of the Company, and (ii) is not providing services as an independent contractor to the Company or to any other entity with which the Company would be considered to be a single employer under Section 414(b) and/or 414(c) of the Internal Revenue Code and the Company does not reasonably anticipate that Participant will provide such services in the future.
Issuance of Shares; Separation from Service.
     (c) . If Director is a Specified Employee at the time a distribution of Shares otherwise would occur as a result of Director's Separation from Service, Shares will not be distributed to Participant until the date that is six months and one day after the date of the Separation from Service. Specified Employee is defined as a Participant who is a specified employee for purposes of section 1.409A-1(i) of the U.S. Treasury Regulations and determined pursuant to the rules and procedures set forth in the separate document entitled "U.S. Bank Specified Employee Determination."
Specified Employee
     (d) . The 2001 Plan RSU Agreements provide that to the extent that cash dividends are paid on Shares after the Award Date and prior to the Distribution
Dividend Equivalents
 
Date, the Participant (Director) shall be entitled to receive additional RSUs on each dividend payment date having a fair market value equal to the amount of dividends paid on Shares represented by the RSUs. These "dividend equivalent RSUs" will be settled, and Shares will be distributed, at the same time as Shares are distributed with respect to the underlying RSUs giving rise to such dividend equivalent RSUs.
     (e) . It is intended that the Plan and this Agreement shall be interpreted in accordance with Section 409A of the Code and Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretive guidance issued thereunder and the provisions of this Agreement shall be construed and administered accordingly.
Intent to Comply with Code section 409A

Exhibit 10.6(b)
By their signatures below, U.S. Bancorp (the "Company") and the undersigned executive ("Executive') hereby amend the Executive Severance Agreement between the Company and Executive, dated
                    
                    
("Executive Severance Agreement"). The purpose of this amendment ("Amendment") is to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). Capitalized words not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Executive Severance Agreement.
Executive and the Company have entered into the Executive Severance Agreement which provides for the lump sum payment to Executive of Termination Benefits, within thirty (30) days of termination, if, within twenty-four (24) months following a Change in Control, Executive's employment is terminated by the Company (other than for reasons of Cause or Disability) or by Executive for Good Reason; and
WHEREAS,
, the Company and Executive wish to amend such Executive Severance Agreement to comply with Section 409A of the Code:
WHEREAS
, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained in this Agreement, the Company and Executive agree that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Executive Severance Agreement, the following rules and definitions will apply:
NOW, THEREFORE
The definition of Good Reason contained in the Executive Severance Agreement is replaced with the following definition. Good Reason shall mean any one of the conditions set forth below, provided that Executive must provide notice to the Company within ninety (90) days of the existence of such condition and the Company will have thirty (30) days from receipt of such notice to remedy the condition. If the condition is not remedied within such 30 day period, the following conditions will constitute "Good Reason":
1. Definition of Good Reason.
(a) A material reduction by the Company in the Executive's base salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control or as the same may be increased from time-to-time following the Change in Control (unless such reduction is part of an across-the-board uniformly applied reduction affecting all senior executives of the Company); or
(b) A significant diminution in the Executive's position, authority, duties or responsibilities as in effect immediately prior to the Change of Control (excluding an isolated, insubstantial or inadvertent action not taken in bad faith that is remedied promptly by the Company after receiving notice); provided, however, that a change of the individual to whom the executive reports, in and of itself, would not constitute diminution; and further provided, anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, if the Company's Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") immediately prior to the Change in Control remains CEO of the Company during the Protected Period following the Change in Control, and if 50% or more of the Company's Board of Directors during the Protected Period following the Change in Control were members of the Board of Directors immediately prior to the Change in Control, the Executive shall
Group A with GU
 
not be able to terminate employment for Good Reason based solely on the events described under this Section (b) until at least one (1) year following the Change in Control (although at such time a termination of employment by the Executive for Good Reason under this Section (b) may be based on events that occurred during the first year of the Protected Period and any such events shall not be deemed to have been agreed to or waived by the Executive); or
(c) A failure by the Company (I) to continue any cash bonus or other incentive compensation plans in substantially the same form and with the same opportunity levels as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control, or (II) to continue the Executive as a participant in such plans on at least the same basis as the Executive participated in accordance with the plans immediately prior to the Change in Control, in each case to the extent such failure would result in a material diminution in Executive's compensation; or
(d) A requirement by the Company that the Executive relocate from his/her personal place of residence immediately prior to the Change in Control or, if the Executive is not required to relocate, a change of the Executive's principal work location from that immediately prior to the Change in Control which is 50 or more miles further away from his/her personal place of residence (other than if the Company's CEO immediately prior to the Change in Control remains CEO of the Company during the Protected Period following the Change in Control, and if 50% or more of the Company's Board of Directors during the Protected Period following the Change in Control were members of the Board of Directors immediately prior to the Change in Control); or
(e) A significant reduction in the Executive's aggregate level of coverage under the Company's welfare, retirement and other employee benefit plans, as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control.
2. . The Executive Severance Agreement provides that Termination Benefits include, among other things, base salary through date of termination and a pro rated portion of any bonus or incentive (based on the target bonus for the Executive for the year), without application of any denial provisions based on unsatisfactory personal performance or any other reason. For greater clarity, it is understood that for this purpose "target bonus" means the annual target bonus which is expressed as a percentage of base salary and communicated annually to Executive.
Definition of Target Bonus
3. . The Executive Severance Agreement provides that if payments under the Executive Severance Agreement would be subject to an excise tax under Code Section 4999 as a result of an excess parachute payment under Code Section 280G, the Company will make an additional Payment to Executive and such payment is referred to as the "Gross-Up Payment". Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Executive Severance Agreement, the Gross-Up Payment, or any portion of it, (if any) will be paid by the end of Employee's taxable year next following the taxable year in which Employee remits the related taxes.
Gross-Up Payment
4. . The Gross-Up Payment is intended to comply with Code Section 409A, and the Agreement will be construed and administered
Intent to Comply with Code section 409A
Group A with GU
 
accordingly. The separation pay (not including the Gross-Up Payment) provided for under the Executive Severance Agreement, including this Amendment, is intended and expected to be exempt from Section 409A of the Code pursuant to Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(b)(4) ("Short Term Deferrals) and applicable guidance. However, it is recognized that the final Treasury Regulations applicable with respect to Code Section 409A, which generally are effective January 1, 2009, were issued relatively recently and the interpretation of various provisions of such regulations is an ongoing and evolving process, and that additional formal and informal guidance continues to be issued. With these considerations in mind, the Company and Executive agree that if and to the extent that the Company determines that some or all of the Termination Benefits under the Executive Severance Agreement are subject to Code Section 409A, the Company will notify Executive of such determination and the following definitions and rules will apply, to the extent required by Code Section 409A.
(a) . Any termination of Executive's employment, which termination results in the Company's obligation to pay Termination Benefits, will in all cases meet the requirements for a Separation from Service as defined under Code Section 409A and applicable guidance.
Definition of Separation from Service
(b) . If Executive is a Specified Employee at the time of Executive's Separation from Service, the payment of Termination Benefits that are subject to Code Section 409A will be delayed until the date that is six months and one day after the date of the Separation from Service. Specified Employee is defined as a Participant who is a specified employee for purposes of section 1.409A-1(i) of the U.S. Treasury Regulations and the determination of the individuals who are Specified Employees will be determined pursuant to the rules and procedures set forth in the separate document entitled "U.S. Bank Specified Employee Determination."
Specified Employee; Delay in Payment of Termination Benefits
, the parties have caused this Amendment to be executed as of the December 31, 2008.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
Group A with GU

Exhibit 10.7(b)
By their signatures below, U.S. Bancorp (the "Company") and Pamela A. Joseph ("Employee"), agree that the Employment Agreement dated May 7, 2001 among the Company, Employee, Nova Corporation and Nova Information Systems, Inc. ("Employment Agreement") is hereby amended as set forth below. The purpose of this amendment ("Amendment") is to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). Capitalized words that are not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Employment Agreement.
Employee and the Company have entered into the Employment Agreement which provides, among other things, for the payment of Termination Payments upon Employee's termination of employment (i) by the Company without cause, (ii) by Employee as a result of negative changes in the employment relationship that effectively render such termination an involuntary termination, or (iii) by Employee voluntarily within two years following a Change in Control; and
WHEREAS,
, the Company and Employee wish to amend the Employment Agreement to comply with Section 409A of the Code:
WHEREAS
, in consideration of the mutual benefits to the parties that result from compliance with Code Section 409A and the timely amendment of the Employment Agreement, the Company and Employee agree that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Employment Agreement, the following provisions, definitions and rules will apply and the Employment Agreement shall be construed accordingly.
NOW, THEREFORE
Sections 3(h) of the Employment Agreement provides for the acceleration of vesting of options, restricted stock and other similar rights as well as any non-qualified retirement balance or deferred compensation balance (collectively referred to as "Rights") upon a Change in Control. Sections 7(a)(iii) and (iv) of the Employment Agreement provide for the acceleration of vesting of Rights in the event that Employee's employment is terminated under specified circumstances. Notwithstanding anything arguably to the contrary in the Employment Agreement, including, without limitation, Sections 3(h) and 7(a)(iii) and (iv), the acceleration of vesting of Rights that constitute deferred compensation subject to Code Section 409A shall not, in and of itself, alter the payment date with respect to such deferred compensation. The time and form of payment of such deferred compensation shall be governed by the terms of the applicable deferred compensation plan, , that if Employee has been awarded restricted stock units ("RSUs") under the Company's stock incentive plan that are subject to Code Section 409A, and the vesting of such RSUs is accelerated pursuant to the terms of the Employment Agreement, the payment date for such RSUs shall be the earlier of (i) the vesting date for the RSUs, prior to any accelerated vesting, if the Employee had continued in employment (a specified date), and (ii) the date that is thirty days following Employee's "separation from service" with the Company and its affiliates. Separation from service has the meaning ascribed to it under Code Section 409A and applicable guidance, provided that the term "affiliate" shall mean a business entity which is affiliated in ownership with the Company and
1. Vesting of Rights.
provided, however
 
that is treated as a single employer under the rules of section 414(b) and (c) of the Code, applying an eighty percent common ownership standard ("Separation from Service").
. Section 7 of the Employment Agreement provides for the payment of a Severance Payment and a Supplemental Payment upon Employee's termination of employment (i) by the Company without cause, or (ii) by Employee as a result of negative changes in the employment relationship that effectively render such termination an involuntary termination. It is mutually understood that the Supplemental Payment, which is defined in Section 7(a)(ii), (i) is an additional payment required as a result of Employee's actual or constructive involuntary termination, the amount of which is determined with reference to the prior year's Bonus Compensation, and (ii) is not a payment of all or any portion of Bonus Compensation that would or could have become payable with respect to Employee's services for the year in which Employee's termination of employment occurs had Employee continued employment through the end of that year. Section 7 provides for the payment of a Severance Payment (but not a Supplemental Payment) upon a termination of employment by Employee voluntarily within two years following a Change in Control. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Employment Agreement, the following rules will apply with respect to the Severance Payment and the Supplemental Payment.
2. Termination Payments
. Any termination of Employee's employment, which termination results in the Company's obligation to pay a Severance Payment or a Supplemental Payment, will in all cases meet the definition of Separation from Service.
(a) Definition of Separation from Service
If Employee is a Specified Employee at the time of her Separation from Service, the payment of any portion of the Severance Payment and/or the Supplemental Payment that would otherwise have been paid during the six month period following Employee's Separation from Service will be delayed until at least six (6) months following her Separation from Service. On the first business day following the expiration of that six (6) month period, all amounts that would have been paid during the six (6) month period shall be paid to Employee.
(b) Specified Employee; Delay in Payment of Severance Payment and Supplemental Payment.
Specified Employee means an individual who is a specified employee for purposes of section 1.409A-1(i) of the U.S. Treasury Regulations and the determination by the Company of the identity of the Specified Employees as of a given date will be determined pursuant to the rules and procedures set forth in the separate document entitled "U.S. Bank Specified Employee Determination.
(c) Definition of Specified Employee.
Section 7(a) provides that the Company will (with limited exceptions), during the Continuation Period, provide to Employee and her dependents medical, dental and life insurance benefits. To the extent that such benefits are provided through a self funded group health plan, the fair market value of any Company subsidy of the cost of coverage will be reported as taxable income to the Employee.
3. Medical, Dental and Life Insurance Benefits During Continuation Period.
 
Section 7(a) provides that upon Employee's termination of employment under certain circumstances Employee's accrued but unpaid Bonus Compensation shall be paid on the date that Bonus Compensation would have been payable under the Incentive Compensation Plan had termination of employment not occurred. Notwithstanding anything in the Employment Agreement to the contrary, including, without limitation, Section 7(a), it is mutually agreed and understood that to the extent that Bonus Compensation is payable pursuant to an award under the Company's 2006 Executive Incentive Plan, no portion of such award shall be paid unless the performance criteria for the performance period have been met and Employee remains employed at the end of the performance period.
4. Accrued but Unpaid Bonus Compensation.
Section 7(c) provides that upon certain terminations of employment other than by the Company without cause or by Employee for reasons constituting a constructive termination, the Company, at its sole discretion, may cause Employee to comply with certain non-disclosure, non-solicitation and non-compete obligations for a period of either one year or two years, in exchange for the One Year Payment or the Two Year Payment, as applicable, each to be paid in monthly installments. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Employment Agreement, including, without limitation, Section 7(c), the following rules will apply.
5. One Year Payment and Two Year Payment  Delay in Payment.
. Any termination of Employee's employment, which termination results in the Company's obligation to pay a One Year Payment or a Two Year Payment will in all cases meet the definition of Separation from Service.
(a) Definition of Separation from Service
If Employee is a Specified Employee at the time of her Separation from Service, the payment of any portion of the One Year Payment or the Two Year Payment that would otherwise have been paid during the six month period following Employee's Separation from Service will be delayed until at least six (6) months following her Separation from Service. On the first business day following the expiration of that six (6) month period, all amounts that would have been paid during the six (6) month period shall be paid to Employee.
(b) Specified Employee; Delay in Payment of One Year Payment and Two Year Payment.
. Section 7(e) provides that if Termination Payments result in an excise tax under Code Section 4999 as a result of an excess parachute payment under Code Section 280G, the Company will make an additional payment to Employee, such payment referred to as the "Gross-Up Payment". Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Employment Agreement, including, without limitation, under Section 7(e), the Gross-Up Payment, or any portion of it, (if any) will be paid by the end of Employee's taxable year next following the taxable year in which Employee remits the related taxes.
6. Gross-Up Payment
. Section 7(f)(i) of the Employment Agreement defines "Change in Control". Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Employment Agreement, including, without limitation, Section 7(f)(i), the events described in Sections 7(f)(i)(A) through (D) shall constitute a Change in Control only if such events also would constitute a "change in
7. Definition of Change in Control
 
the ownership" of the Company, a "change in the effective control" of the Company, or a "change in the ownership of a substantial portion" of the Company's assets, all as defined under Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(5) and other applicable guidance.
. The Termination Payments provided for under the Employment Agreement and all other terms of the Employment Agreement, as amended by this Amendment, are intended to comply with Code Section 409A and applicable guidance. The Employment Agreement as amended by this Amendment will be construed and administered accordingly. If at any time the Company determines that the Employment Agreement must be further amended to comply with Code Section 409A, Employees consents to such amendment for the limited purpose, and only to the extent required, to comply with Code Section 409A.
8. Intent to Comply with Code section 409A
, the parties have caused this Amendment to be executed as of the December 31, 2008.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF

Exhibit 10.8(a)
NOTE: Stock options granted to members of the Management Committee ("Optionees") of U.S. Bancorp (the "Company") after December 31, 2008 will have the terms and conditions set forth in each Optionee's grant summary (the "Grant Summary"), which can be accessed on the Citigroup/Smith Barney Benefit Access Website at www.benefitaccess.com. The Grant Summary may be viewed at any time on this Website, and the Grant Summary may also be printed out. In addition to the individual terms and conditions set forth in the Grant Summary, each stock option will have the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement below. As a condition to each stock option grant, Optionee accepts the terms and conditions of the Grant Summary and the Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement.
sets forth the terms and conditions of a stock option for the purchase of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Common Stock"), of the Company granted to each Optionee by the Company pursuant to its 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan").
THIS AGREEMENT
The Company and Optionee agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement for MC members.

Exhibit 10.9(a)
NOTE: Restricted stock awards made to members of the Management Committee ("Participants") of U.S. Bancorp (the "Company") after December 31, 2008 will have the terms and conditions set forth in each Participant's award summary (the "Award Summary"), which can be accessed on the Citigroup/Smith Barney Benefit Access Website at www.benefitaccess.com. The Award Summary may be viewed at any time on this Website, and the Award Summary may also be printed out. In addition to the individual terms and conditions set forth in the Award Summary, each restricted stock award will have the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement below. As a condition of each restricted stock award, Participant accepts the terms and conditions of the Award Summary and the Restricted Stock Award Agreement.
sets forth the terms and conditions of a restricted stock award of Common Stock (the "Common Stock"), par value $0.01 per share, of the Company granted to each Participant by the Company pursuant to its 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan").
THIS AGREEMENT
The Company and Participant agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement for MC members

Exhibit 10.10(a)
NOTE: Restricted stock unit awards made to members of the Management Committee ("Participants") of U.S. Bancorp (the "Company") after December 31, 2008 will have the terms and conditions set forth in each Participant's award summary (the "Award Summary"), which can be accessed on the Citigroup/Smith Barney Benefit Access Website at www.benefitaccess.com. The Award Summary may be viewed at any time on this Website, and the Award Summary may also be printed out. In addition to the individual terms and conditions set forth in the Award Summary, each restricted stock unit award will have the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement below. As a condition of each restricted stock unit award, Participant accepts the terms and conditions of the Award Summary and the Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement.
("Agreement") sets forth the terms and conditions of a restricted stock unit award representing the right to receive shares of Common Stock (the "Common Stock"), par value $0.01 per share, of the Company granted by the Company pursuant to its 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Capitalized terms that are not defined in this Agreement shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan.
THIS AGREEMENT
The Company and Participant agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for MC members

Exhibit 10.11 (a)
NOTE: Restricted stock unit awards made to non-employee directors ("Participants") of U.S. Bancorp (the "Company") after December 31, 2008 will have the terms and conditions set forth in each Participant's award summary (the "Award Summary"), which can be accessed on the Citigroup/Smith Barney Benefit Access Website at www.benefitaccess.com. The Award Summary may be viewed at any time on this Website, and the Award Summary may also be printed out. In addition to the individual terms and conditions set forth in the Award Summary, each stock award will have the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement below. As a condition to each restricted stock unit award, Participant accepts the terms and conditions of the Award Summary and the Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement.
sets forth the terms and conditions of a restricted stock unit award representing the right to receive shares of Common Stock (the "Common Stock"), par value $0.01 per share, of the Company granted to each Participant by the Company pursuant to its 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan").
THIS AGREEMENT
The Company and Participant agree as follows:
 
 
 
Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement for directors


