FILE:USB/USB-8K-20090306165606.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d) Effective March 3, 2009, the Board of Directors of U.S. Bancorp (the "Company") appointed Y. Marc Belton to the Board of Directors to fill a vacancy currently existing on the Board. Mr. Belton will join the Audit Committee and Community Reinvestment and Public Policy Committee of the Board of Directors effective April 20, 2009.
A copy of the press release issued by the Company on March 5, 2009 announcing Mr. Belton's appointment to the Board of Directors is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
(e) On March 2, 2009, the Company granted each of the following executive officers performance restricted stock units ("Units") in amounts equal to the target award number indicated below (the "Target Award Number"):
The Target Award Number will be adjusted upward or downward depending on (1) whether the return on equity ("ROE") achieved by the Company during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009 (the "ROE Result") is greater or less than a predetermined ROE target, and (2) the percentile rank of the Company's ROE Result relative to the ROE achieved by designated peer group companies during the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009. In no event will the adjusted number of Units (the "Final Award Number") awarded to each executive officer be less than 25% of the Target Award Number or more than 150% of the Target Award Number.
The Units vest at 25% per year on the anniversary of the grant date of the Units if the executive officer remains continuously employed by the Company or an affiliate until such vesting dates. The Units will be immediately and irrevocably forfeited if the executive officer ceases to be employed by the Company or an affiliate, except that:
In addition, if the executive officer violates the terms of any confidentiality and non-solicitation agreement with the Company or an affiliate, then all of the executive officer's unvested Units will be immediately and irrevocably forfeited. The terms "disability," "retirement," "qualifying termination" and "change in control" are defined in the award agreement.
Following the vesting of the Units and the payment of any applicable withholding taxes, the Company will cause to be issued and delivered to the executive officers a certificate or certificates evidencing shares of the Company's common stock equal to the number of Units vested.
Prior to the distribution of shares of the Company's common stock with respect to Units, the executive officers will not have ownership rights of any of the shares underlying the Units. Executive officers will be entitled to receive
Table of Contents
cash dividend equivalents on the shares underlying Units if cash dividends are declared by the Company's Board of Directors on the Company's common stock on or after the date that the Final Award Number is determined (the "Determination Date"). Executive officers will be entitled to cash dividend equivalents based on a number of Units equal to the Final Award Number. The cash dividend equivalents will be paid to the executive officers on the same payment dates as dividends to holders of the Company's common stock are paid. Executive officers will not be entitled to any cash dividend equivalents with respect to dividends declared prior to the Determination Date.
The Units were awarded pursuant to the shareholder-approved U.S. Bancorp 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2007 Stock Plan"), a copy of which is on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 8-K filed on April 18, 2007. The form of Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement used in connection with Unit awards to executive officers under the 2007 Stock Plan, including the awards to the executive officers listed above, is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The description in this Current Report on Form 8-K of the form of Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the attached form of such agreement.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 6, 2009
Table of Contents

Exhibit 10.1
NOTE: Performance restricted stock unit awards made to members of the Management Committee ("Participants") of U.S. Bancorp (the "Company") after December 31, 2008 will have the terms and conditions set forth in (a) each Participant's award summary (the "Award Summary"), which can be accessed on the Citigroup/Smith Barney Benefit Access Website at , and (b) the form of Exhibit A hereto (which will be completed to include all information called for therein) (the "Completed Exhibit A") provided to such Participant as soon as administratively feasible following the date on which the award is made. The Award Summary may be viewed at any time on this Website, and the Award Summary may also be printed out. In addition to the individual terms and conditions set forth in the Award Summary and the Completed Exhibit A, each performance restricted stock unit award will have the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement below. As a condition of each performance restricted stock unit award, Participant accepts the terms and conditions of the Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, the Award Summary and the Completed Exhibit A.
www.benefitaccess.com
, together with the Award Summary and the Completed Exhibit A which are incorporated herein by reference (collectively, the "Agreement"), sets forth the terms and conditions of a performance restricted stock unit award representing the right to receive shares of common stock of the Company, par value $0.01 per share (the "Common Stock"). The Agreement is issued pursuant to the Plan and is subject to its terms. Capitalized terms that are not defined in the Agreement shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan.
THIS AGREEMENT
The Company and Participant agree as follows:
1.
Award
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Agreement, the Company grants to Participant a performance restricted stock unit award entitling Participant to the number of performance restricted stock units (the "Units") equal to the "Target Award Number" set forth in Participant's Award Summary (such number of units, the "Target Award Number"). The Target Award Number shall be adjusted upward or downward as provided in the Completed Exhibit A. The number of Units that Participant will receive under this Agreement, after giving effect to such adjustment, is referred to herein as the "Final Award Number." Each Unit represents the right to receive one share of Common Stock, subject to the vesting requirements and distribution provisions of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan. The shares of Common Stock distributable to Participant with respect to the Units granted hereunder are referred to as the "Shares." Participant's Award Summary sets forth the date of grant of this award (the "Grant Date"). The Completed Exhibit A sets forth (a) the performance period over which the Final Award Number will be determined (the "Performance Period"), and (b) the date on which the Final Award Number will be determined (the "Determination Date").
 
2.
Vesting; Forfeiture
 
 
 
 
3.
Restriction on Transfer
Except for transfers by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution, the Units cannot be sold, assigned, transferred, gifted, pledged, or in any manner encumbered, alienated, attached or disposed of, and any purported sale, assignment, transfer, gift, pledge, alienation, attachment or encumbrance shall be void and unenforceable against the Company. No such attempt to transfer the Units, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall vest the purported transferee with any interest or right in or with respect to the Units or the Shares issuable with respect to the Units.
4.
Distribution of Shares with Respect to Units
Subject to the restrictions in this Section 4, following the vesting of Units and following the payment of any applicable withholding taxes pursuant to Section 8 of this Agreement, the Company shall cause to be issued and delivered to Participant a certificate or certificates evidencing Shares registered in the name of Participant or in the name of Participant's legal representatives, beneficiaries or heirs, as the case may be, as follows:
 
5.
Securities Law Compliance
The delivery of all or any of the Shares in accordance with this Award shall be effective only at such time that the issuance of such Shares will not violate any state or federal securities or other laws. The Company is under no obligation to effect any registration of the Shares under the Securities Act of 1933 or to effect any state registration or qualification of the Shares. The Company may, in its sole discretion, delay the delivery of the Shares or place restrictive legends on such Shares in order to ensure that the issuance of any Shares will be in compliance with federal or state securities laws and the rules of the New York Stock Exchange or any other exchange upon which the Company's Common Stock is traded.
 
6.
Rights as Shareholder; Dividend Equivalents
Prior to the distribution of Shares with respect to Units pursuant to Section 4, Participant shall not have ownership or rights of ownership of any Shares underlying the Units. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Participant shall be entitled to receive cash dividend equivalents on the Shares underlying Units, whether such Units are vested or unvested, if cash dividends are declared by the Company's Board of Directors on the Common Stock on or after the Determination Date. Participant shall be entitled to dividend equivalents with respect to a number of Units equal to the Final Award Number. Such dividend equivalents will be in an amount of cash per Unit equal to the cash dividend paid with respect to a share of outstanding Common Stock. Dividend equivalents will be paid to Participant on the same payment dates as dividends to holders of the Common Stock are paid. Participant shall not be entitled to dividend equivalents with respect to dividends declared prior to the Determination Date. Dividend equivalents paid with respect to dividends declared before the delivery of the Shares underlying the Units will be treated as compensation income for tax purposes and will be subject to income and payroll tax withholding by the Company.
7.
Distributions and Adjustments
The Award shall be subject to adjustment, in accordance with Section 4(c) of the Plan, in the event that any distribution, recapitalization, reorganization, merger or other event covered by Section 4(c) of the Plan shall occur.
8.
Income Tax Withholding
In order to comply with all applicable federal or state income tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal or state payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are the sole and absolute responsibility of Participant, are withheld or collected from Participant. Participant may satisfy any applicable tax withholding obligations arising from the receipt of Shares, or lapse of restrictions relating to the Units, by check payable to the Company. In addition, Participant may, at Participant's election, satisfy any such obligations that arise at the time of delivery of Shares by electing to have the Company withhold a portion of the Shares otherwise to be delivered with a Fair Market Value (as such term is defined in the Plan) equal to the amount of such taxes. The election must be made on or before the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is determined.
9.
Miscellaneous
 
10.
Governing Law
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Minnesota.
MC Performance RSU Award Agreement
 
This Exhibit A to the Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement sets forth the manner in which the Final Award Number will be determined for each Participant.
Definitions
Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the same meanings assigned to them in the Plan, the Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement and Participant's Award Summary. The following terms used in the text of this Exhibit A and in the ROE Performance Matrix shall have the meanings set forth below:
"" means %.
Company ROE Maximum
     
"" means %.
Company ROE Minimum
     
"" means the ROE achieved by the Company during the Performance Period.
Company ROE Result
"" means %.
Company ROE Target
     
"" means the date on which the Final Award Number is determined, which date shall not be later than 45 days after the last day of the Performance Period.
Determination Date
"" means the "Final Award Number" determined in accordance with this Exhibit A.
Final Award Number
"" means the following companies: .
Peer Group Companies
                    
                    
"" means the percentile.
Peer Group ROE Ranking Maximum
     
"" means the percentile.
Peer Group ROE Ranking Minimum
     
"" means the percentile.
Peer Group ROE Ranking Target
     
"" means the ROE achieved by the Peer Group Companies during the Performance Period.
Peer Group ROE
"" means the percentile rank of the Company ROE Result relative to Peer Group ROE.
Peer Group ROE Ranking
"" means the year ending December 31, .
Performance Period
     
"" means (a) net income of a company during the Performance Period, divided by (b) total shareholders' equity as of the last day of the Performance Period.
ROE
"" means the ROE Performance Matrix set forth in this Exhibit A.
ROE Performance Matrix
"" means the "Target Award Number" set forth in a Participant's Award Summary.
Target Award Number
"" means the "Target Award Number Percentage" determined in accordance with the ROE Performance Matrix and the related rules set forth in this Exhibit A.
Target Award Number Percentage
Determination of Final Award Number
Each Participant has been granted a number of Units equal to the Target Award Number. The Target Award Number will be adjusted upward or downward depending on (a) whether the Company ROE Result is greater or less than the Company ROE Target, and (b) the Peer Group ROE Ranking. The Final Award Number for each Participant will be determined by multiplying (i) the Target Award Number Percentage by (ii) the Target Award Number. The Target Award Number Percentage will be determined in accordance with the following ROE Performance Matrix and the related rules below:
 
In determining the Target Award Number Percentage in accordance with the ROE Performance Matrix, the following rules will apply:
 
The Final Award Number for each Participant shall be determined by the Committee on the Determination Date. The Award Summary of each Participant shall be amended to reflect the Final Award Number as soon as administratively feasible after the Final Award Number for such Participant is determined.
Committee Determinations
The Committee shall make all determinations necessary to arrive at the Final Award Number for each Participant. The Committee shall determine the Company ROE Result by reference to the Company's audited financial statements as of and for the year ending on the last day of the Performance Period. The Committee shall determine the Peer Group ROE Ranking by reference to publicly available financial information regarding the Peer Companies. Any determination by the Committee pursuant to this Exhibit A will be binding upon each Participant and the Company.
No Fractional Units
In the event the Final Award Number is a number of Units that is not a whole number, then the Final Award Number shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number.

Exhibit 99.1
(March 6, 2009)  U.S. Bancorp (NYSE: USB) announced today that Y. Marc Belton has been appointed to its board of directors. Belton, 49, is executive vice president, Worldwide Health, Brand and New Business Development of General Mills, Inc., a manufacturer and marketer of consumer food products based in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Belton joined General Mills in 1983 and held various leadership positions within the company before moving into his current position in 2005.
MINNEAPOLIS
"The addition of Marc to our board of directors brings many years of outstanding service in the field of brand management and business development to our organization. His extensive experience and insight will be a valued addition and complement the contributions of the other 12 members of our board," said Richard K. Davis, chairman, president and chief executive officer of U.S. Bancorp. "We are pleased that he is becoming a member of our board."
Belton, a resident of the Twin Cities, is a graduate of Dartmouth College and the Wharton School of Business. He also serves on the National Advisory Board of the Salvation Army and the board of the Guthrie Theater.
Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp, with $266 billion in assets, is the parent company of U.S. Bank National Association, the 6th largest commercial bank in the United States. The company operates 2,791 banking offices and 5,164 ATMs in 24 states, and provides a comprehensive line of banking, brokerage, insurance, investment, mortgage, trust and payment services products to consumers, businesses and institutions. Visit U.S. Bancorp on the web at usbank.com.


