FILE:USB/USB-8K-20101119172011.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On November 17, 2010, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of U.S. Bancorp (the "Company") approved an amended and restated form of Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (the "Amended and Restated Agreement"). The Amended and Restated Agreement replaces the award agreements for the performance restricted stock units (the "Units") awarded on February 16, 2010, to the Company's executive officers. The Amended and Restated Agreement does not apply to the special, one-time retention awards of performance restricted stock units that were also granted to the executive officers on that date.
The Amended and Restated Agreement modifies the original agreements for these awards by providing that the Units accrue cash dividend equivalents for any cash dividends declared by the Companys Board of Directors on the Companys common stock after the grant date and before the date that the final award number of Units is determined (the Determination Date), in addition to the dividend equivalents that currently accrue on the Units on and after the Determination Date. The executive officers will be entitled to dividend equivalents only with respect to a number of Units equal to the final award number of Units determined on the Determination Date. The final award number of Units is based on (i) the Companys return on equity result versus a predetermined target and (ii) the Companys return on equity ranking in its peer group. The dividend equivalents accrued prior to the Determination Date will be paid after the Determination Date.
The Units were awarded pursuant to the shareholder-approved U.S. Bancorp 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, which, as amended and restated, was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 20, 2010. The form of Amended and Restated Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The description in this Current Report on Form 8-K of the form of Amended and Restated Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the attached form of the agreement.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 19, 2010
 

Exhibit 10.1
NOTE: This Amended and Restated Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement is applicable to certain performance restricted stock unit awards made to members of the Management Committee ("Participants") of U.S. Bancorp (the "Company") on February 16, 2010. These performance restricted stock unit awards have the terms and conditions set forth in (a) each Participant's award summary (the "Award Summary"), which can be accessed on the Citigroup/Smith Barney Benefit Access Website at
www.benefitaccess.com
, and (b) the form of Exhibit A hereto (which will be completed to include all information called for therein) (the "Completed Exhibit A") provided to such Participant as soon as administratively feasible following the date on which the award is made. The Award Summary may be viewed at any time on this Website, and the Award Summary may also be printed out. In addition to the individual terms and conditions set forth in the Award Summary and the Completed Exhibit A, each performance restricted stock unit award will have the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement below. The Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement was amended and restated as of November 17, 2010 by the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Company's Board of Directors to make changes to Section 6. As a condition of each performance restricted stock unit award, Participant accepts the terms and conditions of the Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement, the Award Summary and the Completed Exhibit A.
, together with the Award Summary and the Completed Exhibit A which are incorporated herein by reference (collectively, the "Agreement"), sets forth the terms and conditions of a performance restricted stock unit award representing the right to receive shares of common stock of the Company, par value $0.01 per share (the "Common Stock"). The Agreement is issued pursuant to the Plan and is subject to its terms. Capitalized terms that are not defined in the Agreement shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan.
THIS AGREEMENT
The Company and Participant agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
MC Performance RSU Award Agreement (Amended and restated as of November 17, 2010)
 
This Exhibit A to the Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement sets forth the manner in which the Final Award Number will be determined for each Participant.
Definitions
Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the same meanings assigned to them in the Plan, the Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement and Participant's Award Summary. The following terms used in the text of this Exhibit A and in the ROE Performance Matrix shall have the meanings set forth below:
"" means  _____ %.
Company ROE Maximum
"" means  _____ %.
Company ROE Minimum
"" means the ROE achieved by the Company during the Performance Period.
Company ROE Result
"" means  _____ %.
Company ROE Target
"" means the date on which the Final Award Number is determined, which date shall not be later than 45 days after the last day of the Performance Period.
Determination Date
"" means the "Final Award Number" determined in accordance with this Exhibit A.
Final Award Number
"" means the following companies: .
Peer Group Companies
                    
                    
"" means the  _____  percentile.
Peer Group ROE Ranking Maximum
"" means the  _____  percentile.
Peer Group ROE Ranking Minimum
"" means the  _____  percentile.
Peer Group ROE Ranking Target
"" means the ROE achieved by the Peer Group Companies during the Performance Period.
Peer Group ROE
"" means the percentile rank of the Company ROE Result relative to Peer Group ROE.
Peer Group ROE Ranking
"" means the year ending December 31,  _____.
Performance Period
"" means (a) net income of a company during the Performance Period, divided by (b) total shareholders' equity as of the last day of the Performance Period.
ROE
"" means the ROE Performance Matrix set forth in this Exhibit A.
ROE Performance Matrix
"" means the "Target Award Number" set forth in a Participant's Award Summary.
Target Award Number
 
"" means the "Target Award Number Percentage" determined in accordance with the ROE Performance Matrix and the related rules set forth in this Exhibit A.
Target Award Number Percentage
Determination of Final Award Number
Each Participant has been granted a number of Units equal to the Target Award Number. The Target Award Number will be adjusted upward or downward depending on (a) whether the Company ROE Result is greater or less than the Company ROE Target, and (b) the Peer Group ROE Ranking. The Final Award Number for each Participant will be determined by multiplying (i) the Target Award Number Percentage by (ii) the Target Award Number. The Target Award Number Percentage will be determined in accordance with the following ROE Performance Matrix and the related rules below:
In determining the Target Award Number Percentage in accordance with the ROE Performance Matrix, the following rules will apply:
 
The Final Award Number for each Participant shall be determined by the Committee on the Determination Date. The Award Summary of each Participant shall be amended to reflect the Final Award Number as soon as administratively feasible after the Final Award Number for such Participant is determined.
Committee Determinations
The Committee shall make all determinations necessary to arrive at the Final Award Number for each Participant. The Committee shall determine the Company ROE Result by reference to the Company's audited financial statements as of and for the year ending on the last day of the Performance Period. The Committee shall determine the Peer Group ROE Ranking by reference to publicly available financial information regarding the Peer Companies. Any determination by the Committee pursuant to this Exhibit A will be binding upon each Participant and the Company.
No Fractional Units
In the event the Final Award Number is a number of Units that is not a whole number, then the Final Award Number shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number.


