FILE:USB/USB-8K-20100218165038.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On February 16, 2010, all of the members of the Managing Committee of U.S. Bancorp (the "Company"), which consists of Richard K. Davis, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and the 13 individuals who report directly to him, were awarded their annual long-term incentive grants as well as special, one-time retention awards of performance restricted stock units (the "Retention Units"). The vesting of the Retention Units is contingent upon the Company's meeting a pre-established performance target. Only if the average of the Company's return on equity in 2010, 2011 and 2012 is equal to or above the 50th percentile of the averages of the peer group returns on equity during that three-year period (the "Performance Target") will the Retention Units begin to vest. If this Performance Target is met, then 50% of the Retention Units vest on the third anniversary of the grant date, 25% on the fourth anniversary and 25% on the fifth anniversary. If the Performance Target is not met, all of the Retention Units will be forfeited.
     Mr. Davis's retention award was valued at $7 million (equal to 140% of his annual long-term equity incentive award). Retention awards for the other Managing Committee members ranged from 44% to 133% of their annual long-term equity incentive grants depending on the significance of their responsibilities, their relative attractiveness to competitors, current career stages, and relative retentive value of earlier equity awards. All of these executive officers also received their annual long-term equity incentive awards on February 16, 2010, which were granted one-half in the form of performance-based restricted stock units and one-half in the form of stock options. Mr. Davis's total annual long-term incentive award was valued at $5 million, and the annual long-term incentive awards received by the other Managing Committee members ranged from $400,000 to $3 million in grant date value.
     The number of Retention Units awarded to the executive officers named in the Summary Compensation Table in the Company's 2009 proxy statement were:
     In the view of U.S. Bancorp's Compensation and Human Resources Committee (the "Committee"), the performance of the management team led by Mr. Davis has been outstanding relative to its peer group. The Committee believes Mr. Davis and his management team to be extremely valuable, and believes this award to be important in order to retain them. The Committee believes that the leadership of this team during this time of economic crisis and their continuing guidance of the Company as it moves forward to be critical to the Company's success. In making this decision, the Committee considered that the Company has remained profitable, grown its core businesses, and created operating momentum through very difficult times. The Company was among the first of its peers to pass the government initiated stress test and was one of the first banks to repurchase the preferred stock issued to the government under the Capital Purchase Program of the government's Troubled Asset Relief Program and to repurchase the related common stock warrant.
     Unvested Retention Units will be immediately and irrevocably forfeited if the executive officer ceases to be employed by the Company or an affiliate, except that:
 
     In addition, if the executive officer violates the terms of any confidentiality and non-solicitation agreement with the Company or an affiliate, then all of the executive officer's unvested Retention Units will be immediately and irrevocably forfeited. The terms "disability," "retirement," "qualifying termination" and "change in control" are defined in the award agreement.
     Following the vesting of the Retention Units and the payment of any applicable withholding taxes, the Company will deliver to the executive officers shares of the Company's common stock equal to the number of Retention Units vested.
     Prior to the distribution of shares of the Company's common stock with respect to the Retention Units, the executive officers will not have ownership rights of any of the shares underlying the Retention Units. Executive officers will be entitled to receive cash dividend equivalents on the shares underlying the Retention Units, including the dividend equivalents accrued but not paid prior to the first vesting, if the Company achieves or exceeds the Performance Target.
     The Retention Units were awarded pursuant to the shareholder-approved U.S. Bancorp 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2007 Stock Plan"), a copy of which is on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 18, 2007. The form of Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement used in connection with the Retention Unit awards is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The description in this Current Report on Form 8-K of the form of Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the attached form of agreement.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 18, 2010
 

Exhibit 10.1
NOTE: Performance restricted stock unit awards were made to certain members of the Managing Committee ("Participants") of U.S. Bancorp (the "Company") on February 16, 2010 (the "Grant Date"). Each of such Awards will have the terms and conditions set forth in the Participant's award summary (the "Award Summary"), which can be accessed on the Citigroup/Smith Barney Benefit Access Website at
www.benefitaccess.com
. The Award Summary may be viewed at any time on this Website, and the Award Summary may also be printed out. In addition to the individual terms and conditions set forth in the Award Summary, each performance restricted stock unit award will have the terms and conditions set forth in the form of Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement below. As a condition of each performance restricted stock unit award, Participant accepts the terms and conditions of the Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement and the Award Summary.
, together with the Award Summary and Exhibit A hereto which are incorporated herein by reference (collectively, the "Agreement"), sets forth the terms and conditions of a performance restricted stock unit award representing the right to receive shares of common stock of the Company, par value $0.01 per share (the "Common Stock"). The Agreement is issued pursuant to the Company's 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") and is subject to its terms. Capitalized terms that are not defined in the Agreement shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Plan.
THIS AGREEMENT
The Company and Participant agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Exhibit A to the Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement sets forth the method for determining whether the Company has achieved or exceeded the "Peer Group ROE Ranking Target" or the "Alternative Peer Group ROE Ranking Target," as the case may be.
Peer Group ROE Ranking Target
"" means a Peer Group ROE Ranking of 50%.
Peer Group ROE Ranking Target
The Committee shall determine whether the Company has achieved or exceeded the Peer Group ROE Ranking Target through application of the following definitions:
"" means the percentile rank of Company ROE relative to Peer Group ROE.
Peer Group ROE Ranking
"" means the simple average of the ROE achieved by the Company during each of the fiscal years ending December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012.
Company ROE
"" means the simple average of the ROE achieved by each of the Peer Group Companies during each of the fiscal years ending December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012.
Peer Group ROE
"" means (a) the net income of a company attributable to shareholders during each of the fiscal years ending December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, divided by (b) the average total common shareholders' equity of such company as of December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively.
ROE
"" means the following companies: Bank of America Corporation; BB&T Corporation; Fifth Third Bancorp; JPMorgan Chase and Co.; Keycorp; The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.; Regions Financial Corporation; SunTrust Banks, Inc.; and Wells Fargo & Company.
Peer Group Companies
"" means the three-year period ending December 31, 2012.
Performance Period
"" means the date on which the Peer Group ROE Ranking is determined, which date shall not be later than 60 days after the last day of the Performance Period.
Determination Date
Alternative Peer Group ROE Ranking Target
"" means an Alternative Peer Group ROE Ranking of 50%.
Alternative Peer Group ROE Ranking Target
The Committee shall determine whether the Company has achieved or exceeded the Alternative Peer Group ROE Ranking Target through application of the following definitions:
"" means the percentile rank of the Alternative Company ROE relative to the Alternative Peer Group ROE.
Alternative Peer Group ROE Ranking
"" means the simple average of the Alternative ROE achieved by the Company during each of the fiscal years ending December 31, 2010 and 2011, unless the Alternative Performance Period is comprised only of the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010, in
Alternative Company ROE
 
which case the "Alternative Company ROE" means the Alternative Company ROE achieved by the Company during such fiscal year.
"" means the simple average of the Alternative ROE achieved by each of the Peer Group Companies during each of the fiscal years ending December 31, 2010 and 2011, unless the Alternative Performance Period is comprised only of the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010, in which case the "Alternative Company ROE" means the Alternative ROE achieved by the Peer Group Companies during such fiscal year.
Alternative Peer Group ROE
"" means, in cases where the Alternative Performance Period is comprised of the two-year period ending December 31, 2011, (a) the net income of a company attributable to shareholders during each of the fiscal years ending December 31, 2010 and 2011, divided by (b) the average total common shareholders' equity of such company as of December 31, 2010 and 2011, respectively. If the Alternative Performance Period is comprised only of the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010, the "Alternative ROE" means for a company (i) the net income of such company attributable to shareholders during such fiscal year, divided by (ii) the average total common shareholders' equity of such company as of December 31, 2010.
Alternative ROE
"" means the following companies: Bank of America Corporation; BB&T Corporation; Fifth Third Bancorp; JPMorgan Chase and Co.; Keycorp; The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.; Regions Financial Corporation; SunTrust Banks, Inc.; and Wells Fargo & Company.
Peer Group Companies
"" means (i) the two-year period ending December 31, 2011, if a Qualifying Termination occurs on or after December 31, 2011 but before December 31, 2012 or (ii) the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010, if a Qualifying Termination occurs on or after December 31, 2010 but before December 31, 2011.
Alternative Performance Period
"" means the date on which the Alternative Peer Group ROE Ranking is determined, which date shall not be later than 60 days after the date of the Qualifying Termination.
Alternative Determination Date
Committee Determinations
The Committee shall make all determinations regarding achievement of the Peer Group ROE Ranking Target or the Alternative Peer Group ROE Ranking Target, as the case may be. The Committee shall determine the Company ROE and the Alternative Company ROE by reference to the financial statements of the Company set forth in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Committee shall determine the Peer Group ROE Ranking and the Alternative Peer Group ROE Ranking by reference to publicly available financial information regarding the Peer Group Companies. The Committee may modify the Companies comprising the Peer Group Companies as necessary or appropriate. Any determination by the Committee pursuant to this Exhibit A will be binding upon each Participant and the Company.


