FILE:USB/USB-8K-20100420161325.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On April 20, 2010, at the 2010 annual meeting of shareholders of U.S. Bancorp (the "Company"), the Company's shareholders approved the U.S. Bancorp Amended and Restated 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Amended Plan"), which previously had been approved by the Company's Board of Directors subject to shareholder approval. The Amended Plan permits grants of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, dividend equivalents, performance awards, stock awards and other stock-based awards (collectively, "Awards"). The Company's Board of Directors and the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors have the authority to determine the type of Award as well as the amount, form of payment, and other terms and conditions of each Award under the Amended Plan, subject to the limitations and other provisions of the Amended Plan.
The purpose of the Amended Plan is to promote the interests of the Company and its shareholders by aiding the Company in attracting and retaining employees, officers and non-employee directors capable of assuring the future success of the Company, to offer such persons incentives to put forth maximum efforts toward the success of the Company's business, and compensate such persons through various stock-based and other arrangements and afford them with an opportunity for stock ownership in the Company.
The U.S. Bancorp 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Original Plan") was originally approved by the Company's shareholders on April 17, 2007. The Amended Plan provides for the following changes to the Original Plan:
The number of shares available for Awards and the terms of outstanding Awards are subject to adjustment as provided in the Amended Plan for stock splits, stock dividends, recapitalizations and other similar events.
Awards may be granted under the Amended Plan only during a 10-year period beginning on the effective date of the Original Plan and ending on April 17, 2017. The Board may from time to time, amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate the Amended Plan, subject, in certain circumstances, to shareholder approval.
A more detailed summary of the material terms of the Amended Plan appears on pages 60 to 65 of the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A (the "Proxy Statement") which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 12, 2010. That summary is incorporated by reference herein. That summary and the description of the Amended Plan above are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the Amended Plan, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 20, 2010
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1. Purpose
The purpose of the Plan is to promote the interests of the Company and its stockholders by aiding the Company in attracting and retaining employees, officers and non-employee Directors capable of assuring the future success of the Company, to offer such persons incentives to put forth maximum efforts for the success of the Company's business and to compensate such persons through various stock-based and other arrangements and provide them with opportunities for stock ownership in the Company, thereby aligning the interests of such persons with the Company's stockholders.
Section 2. Definitions
As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
(a) "Affiliate" shall mean (i) any entity that, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, is controlled by the Company and (ii) any entity in which the Company has a significant equity interest, in each case as determined by the Committee.
(b) "Award" shall mean any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Award, Dividend Equivalent, Stock Award or Other Stock-Based Award granted under the Plan.
(c) "Award Agreement" shall mean any written agreement, contract or other instrument or document evidencing an Award granted under the Plan. An Award Agreement may be in an electronic medium and need not that be signed by a representative of the Company or the Participant. Each Award Agreement shall be subject to the applicable terms and conditions of the Plan and any other terms and conditions (not inconsistent with the Plan) determined by the Committee.
(d) "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
(e) "Change in Control" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in an Award Agreement, or any other applicable employment or change in control agreement between the Participant and the Company.
(f) "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and any regulations promulgated thereunder.
(g) "Committee" shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board or any successor committee of the Board designated by the Board to administer the Plan. The Committee shall be comprised of not less than such number of Directors as shall be required to permit Awards granted under the Plan to qualify under Rule 16b-3, and each member of the Committee shall be a "Non-Employee Director" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 and an "outside director" within the meaning of Section 162(m). The Company expects to have the Plan administered in accordance with the requirements for the award of "qualified performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m).
(h) "Company" shall mean U.S. Bancorp, a Delaware corporation, or any successor corporation.
(i) "Director" shall mean a member of the Board.
(j) "Dividend Equivalent" shall mean any right granted under Section 6(e) of the Plan.
(k) "Eligible Person" shall mean any employee, officer or non-employee Director providing services to the Company or any Affiliate who the Committee determines to be an Eligible Person.
(l) "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
(m) "Fair Market Value" shall mean, with respect to any property (including, without limitation, any Shares or other securities), the fair market value of such property determined by such methods or procedures as shall be established from time to time by the Committee. Notwithstanding the foregoing and unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the Fair Market Value of a Share as of a given date shall be, if the Shares are then listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the closing price of one Share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on such date or, if the New York Stock Exchange is not open for trading on such date, on the most recent preceding date when it was open for trading.
(n) "Incentive Stock Option" shall mean an option granted under Section 6(a) of the Plan that is intended to meet the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision.
(o) "Non-Qualified Stock Option" shall mean an option granted under Section 6(a) of the Plan that is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option.
(p) "Option" shall mean an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Qualified Stock Option.
(q) "Other Stock-Based Award" shall mean any right granted under Section 6(g) of the Plan.
(r) "Participant" shall mean an Eligible Person designated to be granted an Award under the Plan.
(s) "Performance Award" shall mean any right granted under Section 6(d) of the Plan.
(t) "Performance Goal" shall mean one or more of the following performance goals, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, applied on a corporate, subsidiary, division, business unit or line of business basis: sales, revenue, costs, expenses (including expense efficiency ratios and other expense measures), earnings (including one or more of net profit after tax, gross profit, operating profit, earnings before interest and taxes, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and net earnings), earnings per share, earnings per share from continuing operations, operating income, pre-tax income, operating income margin, net income, margins (including one or more of gross, operating and net income margins), returns (including one or more of return on actual or proforma assets, net assets, equity, investment, capital and net capital employed), stockholder return (including total stockholder return relative to an index or peer group), stock price, growth of loans and deposits, number of customers or households, economic value added, cash generation, cash flow, unit volume, working capital, market share, cost reductions and strategic plan development and implementation. Such goals may reflect absolute entity or business unit performance or a relative comparison to the performance of a peer group of entities or other external measure of the selected performance criteria. Pursuant to rules and conditions adopted by the Committee on or before the 90th day of the applicable performance period for which Performance Goals are established, the Committee may appropriately adjust any evaluation of performance under such goals to exclude the effect of certain events, including any of the following events: asset write-downs; litigation or claim judgments or settlements; changes in tax law, accounting principles or other such laws or provisions affecting reported results; severance, contract termination and other costs related to exiting certain business activities; and gains or losses from the disposition of businesses or assets or from the early extinguishment of debt.
(u) "Person" shall mean any individual or entity, including a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture or trust.
(v) "Plan" shall mean this Amended and Restated 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.
(w) "Qualifying Termination" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in any applicable Award Agreement, and, if not defined in any applicable Award Agreement, shall mean termination of employment under circumstances that, in the judgment of the Committee, warrant acceleration of the exercisability of Options or SARs or the lapse of restrictions relating to Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or other Awards under the Plan. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, a Qualifying Termination may apply to large scale terminations of employment relating to the disposition or divestiture of business or legal entities or similar circumstances.
(x) "Restricted Stock" shall mean any Share granted under Section 6(c) of the Plan.
 
(y) "Restricted Stock Unit" shall mean any unit granted under Section 6(c) of the Plan evidencing the right to receive a Share (or a cash payment equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share) at some future date.
(z) "Rule 16b-3" shall mean Rule 16b-3 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Exchange Act or any successor rule or regulation.
(aa) "Section 162(m)" shall mean Section 162(m) of the Code, or any successor provision, and the applicable Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
(bb) "Section 409A" shall mean Section 409A of the Code, or any successor provision, and applicable Treasury Regulations and other applicable guidance thereunder
(cc) "Share" or "Shares" shall mean a share or shares of common stock, $.01 par value per share, of the Company or such other securities or property as may become subject to Awards pursuant to an adjustment made under Section 4(c) of the Plan.
(dd) "Specified Employee" shall mean an employee who is a specified employee for purposes of Code Section 409A as defined in the separate document entitled "U.S. Bank Specified Employee Determination."
(ee) "Stock Appreciation Right" shall mean any right granted under Section 6(b) of the Plan.
(ff) "Stock Award" shall mean any Share granted under Section 6(f) of the Plan.
Section 3. Administration
(a) . The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. Subject to the express provisions of the Plan and to applicable law, the Committee shall have full power and authority to: (i) designate Participants; (ii) determine the type or types of Awards to be granted to each Participant under the Plan; (iii) determine the number of Shares to be covered by (or the method by which payments or other rights are to be calculated in connection with) each Award; (iv) determine the terms and conditions of any Award or Award Agreement; (v) amend the terms and conditions of any Award or Award Agreement, , that, except as otherwise permitted in connection with an event as provided under Section 4(c) hereof, the Committee shall not reprice, adjust or amend the exercise price of Options or the grant price of Stock Appreciation Rights previously awarded to any Participant, whether through amendment, cancellation and replacement grant, or any other means; (vi) accelerate the exercisability of any Award or waive any restrictions relating to any Award, , that, except as otherwise provided herein, any such acceleration of exercisability or lapse of restrictions shall be limited to accelerations relating to a Change in Control, a Qualifying Termination, death or disability; (vii) determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances Awards may be exercised in cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards or other property, or canceled, forfeited or suspended; (viii) determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards, other property and other amounts payable with respect to an Award under the Plan shall be deferred either automatically or at the election of the holder of the Award or the Committee; (ix) interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement, including any Award Agreement, relating to the Plan; (x) establish, amend, suspend or waive such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it shall deem appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan; (xi) make any other determination and take any other action that the Committee deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan; and (xii) adopt such modifications, rules, procedures, and subplans as may be necessary or desirable to comply with provisions of the laws of non-U.S. jurisdictions in which the Company or an Affiliate may operate, including, without limitation, establishing any special rules for Affiliates, Eligible Persons or Participants located in any particular country, in order to meet the objectives of the Plan and to ensure the viability of the intended benefits of Awards granted to Participants located in such non-United States jurisdictions. Unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, all designations, determinations, interpretations and other decisions under or with respect to the Plan or any Award or Award Agreement shall be within the sole discretion of the Committee, may be made at any time and shall be final, conclusive and binding upon any Participant, any holder or beneficiary of any Award or Award Agreement, and any employee of the Company or any Affiliate.
Power and Authority of the Committee
provided, however
provided, however
(b) . The Committee may delegate its powers and duties under the Plan to one or more Directors (including a Director who is also an officer of the Company) or a committee of Directors, subject to such terms,
Delegation
 
conditions and limitations as the Committee may establish in its sole discretion; , that the Committee shall not delegate its powers and duties under the Plan (i) with regard to officers or directors of the Company or any Affiliate who are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act or (ii) in such a manner as would cause the Plan not to comply with the requirements of Section 162(m). In addition, the Committee may authorize one or more officers of the Company to grant Options under the Plan, subject to the limitations of Section 157 of the Delaware General Corporation Law; , that such officers shall not be authorized to grant Options to officers or directors of the Company or any Affiliate who are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
provided, however
provided, however
(c) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Board may, at any time and from time to time, without any further action of the Committee, exercise the powers and duties of the Committee under the Plan, unless the exercise of such powers and duties by the Board would cause the Plan not to comply with the requirements of Section 162(m).
Power and Authority of the Board
Section 4. Shares Available for Awards
(a) . Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4(c) of the Plan, the aggregate number of Shares that may be issued under all Awards under the Plan shall be 120,000,000. Shares to be issued under the Plan will be authorized but unissued Shares or Shares that have been reacquired by the Company and designated as treasury shares. If any Shares covered by an Award or to which an Award relates are not purchased or are forfeited (including shares of Restricted Stock, whether or not dividends have been paid on such shares), or if an Award otherwise terminates or is cancelled without delivery of any Shares, then the number of Shares counted pursuant to Section 4(b) of the Plan against the aggregate number of Shares available under the Plan with respect to such Award, to the extent of any such forfeiture, termination or cancellation, shall again be available for granting Awards under the Plan. Shares tendered by Participants as full or partial payment to the Company upon exercise of an Award, and Shares withheld by or otherwise remitted to the Company to satisfy a Participant's tax withholding obligations with respect to an Award, shall not become available for issuance under the Plan.
Shares Available
(b) . For purposes of this Section 4, if an Award entitles the holder thereof to receive or purchase Shares, the number of Shares covered by such Award or to which such Award relates shall be counted on the date of grant of such Award against the aggregate number of Shares available for granting Awards under the Plan. For Stock Appreciation Rights settled in Shares upon exercise, the aggregate number of Shares with respect to which the Stock Appreciation Right is exercised, rather than the number of Shares actually issued upon exercise, shall be counted against the number of Shares available for Awards under the Plan. Awards that do not entitle the holder thereof to receive or purchase Shares, and Awards that are denominated at the time of grant as payable only in cash and that are settled in cash, shall not be counted against the aggregate number of Shares available for Awards under the Plan. If performance awards granted under the Company's executive incentive plans are payable in Shares, such Shares may be issued under this Plan and shall be counted against the aggregate number of Shares available for granting Awards under the Plan.
Accounting for Awards
(c) . In the event that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Shares, other securities or other property), stock split or a combination or consolidation of the outstanding Shares into a lesser number of shares, is declared with respect to the Shares, the authorization limits under Sections 4(a) and 4(d) shall be increased or decreased proportionately, and the Shares then subject to each Award shall be increased or decreased proportionately without any change in the aggregate purchase price therefor. In the event the Shares shall be changed into or exchanged for a different number or class of shares of stock or securities of the Company or of another corporation, whether through recapitalization, reorganization, reclassification, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase or exchange of Shares or other securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase Shares or other securities of the Company, or any other similar corporate transaction or event affects the Shares such that an equitable adjustment would be required in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan, then the authorization limits under Sections 4(a) and 4(d) shall be adjusted proportionately, and an equitable adjustment shall be made to each Share subject to an Award such that no dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits occurs. Each such Share then subject to each Award shall be adjusted to the number and class of shares into which each outstanding Share shall be so exchanged such that no dilution or enlargement of the benefits occurs, all without change in the aggregate purchase price for the Shares then subject to each Award. Action by the Committee pursuant to this Section 4(c) may include adjustment to any or all of: (i) the number and type of Shares (or other securities or other property) that thereafter may be made the subject of Awards or be delivered under the Plan; (ii) the number and
Adjustments
 
type of Shares (or other securities or other property) subject to outstanding Awards; (iii) the purchase price or exercise price of a Share under any outstanding Award or the measure to be used to determine the amount of the benefit payable on an Award; and (iv) any other adjustments the Committee determines to be equitable.
(d) 
Award Limitations Under the Plan
(i) . The number of Shares available for granting any types of Awards other than Awards of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights shall not exceed 34,000,000, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4(c) hereof; , that any Shares covered by an Award that is not an Option or Stock Appreciation Right that are forfeited shall again be available for purposes of the foregoing limitations.
Plan Limitation on Awards other than Awards of Options and Stock Appreciation Rights
provided, however
(ii) . No Eligible Person may be granted any Award or Awards under the Plan, the value of which Award or Awards is based solely on an increase in the value of the Shares after the date of grant of such Award or Awards in excess of 5,000,000 Shares (subject to adjustment as provided for in Section 4(c) of the Plan), in the aggregate in any taxable year.
Section 162(m) Limitation for Certain Types of Awards
(iii) . No Eligible Person may be granted Performance Awards under the Plan in excess of 800,000 Shares (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4(c) of the Plan) in the aggregate in any taxable year. The limitation contained in this Section 4(d)(iii) does not apply to any Award subject to the limitation contained in Section 4(d)(ii). The limitation contained in this Section 4(d)(iii) shall apply only with respect to Awards granted under this Plan, and limitations on awards granted under any other stockholder approved executive incentive plan maintained by the Company will be governed solely by the terms of such other plan.
Section 162(m) Limitation for Performance Awards
Section 5. Eligibility
Any Eligible Person shall be eligible to be designated a Participant. In determining which Eligible Persons shall receive an Award and the terms of any Award, the Committee may take into account the nature of the services rendered by the respective Eligible Persons, their present and potential contributions to the success of the Company or such other factors as the Committee, in its discretion, shall deem relevant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Incentive Stock Option may only be granted to full-time or part-time employees (which term as used herein includes, without limitation, officers and Directors who are also employees), and an Incentive Stock Option shall not be granted to an employee of an Affiliate unless such Affiliate is also a "subsidiary corporation" of the Company within the meaning of Section 424(f) of the Code or any successor provision.
Section 6. Awards
(a) . The Committee is hereby authorized to grant Options to Eligible Persons with the following terms and conditions and with such additional terms and conditions not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan as the Committee shall determine:
Options
(i) . The purchase price per Share purchasable under an Option shall be determined by the Committee and shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant of such Option, , the Committee may designate a purchase price below Fair Market Value on the date of grant if the Option is granted in substitution for a stock option previously granted by an entity that is acquired or merged with the Company or an Affiliate.
Exercise Price
provided, however
(ii) . The term of each Option shall be fixed by the Committee but shall not be longer than 10 years from the date of grant.
Option Term
(iii) . The Committee shall determine the time or times at which an Option may be exercised in whole or in part and the method or methods by which, and the form or forms (including, without limitation, cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards or other property, or any combination thereof, having a Fair Market Value on the exercise date equal to the applicable exercise price) in which, payment of the exercise price with respect thereto may be made or deemed to have been made.
Time and Method of Exercise
 
(b) . The Committee is hereby authorized to grant Stock Appreciation Rights to Eligible Persons subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement. A Stock Appreciation Right granted under the Plan shall confer on the holder thereof a right to receive upon exercise thereof the excess of (i) the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of exercise (or, if the Committee shall so determine, at any time during a specified period before or after the date of exercise) over (ii) the grant price of the Stock Appreciation Right as specified by the Committee, which price shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of grant of the Stock Appreciation Right. Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, the grant price, term, methods of exercise, dates of exercise, methods of settlement and any other terms and conditions of any Stock Appreciation Right shall be as determined by the Committee. The Committee may impose such conditions or restrictions on the exercise of any Stock Appreciation Right as it may deem appropriate.
Stock Appreciation Rights
(c) . The Committee is hereby authorized to grant Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units to Eligible Persons with the following terms and conditions and with such additional terms and conditions not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan as the Committee shall determine:
Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units
(i) . Shares of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to such restrictions as the Committee may impose (including, without limitation, any limitation on the right to vote a Share of Restricted Stock or the right to receive any dividend or other right or property with respect thereto), which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such time or times, in such installments or otherwise as the Committee may deem appropriate.
Restrictions
(ii) . Any Restricted Stock granted under the Plan shall be issued at the time such Awards are granted and may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee may deem appropriate, including book-entry registration or issuance of a stock certificate or certificates, which certificate or certificates shall be held by the Company. Such certificate or certificates shall be registered in the name of the Participant and shall bear an appropriate legend referring to the restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock. Shares representing Restricted Stock that is no longer subject to restrictions shall be delivered to the Participant promptly after the applicable restrictions lapse or are waived. In the case of Restricted Stock Units, no Shares shall be issued at the time such Awards are granted. Upon the lapse or waiver of restrictions and the restricted period relating to Restricted Stock Units evidencing the right to receive Shares, such Shares shall be issued and delivered to the holder of the Restricted Stock Units.
Issuance and Delivery of Shares
(iii) . Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, upon a Participant's termination of employment or resignation or removal as a Director (in either case, as determined under criteria established by the Committee) during the applicable restriction period, all Shares of Restricted Stock and all Restricted Stock Units held by the Participant at such time shall be forfeited and reacquired by the Company; , that the Committee may, when it finds that a waiver would be in the best interest of the Company, waive in whole or in part any or all remaining restrictions with respect to Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.
Forfeiture
provided, however
(d) . The Committee is hereby authorized to grant Performance Awards to Eligible Persons subject to the terms of the Plan. A Performance Award granted under the Plan (i) may be denominated or payable in cash, Shares (including, without limitation, Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units), other securities, other Awards or other property and (ii) shall confer on the holder thereof the right to receive payments, in whole or in part, upon the achievement of such performance goals during such performance periods as the Committee shall establish. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the performance goals to be achieved during any performance period, the length of any performance period, the amount of any Performance Award granted, the amount of any payment or transfer to be made pursuant to any Performance Award and any other terms and conditions of any Performance Award shall be determined by the Committee. Performance Awards denominated in Shares (including, without limitation, Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units) that are granted to Eligible Persons who may be "covered employees" under Section 162(m) and that are intended to be "qualified performance based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m), to the extent required by Section 162(m), shall be conditioned solely on the achievement of one or more objective Performance Goals established by the Committee within the time prescribed by Section 162(m), and shall otherwise comply with the requirements of Section 162(m).
Performance Awards
(e) . The Committee is hereby authorized to grant Dividend Equivalents to Eligible Persons under which the Participant shall be entitled to receive payments (in cash, Shares, other securities, other
Dividend Equivalents
 
Awards or other property as determined in the discretion of the Committee) equivalent to the amount of cash dividends paid by the Company to holders of Shares with respect to a number of Shares determined by the Committee. Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, such Dividend Equivalents may have such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may not grant Dividend Equivalents to Eligible Persons in connection with grants of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights to such Eligible Persons.
(f) . The Committee is hereby authorized to grant to Eligible Persons Shares without restrictions thereon, as deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purpose of the Plan. Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, such Stock Awards may have such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine.
Stock Awards
(g) . The Committee is hereby authorized to grant to Eligible Persons such other Awards that are denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, Shares (including, without limitation, securities convertible into Shares), as are deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purpose of the Plan. The Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of any Other Stock Based Awards, subject to the terms of the Plan and the Award Agreement. Any consideration paid by the Participant with respect to any Other Stock Based Awards may be paid by such method or methods and in such form or forms (including, without limitation, cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards or other property, or any combination thereof), as the Committee shall determine.
Other Stock-Based Awards
(h) .
General
(i) . Awards may be granted for no cash consideration or for any cash or other consideration as determined by the Committee or required by applicable law.
Consideration for Awards
(ii) . Awards may, in the discretion of the Committee, be granted either alone or in addition to, in tandem with or in substitution for any other Award or any award granted under any other plan of the Company or any Affiliate. Awards granted in addition to or in tandem with other Awards or in addition to or in tandem with awards granted under any other plan of the Company or any Affiliate may be granted either at the same time as or at a different time from the grant of such other Awards or awards.
Awards May Be Granted Separately or Together
(iii) . Subject to the terms of the Plan and of any applicable Award Agreement, payments or transfers to be made by the Company or an Affiliate upon the grant, exercise or payment of an Award may be made in such form or forms as the Committee shall determine (including, without limitation, cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards or other property or any combination thereof), and may be made in a single payment or transfer, in installments, in each case in accordance with rules and procedures established by the Committee. Such rules and procedures may include, without limitation, provisions for the payment or crediting of reasonable interest on installment or deferred payments or the grant or crediting of Dividend Equivalents with respect to installment or deferred payments.
Forms of Payment under Awards
(iv) . The term of each Award shall be for such period as may be determined by the Committee at the time of grant, but in no event shall any Award have a term of more than 10 years.
Term of Awards
(v) . Except as otherwise provided by the Committee or the terms of this Plan, no Award (other than Stock Awards) and no right under any such Award shall be transferable by a Participant other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. The Committee may establish procedures as it deems appropriate for a Participant to designate a Person or Persons, as beneficiary or beneficiaries, to exercise the rights of the Participant and receive any property distributable with respect to any Award in the event of the Participant's death. The Committee, in its discretion and subject to such additional terms and conditions as it determines, may permit a Participant to transfer a Non-Qualified Stock Option to any "family member" (as such term is defined in the General Instructions to Form S-8 (or any successor to such Instructions or such Form) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which definition currently includes certain family partnerships, foundations, trusts and other entities controlled by family members), at any time that such Participant holds such Option, provided that such transfers may not be transfers for value (as defined in the General Instructions to Form S-8, or any successor to such Instructions or such Form) and the family
Limits on Transfer of Awards
 
member may not make any subsequent transfers other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Each Award under the Plan or right under any such Award shall be exercisable during the Participant's lifetime only by the Participant (except as provided herein or in an Award Agreement or amendment thereto relating to a Non-Qualified Stock Option) or, if permissible under applicable law, by the Participant's guardian or legal representative. No Award (other than a Stock Award) or right under any such Award may be pledged, alienated, attached or otherwise encumbered, and any purported pledge, alienation, attachment or encumbrance thereof shall be void and unenforceable against the Company or any Affiliate.
(vi) . All Shares or other securities delivered under the Plan pursuant to any Award or the exercise thereof shall be subject to such restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the Plan, applicable federal or state securities laws and regulatory requirements, and the Committee may cause appropriate entries to be made or legends to be placed on the certificates for such Shares or other securities to reflect such restrictions. If the Shares or other securities are traded on a securities exchange, the Company shall not be required to deliver any Shares or other securities covered by an Award unless and until such Shares or other securities have been admitted for trading on such securities exchange.
Restrictions; Securities Exchange Listing
(vii) . Notwithstanding anything in the Plan or any Award Agreement to the contrary, to the extent that any amount or benefit that constitutes "deferred compensation" to a Participant under Section 409A of the Code and applicable guidance thereunder is otherwise payable or distributable to a Participant under the Plan or any Award Agreement solely by reason of the occurrence of a Change in Control or due to the Participant's disability or "separation from service" (as such term is defined under Section 409A), such amount or benefit will not be payable or distributable to the Participant by reason of such circumstance unless the Committee determines in good faith that (i) the circumstances giving rise to such Change in Control, disability or separation from service meet the definition of a change in ownership or control, disability, or separation from service, as the case may be, in Section 409A(a)(2)(A) of the Code and applicable proposed or final regulations, or (ii) the payment or distribution of such amount or benefit would be exempt from the application of Section 409A by reason of the short-term deferral exemption or otherwise. Any payment or distribution that otherwise would be made to a Participant who is a Specified Employee (as determined by the Committee in good faith) on account of separation from service may not be made before the date which is six (6) months after the date of the Specified Employee's separation from service unless the payment or distribution is exempt from the application of Section 409A by reason of the short term deferral exemption or otherwise.
Section 409A Provisions
Section 7. Amendment and Termination; Corrections
(a) . The Board may amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate the Plan at any time; , that, notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or any Award Agreement, prior approval of the stockholders of the Company shall be required for any amendment to the Plan that:
Amendments to the Plan
provided, however
(i) requires stockholder approval under the rules or regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the New York Stock Exchange or any other securities exchange that are applicable to the Company;
(ii) increases the number of shares authorized under the Plan as specified in Section 4(a) of the Plan;
(iii) increases the number of shares subject to the limitations contained in Section 4(d) of the Plan;
(iv) permits repricing of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, which is prohibited by Section 3(a)(v) of the Plan;
(v) permits the award of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights at a price less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant of such Option or Stock Appreciation Right, contrary to the provisions of Sections 6(a)(i) and 6(b)(ii) of the Plan; or
(vi) would cause Section 162(m) to become unavailable with respect to the Plan.
(b) . Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee may waive any conditions of or rights of the Company under any outstanding Award, prospectively or retroactively. Except as otherwise
Amendments to Awards
 
provided in the Plan, the Committee may amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate any outstanding Award, prospectively or retroactively, but no such action may adversely affect the rights of the holder of such Award without the consent of the Participant or holder or beneficiary thereof. The Company intends that Awards under the Plan shall satisfy the requirements of Section 409A to avoid any adverse tax results thereunder, and the Committee shall administer and interpret the Plan and all Award Agreements in a manner consistent with that intent. If any provision of the Plan or an Award Agreement would result in adverse tax consequences under Section 409A, the Committee may amend that provision (or take any other action reasonably necessary) to avoid any adverse tax results and no action taken to comply with Section 409A shall be deemed to impair or otherwise adversely affect the rights of any holder of an Award or beneficiary thereof.
(c) . The Committee may correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Award or Award Agreement in the manner and to the extent it shall deem desirable to implement or maintain the effectiveness of the Plan.
Correction of Defects, Omissions and Inconsistencies
Section 8. Income Tax Withholding
In order to comply with all applicable federal, state, local or foreign income tax laws or regulations, the Company may take such action as it deems appropriate to ensure that all applicable federal, state, local or foreign payroll, withholding, income or other taxes, which are the sole and absolute responsibility of a Participant, are withheld or collected from such Participant. In order to assist a Participant in paying all or a portion of the applicable taxes to be withheld or collected upon exercise or receipt of (or the lapse of restrictions relating to) an Award, the Committee, in its discretion and subject to such additional terms and conditions as it may adopt, may permit the Participant to satisfy such tax obligation by (a) electing to have the Company withhold a portion of the Shares otherwise to be delivered upon exercise or receipt of (or the lapse of restrictions relating to) such Award with a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes, or (b) delivering to the Company Shares other than Shares issuable upon exercise or receipt of (or the lapse of restrictions relating to) such Award with a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such taxes. The election, if any, must be made on or before the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is determined.
Section 9. General Provisions
(a) . No Eligible Person, Participant or other Person shall have any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan, and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Eligible Persons, Participants or holders or beneficiaries of Awards under the Plan. The terms and conditions of Awards need not be the same with respect to any Participant or with respect to different Participants.
No Rights to Awards
(b) . No Participant shall have rights under an Award granted to such Participant unless and until an Award Agreement shall have been duly executed on behalf of the Company, and, if requested by the Company, signed by the Participant, or until such Award Agreement is delivered and accepted through any electronic medium in accordance with procedures established by the Company.
Award Agreements
(c) . In the event that any provision of an Award Agreement conflicts with or is inconsistent in any respect with the terms of the Plan as set forth herein or subsequently amended, the terms of the Plan shall control.
Plan Provisions Control
(d) . Except with respect to Restricted Stock, Stock Awards, and certain types of stock-based Performance Awards, neither a Participant nor the Participant's legal representative shall be, or have any of the rights and privileges of, a stockholder of the Company with respect to any Shares issuable upon the exercise or payment of any Award, in whole or in part, unless and until the Shares have been issued.
No Rights of Stockholders
(e) . Nothing contained in the Plan shall prevent the Company or any Affiliate from adopting or continuing in effect other or additional compensation plans or arrangements, and such plans or arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
No Limit on Other Compensation Plans or Arrangements
(f) . The grant of an Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to be retained as an employee of the Company or any Affiliate, or a Director to be retained as a
No Right to Employment or Directorship
 
Director, nor will it affect in any way the right of the Company or an Affiliate to terminate a Participant's employment at any time, with or without cause, or remove a Director in accordance with applicable law. In addition, the Company or an Affiliate may at any time dismiss a Participant from employment or remove a Director who is a Participant free from any liability or any claim under the Plan or any Award, unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or in any Award Agreement.
(g) . The internal law, and not the law of conflicts, of the State of Delaware, shall govern all questions concerning the validity, construction and effect of the Plan or any Award, and any rules and regulations relating to the Plan or any Award.
Governing Law
(h) . If any provision of the Plan or any Award is or becomes or is deemed to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction or would disqualify the Plan or any Award under any law deemed applicable by the Committee, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to conform to applicable laws, or if it cannot be so construed or deemed amended without, in the determination of the Committee, materially altering the purpose or intent of the Plan or the Award, such provision shall be stricken as to such jurisdiction or Award, and the remainder of the Plan or any such Award shall remain in full force and effect.
Severability
(i) . Neither the Plan nor any Award shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or any Affiliate and a Participant or any other Person. To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company or any Affiliate.
No Trust or Fund Created
(j) . No compensation or benefit awarded to or realized by any Participant under the Plan shall be included for the purpose of computing such Participant's compensation or benefits under any pension, retirement, savings, profit sharing, group insurance, disability, welfare or other benefit plan of the Company, unless required by law or otherwise provided by such other plan.
Other Benefits
(k) . No fractional Shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award, and the Committee shall determine whether cash shall be paid in lieu of any fractional Share or whether such fractional Share or any rights thereto shall be canceled, terminated or otherwise eliminated.
No Fractional Shares
(l) . Headings are given to the sections and subsections of the Plan solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of the Plan or any provision thereof.
Headings
Section 10. Effective Date of the Plan
The Plan shall be subject to approval by the stockholders of the Company at the annual meeting of stockholders of the Company to be held on April 20, 2010, and the Plan shall be effective as of the date of such stockholder approval.
Section 11. Term of the Plan
Awards shall be granted under the Plan only during a 10-year period beginning on April 17, 2007, or if the Plan is terminated earlier pursuant to Section 7(a) of the Plan, during the period beginning on April 17, 2007 and ending on such date of termination of the Plan. However, unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or in an applicable Award Agreement, any Award theretofore granted may extend beyond such date, and the authority of the Committee provided for hereunder with respect to the Plan and any Awards, and the authority of the Board to amend the Plan, shall extend beyond the termination of the Plan.


