FILE:USB/USB-8K-20100422172646.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
On April 22, 2010, the Board of Directors of U.S. Bancorp (the "Company") announced that Terrance R. Dolan, 47, the Company's Executive Vice President and Controller, will succeed Diane L. Thormodsgard as the Company's Vice Chairman, Wealth Management and Securities Services, and Jeffry H. von Gillern, 44, the Company's Chief Information Officer, will succeed William L. Chenevich as the Company's Vice Chairman, Technology and Operations Services. The appointments are effective on July 1, 2010. Ms. Thormodsgard and Mr. Chenevich will retire on June 30, 2010.
A copy of the press release issued by the Company on April 22, 2010, announcing the retirements of Ms. Thormodsgard and Mr. Chenevich and the appointments of Mr. Dolan and Mr. von Gillern as their respective successors is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Additionally, Craig E. Gifford, 41, the Company's Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, will succeed Mr. Dolan as the Company's Controller effective July 1, 2010. Mr. Gifford has served as the Company's Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer since joining the Company in November 2008. Prior to joining the Company, he served as Guaranty Financial Group Inc.'s Controller from July 2003 until December 2007 and Executive Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer from January 2008 until October 2008.
The Company's 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders was held on Tuesday, April 20, 2010, at the Seattle Marriott Waterfront, Seattle, Washington. Richard K. Davis, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, presided. The Company's shareholders approved each of the four proposals detailed in the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 12, 2010.
Proposal I
The Company's shareholders elected thirteen individuals to the Board of Directors as set forth below:
 
Proposal II
The Company's shareholders ratified the selection of Ernst & Young LLP as the independent auditor of the Company and its subsidiaries for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010, as set forth below:
Proposal III
The Company's shareholders approved the U.S. Bancorp Amended and Restated 2007 Stock Incentive Plan as set forth below:
Proposal IV
The Company's shareholders gave advisory approval of the Company's executive compensation program as set forth below:
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 22, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
MINNEAPOLIS (April 22, 2010)  U.S. Bancorp (NYSE: USB) announced today that Terrance R. Dolan will succeed Diane L. Thormodsgard as vice chairman of Wealth Management and Securities Services, and Jeffry H. von Gillern will succeed William L. Chenevich as vice chairman of Technology and Operations Services. Both appointments are effective July 1, 2010. Thormodsgard and Chenevich are retiring effective June 30, 2010.
Dolan, 47, is currently executive vice president and controller of U.S. Bancorp and has held that position for 11 years.
Von Gillern, 44, is currently chief information officer of U.S. Bancorp and has been with the company for nine years.
Thormodsgard, 59, has served as vice chairman of U.S. Bancorp since 2007. She has been with U.S. Bancorp since 1978. She previously served as president of Corporate Trust and Institutional Trust and Custody.
Chenevich, 65, has served as vice chairman of U.S. Bancorp since 1999, when he joined the company.
"I want to thank Diane and Bill for their many years of dedicated service to U.S. Bancorp," said Richard K. Davis, chairman, president and CEO of U.S. Bancorp. "Their knowledge, commitment, leadership and innumerable accomplishments have significantly contributed to the strength, quality and overall success of our organization. They are both recognized industry leaders and are highly respected by all of their colleagues. I am immensely proud to have served on this management team with Diane and Bill. All of us at U.S. Bancorp wish them well in retirement."
Davis continued, "Terry and Jeff have both been a part of our company for many years and have aptly demonstrated their ability to step into these very important leadership roles. I am especially pleased that we were able to draw from our own team of talented leaders to find the right successors for the jobs. I look forward to working more closely with both of them as our company continues to grow and prosper."
Dolan and von Gillern will join the U.S. Bancorp managing committee, which consists of the 14 most senior executives in the company. In addition, Craig E. Gifford, currently senior vice president and chief accounting officer, will be named controller to succeed Dolan. Gifford joined the company in 2008.
 
Dolan has a bachelor's of arts degree in accounting from the University of St. Thomas and is a CPA. He serves on the board of directors of ArtSpace and the Steering Committee for Minnesota Schubert. He is married with two children.
Von Gillern has a bachelor's of science degree from the University of Arizona and is married with two children.
Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp, with $282 billion in assets, is the parent company of U.S. Bank National Association, the 5th largest commercial bank in the United States. The company operates 3,025 banking offices in 24 states and 5,312 ATMs, and provides a comprehensive line of banking, brokerage, insurance, investment, mortgage, trust and payment services products to consumers, businesses and institutions. Visit U.S. Bancorp on the web at usbank.com.


