FILE:USB/USB-8K-20110201160016.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
     On February 1, 2011, U.S. Bancorp (the "Company") closed the remarketing of $676,378,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.442% Remarketed Junior Subordinated Notes due 2016 (the "Remarketed Notes"). The remarketing was conducted pursuant to a Remarketing Agreement, dated as of January 27, 2011, among the Company, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as representative of the remarketing agents named therein (collectively, the "Remarketing Agents"), and USB Capital IX, a Delaware statutory trust (the "Trust"), acting through Wilmington Trust Company, a Delaware banking corporation, in its capacity as Property Trustee of the Trust (the "Property Trustee"), and a Pricing Agreement, dated as of January 27, 2011, between the Company and the Remarketing Agents. The Remarketed Notes were issued pursuant to a Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of April 28, 2005, as supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 17, 2006, the Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 10, 2010, and the Ninth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 1, 2011, between the Company and Wilmington Trust Company, as successor indenture trustee.
     The Remarketed Notes were originally issued to the Trust as 5.539% Remarketable Junior Subordinated Notes due 2042 in connection with the issuance of the Trust's 6.189% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Income Trust Securities, liquidation amount $1,000 per security, in March 2006. Net proceeds of approximately $676,760,944 were received by the Trust in connection with the remarketing, and are being held in an interest bearing deposit with U.S. Bank National Association, the proceeds of which will be used in part to satisfy the obligations of the Trust under the Amended and Restated Stock Purchase Agreement, dated as of June 10, 2010, between the Company and the Trust, acting through the Property Trustee, pursuant to which the Trust is obligated to purchase, and the Company is obligated to sell, on April 15, 2011, a total of 6,763.78 shares of the Company's Series A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, $100,000 liquidation preference per share. The remarketing of the Remarketed Notes was registered under an effective Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-150298), as thereby amended from time to time (as amended, the "Registration Statement").
     This report is also being filed for the purpose of filing as exhibits the documents listed in Item 9.01 below, which are hereby incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement.
(d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 1.1
EXECUTION VERSION
January 27, 2011
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.      As Representative for the Remarketing Agents      listed on Schedule A hereto c/o Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. 60 Wall Street New York, New York 10005
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     This Remarketing Agreement (the "") is among U.S. Bancorp, a Delaware corporation (the ""), Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. (""), as Representative for the Remarketing Agents listed on Schedule A hereto (the "," which expression shall include any institution(s) appointed as a Remarketing Agent in accordance with Section 7 hereof), and USB Capital IX, a Delaware statutory trust (the ""), acting through Wilmington Trust Company, a Delaware banking corporation, not in its individual capacity but solely as Property Trustee of the Trust (the "").
Remarketing Agreement
Company
Deutsche Bank
Remarketing Agents
Trust
Property Trustee
     The Remarketing Agents are undertaking to remarket $676,378,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's Remarketable Junior Subordinated Notes due 2042, the terms of which will be modified in the event of a Successful Remarketing (as defined below), as provided in the notice from the Company, dated December 29, 2010 (the ""), pursuant to Section 5.18 of the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, dated as of March 17, 2006 (the ""), by and among the Company, as Depositor, the Property Trustee, Wilmington Trust Company, as Delaware Trustee, the Administrative Trustees named therein and the several Holders of the Trust Securities (as defined therein), as supplemented by Amendment No. 1 to the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, dated as of June 10, 2010 (together with the Base Trust Agreement, the ""), and Section 3.2 of the Supplemental Indenture (as defined below) (such Remarketable Junior Subordinated Notes due 2042 as so modified from and after a Successful Remarketing (whether or not such securities were remarketed by the Remarketing Agents), the ""). The Securities were issued by the Company pursuant to a Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of April 28, 2005 (the ""), between the Company and Delaware Trust Company, National Association, a national banking association organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, as the original trustee (the ""), as supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 17, 2006 (the ""), and the Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 10, 2010 (the "" and, together with the Third Supplemental Indenture, the "," and the Supplemental Indenture, together with the Base Indenture, the ""), between the
Notice
Base Trust Agreement
Trust Agreement
Securities
Base Indenture
Original Trustee
Third Supplemental Indenture
Eighth Supplemental Indenture
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
 
Company and Wilmington Trust Company, a Delaware banking corporation, as successor trustee to the Original Trustee (the ""). The Securities were initially issued by the Company to the Trust. The modification of the terms of the Securities, if any, as specified in the Notice will be reflected by a Ninth Supplemental Indenture, to be dated as of the Remarketing Settlement Date (the ""), between the Company and the Trustee.
Trustee
New Supplemental Indenture
     Capitalized terms used and not defined in this Remarketing Agreement shall have the meanings set forth in the Transaction Documents (as defined below), as the case may be.
As used in this Remarketing Agreement,
     "" means such time as is specified as the "" in the Pricing Agreement or such other time as agreed by the Company and the Remarketing Agents.
Applicable Time
Applicable Time
     "" means the base prospectus relating to the Remarketed Securities included in the Registration Statement in the form in which it has most recently been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") and became effective on or prior to the date of the Pricing Agreement.
Basic Prospectus
Commission
     "" means any "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), relating to the Remarketed Securities that (i) is required to be filed with the Commission by the Company, (ii) is a "road show that is a written communication" within the meaning of Rule 433(d)(8)(i) whether or not required to be filed with the Commission or (iii) is exempt from filing pursuant to Rule 433(d)(5)(i) because it contains a description of the Remarketed Securities or of the offering that does not reflect the final terms, in each case in the form filed or required to be filed with the Commission or, if not required to be filed, in the form retained in the records of the Company pursuant to Rule 433(g).
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
Securities Act
     "" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is intended for general distribution to prospective investors, as evidenced by its being specified in Annex I to this Remarketing Agreement.
Issuer General Use Free Writing Prospectus
     "" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not an Issuer General Use Free Writing Prospectus.
Issuer Limited Use Free Writing Prospectus
     "" means the Preliminary Prospectus, the final term sheet relating to the Remarketed Securities set forth as Annex I to the Pricing Agreement and any Issuer General Use Free Writing Prospectus(es) all considered together.
General Disclosure Package
     "" means the prospectus supplement, dated the date of the Pricing Agreement, relating to the Remarketed Securities and the final base prospectus, collectively, in the form first furnished to the Remarketing Agents for use in connection with the offering of the Remarketed Securities, including the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act at the time of the execution of the Pricing Agreement.
Prospectus
 
     "" means the preliminary prospectus supplement, dated January 27, 2011, relating to the Remarketed Securities and the final base prospectus, collectively, in the form first furnished to the Remarketing Agents for use in connection with the offering of the Remarketed Securities, including the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act at the time of the execution of the Pricing Agreement.
Preliminary Prospectus
     "" means the Pricing Agreement relating to the Remarketed Securities, to be entered into by the Company and the Remarketing Agents, which shall incorporate by reference all of the provisions of this Remarketing Agreement in their entirety as if such provisions had been set forth in full therein.
Pricing Agreement
     "" means the automatic shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-150298) relating to, , the Remarketed Securities, at any given time, including the amendments thereto to such time, the exhibits and any schedules thereto at such time, the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act at such time and the documents otherwise deemed to be a part thereof or included therein by the rules and regulations under the Securities Act.
Registration Statement
inter alia
     "" means the Securities subject to the Remarketing as notified to the Remarketing Agents by the Collateral Agent, on or prior to the first business day prior to the date hereof.
Remarketed Securities
     "" means the procedures in connection with the Remarketing as described in the Transaction Documents.
Remarketing Procedures
     "" means the remarketing of the Remarketed Securities pursuant to the Remarketing Procedures.
Remarketing
     "" means the period beginning January 26, 2011 and ending on the earlier of March 10, 2011 or the settlement of a Successful Remarketing.
Remarketing Period
     "" means the third business day following the completion of a Successful Remarketing.
Remarketing Settlement Date
     "" means, if the Securities are remarketed as fixed rate notes, the rate of interest, if any, set in a Remarketing, as specified in Section 3.3(a) of the Supplemental Indenture.
Reset Rate
     "" means, if the Securities are remarketed as floating rate notes, the spread, if any, set in a Remarketing, as specified in Section 3.3(a) of the Supplemental Indenture.
Reset Spread
     "" shall mean, collectively, the Indenture, the Trust Agreement, the Amended and Restated Collateral Agreement, dated as of June 10, 2010 (the ""), among the Company, U.S. Bank National Association, as Collateral Agent (the ""), Custodial Agent (the ""),
Transaction Documents
Collateral Agreement
Collateral Agent
Custodial Agent
 
Securities Intermediary and Securities Registrar (the ""), and the Trust, acting through the Property Trustee, and the Amended and Restated Stock Purchase Contract Agreement, dated as of June 10, 2010 (the ""), between the Company and the Trust, acting through the Property Trustee.
Registrar
Stock Purchase Contract Agreement
     All references herein to the Registration Statement, the Basic Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement to any of the foregoing shall (A) be deemed to include the copy filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system ("") and (B) include in each case the material, if any, incorporated by reference therein as of its effective time, in the case of the Registration Statement and the Basic Prospectus, and as of the date of such prospectus, in the case of the Prospectus or Preliminary Prospectus. Any reference to any amendment or supplement to the Basic Prospectus, Prospectus or Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include any document incorporated by reference after the date of such Basic Prospectus or any Prospectus or Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be.
EDGAR
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE A
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC U.S. Bancorp Investments, Inc.
 
ANNEX I
 
ANNEX II
     a. The Company is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation and is in good standing in each U.S. jurisdiction in which its ownership or lease of substantial properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except where the failure to so qualify would not have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
     b. U.S. Bank National Association is lawfully able to transact business in each jurisdiction in which it owns or leases substantial properties or conducts business, except for the jurisdictions in which the failure to be lawfully able to conduct business would not have a material adverse effect on U.S. Bank National Association and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole .
     c. There are no pending or, to the best of such counsel's knowledge, overtly threatened lawsuits or claims against the Company or its subsidiaries which are required to be disclosed in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus that are not disclosed as required.
     d. To the best of such counsel's knowledge, there are no legal or governmental proceedings pending or threatened against the Trust or to which the Trust or any of its property is subject, that are required to be described in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus that are not described as required and there are no agreements, contracts, indentures, leases or other instruments of the Trust that are required to be described in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus that are not described as required.
     e. To the best of such counsel's knowledge, no restraining order, injunction or denial of an application for approval has been issued, and no legal or governmental proceedings are pending or threatened, by or before the Commission or any other government agency (including any court) with respect to the Transactions.
     f. The Transactions will not conflict with or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any subsidiary pursuant to any contract, indenture, mortgage, loan agreement, note, lease or other instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject and that is material to the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
 
ANNEX III
     1. The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
     2. U.S. Bank National Association has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a national banking association in good standing under the laws of the United States, and has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
     3. The Remarketing Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a legal, valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to (i) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer and other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect, and (ii) general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and except that the rights of indemnification and contribution thereunder may be limited by applicable Federal and state securities laws.
     4. The issuance of the Securities has been duly authorized and the Securities have been duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered and constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by (i) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer and other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect, and (ii) general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; and the Securities will be substantially in the form contemplated by the Indenture and will conform in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Preliminary Prospectus, the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
     5. The issuance of the Remarketed Securities has been duly authorized and the Remarketed Securities have been duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered and constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by (i) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer and other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect, and (ii) general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and will be entitled to the benefits provided by the Indenture; and the Remarketed Securities will be substantially in the form contemplated by the Indenture and will conform in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Preliminary Prospectus, the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
 
     6. Each of Transaction Documents has been duly and validly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its respective terms, subject to (i) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer and other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect, and (ii) general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
     7. The New Supplemental Indenture has been duly and validly authorized by the Company and, when the New Supplemental Indenture has been duly executed and delivered by the Company on the Remarketing Settlement Date, will constitute a legal, valid and binding obligation enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by (A) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer and other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect, and (B) general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
     8. Each of the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, as of its respective date, appears on its face to comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
     9. The Registration Statement has been declared effective under the Securities Act; any required filing of each prospectus relating to the Securities (including the Prospectus) pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act has been made in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act (without reference to Rule 424(b)(8) under the Securities Act); any required filing of each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus pursuant to Rule 433 under the Securities Act has been made in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act; and, to the best of our knowledge, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or threatened by the Commission.
     10. The Registration Statement, including without limitation the Rule 430B Information, the Prospectus, excluding the documents incorporated by reference therein, and each amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, excluding the documents incorporated by reference therein, as of their respective effective or issue dates (including without limitation each deemed effective date with respect to the Remarketing Agents pursuant to Rule 430B(f)(2) under the Securities Act), other than the financial statements, supporting schedules and other financial data included or incorporated by reference therein or omitted therefrom, and any Trustee's Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 (each a "Form T-1"), as to which such counsel need express no opinion complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
     11. The Exchange Act reports incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (other than the financial statements, including the notes and schedules thereto and the audit reports thereon, or any other financial and
 
statistical data set forth or referred to therein or any document incorporated by reference therein or omitted therefrom, or any exhibits thereto, as to which such counsel need not express any belief), when they were filed with the Commission, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder; and such counsel has no reason to believe that any of such documents, when they were so filed, as of its date contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made when such documents were so filed, not misleading.
     12. The Transactions have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary corporate action by the Company and no other corporate proceedings by the Company are necessary to authorize any such actions.
     13. The Company has all the necessary power and authority to execute, deliver and perform the Remarketing Agreement, the Securities, the New Supplemental Indenture and the Transaction Documents, and to consummate the transactions therein contemplated.
     14. The Transactions will not result in a violation of any federal or state law nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or bylaws of the Company or the articles of association or bylaws of U.S. Bank National Association.
     15. The Transactions will not violate, to the best knowledge of such counsel, any agreement or instrument binding upon the Company or the Trust or any judgment, order or decree of any governmental body, agency or court having jurisdiction over the Company or the Trust, except such contravention as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or other), business, properties, net worth or results of operations of the Company or the Trust.
     16. No consent, approval, license, authorization, or order of, or filing or registration with, any federal court or federal government authority or agency is required for the performance by the Trust of the Remarketing Agreement, the Transaction Documents or the New Supplemental Indenture, or the consummation by the Company or the Trust of the transactions herein and therein contemplated, except such as may be required under state securities or Blue Sky laws and except such as have been made or obtained or will be made or obtained from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
     17. The statements set forth in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under the captions "Description of the Remarketed Notes" and "Relationship of the Normal ITS to the Remarketing" insofar as such statements purport to summarize certain provisions of the documents referred to therein, fairly summarize such provisions in all material respects.
     18. The statements set forth in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under the captions "Certain United States Federal Income Tax Consequences" and "Benefit Plan Investor Considerations" insofar as such statements refer to statements of law or legal conclusions, fairly summarize the matters referred to therein in all material respects.
     19. To the best of such counsel's knowledge, there are no contracts, indentures, mortgages, loan agreements, notes, leases or other instruments required to be described or
 
referred to in the General Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or filed as exhibits to the Registration Statement other than those described or referred to therein or incorporated by reference and the description thereof or references thereto are correct.
     20. Neither the Company nor the Trust is, and as a result of the Transactions, including, but not limited to, the Remarketing of the Remarketed Securities as contemplated in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, will be, an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
     Such counsel shall also have furnished to the Remarketing Agents a written statement, addressed to the Remarketing Agents and dated the Remarketing Settlement Date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Remarketing Agents, to the effect that (x) such counsel has acted as counsel to the Company in connection with the preparation of the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package, the Prospectus and the documents incorporated by reference therein and in the course of preparation of those documents such counsel has participated in conferences with representatives of the Company and with representatives of Ernst & Young LLP and (y) based upon such counsel's examination of the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package, the Prospectus and the documents incorporated by reference therein, such counsel's investigations made in connection with the preparation of the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package, the Prospectus and the documents incorporated by reference therein and such counsel's participation in the conferences referred to above, such counsel has no reason to believe that: (i) the Registration Statement (other than the financial statements, including the notes and schedules thereto and the audit reports thereon, or any other financial and statistical data set forth or referred to therein or any document incorporated by reference therein or omitted therefrom, or any exhibits thereto, as to which such counsel need not express any belief), as of its effective date and each deemed effective date with respect to the Remarketing Agents pursuant to Rule 430B(f) under the Securities Act, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or (ii) the Prospectus (other than the financial statements, including the notes and schedules thereto and the audit reports thereon, or any other financial and statistical data set forth or referred to therein or any document incorporated by reference therein or omitted therefrom, or any exhibits thereto, as to which such counsel need not express any belief) as of its date and as of the Remarketing Settlement Date, contained or contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. In addition, nothing has come to such counsel's attention that would lead such counsel to believe that the documents included in the General Disclosure Package (other than the financial statements, including the notes and schedules thereto and the audit reports thereon, or any other financial and statistical data set forth or referred to therein or any document incorporated by reference therein or omitted therefrom, or any exhibits thereto, as to which such counsel need not express any belief), as of the Applicable Time, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. With respect to statements contained in the General Disclosure Package, any statement contained in any of the constituent documents shall be deemed to be modified or superseded to the extent that any information contained in subsequent constituent documents modifies or replaces such statement.
 
ANNEX IV
Date
[New Remarketing Agent] [Address]
Dear Sirs,
Remarketing of the Remarketable Junior Subordinated Notes due 2042 of U.S. Bancorp (CUSIP: [ ]) (the "
 - 
Remarketed Securities
")
     The undersigned refers to the Remarketing Agreement, dated as January 27, 2011, (the "") among ourselves as the Company, Wilmington Trust Company, as Property Trustee (the ""), and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. as Representative for the Remarketing Agents listed on Schedule A to the Remarketing Agreement, as Remarketing Agents, and have the pleasure of inviting you to become a Remarketing Agent subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Remarketing Agreement, a copy of which has been supplied to you by us. In addition, we enclose letters entitling you to rely on the original letters referred to in Section 5 of the Remarketing Agreement, as such letters may have been amended or supplemented, together with copies of such original, amended or supplemented letters. Please return to the Company a copy of this letter signed by an authorized signatory whereupon you will become the Remarketing Agent for the purposes of the Remarketing Agreement with all the authority, rights, powers, duties and obligations of a Remarketing Agent under the Remarketing Agreement.
Remarketing Agreement
Property Trustee
     This letter is governed by, and shall be construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York. The provisions of Sections 14 and 15 of the Remarketing Agreement shall apply to this letter as if set out herein in full.
Yours faithfully,
 
Acknowledged as of the date hereof:
USB CAPITAL IX
By: WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY, not individually but solely as Property Trustee
 
CONFIRMATION
     We hereby accept the appointment as a Remarketing Agent and accept all of the duties and obligations under, and the terms and conditions of the Remarketing Agreement upon the terms of this letter.
     We confirm that we are in receipt of all the documents which we have requested and have found them to be satisfactory.
     For the purposes of the Remarketing Agreement our communications details are as set out below.
Copies to:
     The Property Trustee.

EXHIBIT 1.2
January 27, 2011
The Remarketing Agents listed on Schedule I
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Reference is made to the Remarketing Agreement, dated as of January 27, 2011 (the ""), among U.S. Bancorp, a Delaware corporation (the ""), Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. (""), as Representative for the Remarketing Agents listed on Schedule A thereto (the "," which expression shall include any institution(s) appointed as a Remarketing Agent in accordance with Section 7 thereof), and USB Capital IX, a Delaware statutory trust (the ""), acting through Wilmington Trust Company, a Delaware banking corporation, not in its individual capacity but solely as Property Trustee of the Trust (the ""), in connection with the remarketing of the securities specified in Schedule II hereto (the "").
Remarketing Agreement
Company
Deutsche Bank
Remarketing Agents
Trust
Property Trustee
Remarketed Securities
     All of the provisions of the Remarketing Agreement are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety, and shall be deemed to be a part of this Pricing Agreement (this "") to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein. Each reference to the Remarketing Agents herein and in the provisions of the Remarketing Agreement so incorporated by reference shall be deemed to refer to you. Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Remarketing Agreement are used herein as therein defined.
Agreement
     An amendment to the Registration Statement, or a supplement to the Prospectus, as the case may be, relating to the Remarketed Securities, in the form heretofore delivered to you is now proposed to be filed with the Commission.
     Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Remarketing Agreement incorporated herein by reference, the Company and the Remarketing Agents agree that: (i) final terms of the Remarketed Securities shall be as specified in Annex A hereto; (ii) pursuant to Section 1(i) of the Remarketing Agreement, the remarketing fee shall be 16.87 basis points (0.1687%) and (iii) "Applicable Time" means 4:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) on January 27, 2011.
 
     If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding, please sign and return to us counterparts hereof, and upon acceptance hereof by you, this letter and such acceptance hereof, including the provisions of the Remarketing Agreement incorporated herein by reference, shall constitute a binding agreement among each of the Remarketing Agents and the Company.
 
 
 
Filed pursuant to Rule 433 January 27, 2011
Relating to Preliminary Prospectus Supplement dated January 27, 2011 to Prospectus Dated January 27, 2011 Registration Statement No. 333-150298
 
 
All terms used and not otherwise defined in this final term sheet have the respective meanings assigned to such terms in the preliminary prospectus supplement.
The Issuer has filed a registration statement, including a prospectus, and preliminary prospectus supplement, with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the remarketing to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement, the prospectus supplement and other documents the Issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the Issuer and this remarketing. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at
www.sec.gov
. Alternatively, the Issuer and any Remarketing Agent participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request by calling Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. toll free at 1 (800) 503-4611, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC toll free at 1 (800) 221-1037 or U.S. Bancorp Investments, Inc. toll free at 1 (800) 888-4700 (option #3).
Any disclaimer or other notice that may appear below is not applicable to this communication and should be disregarded. Such disclaimer or notice was automatically generated as a result of this communication being sent by Bloomberg or another email system.

EXHIBIT 4.1
EXECUTION VERSION
 
     , dated as of February 1, 2011 (this "Supplemental Indenture"), among U.S. BANCORP, a Delaware corporation (hereinafter called the "Company"), having its principal office at 800 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402, WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY, a Delaware banking corporation, as successor Trustee (hereinafter called the "Trustee"), and U.S. Bank National Association, as Securities Registrar, Paying Agent and Authentication Agent.
NINTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
     the Company and Delaware Trust Company, National Association, a national banking association organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, as original Trustee (hereinafter called the "Original Trustee"), have entered into that certain Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of April 28, 2005 (the "Base Indenture"), which was amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 3, 2005 (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), which was further amended and supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 29, 2005, among the Company, the Original Trustee and the Trustee (the "Second Supplemental Indenture"), which was further amended and supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 17, 2006, (the "Third Supplemental Indenture"), which was further amended and supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 12, 2006 (the "Fourth Supplemental Indenture"), which was further amended and supplemented by the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 30, 2006 (the "Fifth Supplemental Indenture"), which was further amended and supplemented by the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 1, 2007 (the "Sixth Supplemental Indenture"), which was further amended and supplemented by the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 10, 2009 (the "Seventh Supplemental Indenture"), which was further amended and supplemented by the Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 10, 2010 (the "Eighth Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Junior Subordinated Indenture, the First Supplemental Indenture, the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Third Supplemental Indenture, the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, the Sixth Supplemental Indenture and the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, collectively referred to herein as the "Indenture"); providing for the issuance from time to time of Securities;
WHEREAS,
     pursuant to Section 9.1(3) of the Base Indenture, the Company and the Trustee entered into the Third Supplemental Indenture to establish the form and terms of the Company's Remarketable Junior Subordinated Notes due 2042 (the "Original Notes") pursuant to Sections 2.1 and 3.1 of the Base Indenture;
WHEREAS,
     , on March 17, 2006, pursuant to Section 2.1 and 3.1 of the Base Indenture, the Company issued $1,251,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Original Notes to USB Capital Trust IX (the "Trust"), a Delaware statutory trust, in connection with the Trust's public offering of its Capital Securities known as 6.189% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Income Trust Securities (the "Normal ITS");
WHEREAS
     , pursuant to Section 3.1 of the Third Supplemental Indenture, the Company and the Property Trustee (on behalf of the Trust) appointed the Remarketing Agents (as defined below) and entered into a Remarketing Agreement, dated January 27, 2011 (the "Remarketing
WHEREAS
 
Agreement") with Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. ("Deutsche Bank") as Representative for the Remarketing Agents listed on Schedule A thereto (the "Remarketing Agents"), to effect the Remarketing of the Original Notes;
     the Company has exercised its right pursuant to Section 3.2 of the Third Supplemental Indenture (as amended by Section 4.1 of the Eighth Supplemental Indenture), to change certain terms of the Original Notes as specified in the notice to the Remarketing Agents, the Collateral Agent, the Custodial Agent, the Property Trustee (on behalf of the Trust) and the Trustee dated December 29, 2010 (the "Notice");
WHEREAS,
     the Remarketing has been determined to be Successful in accordance with Section 3.5(a) of the Third Supplemental Indenture (as amended by Section 4.4 of the Eight Supplemental Indenture);
WHEREAS,
     pursuant to Section 3.3 of the Third Supplemental Indenture (as amended by Section 4.2 of the Eighth Supplemental Indenture), the Remarketing Agents have determined the Reset Rate on the Original Notes;
WHEREAS,
     , pursuant to Section 3.6 of the Third Supplemental Indenture (as amended by the Eighth Supplemental Indenture), the Company and the Trustee are authorized to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture to reflect the modifications of the terms of the Original Notes in connection with the Remarketing, including the issuance of remarketed notes and to amend the form of Note in Article V of the Third Supplemental Indenture, and to exchange the Original Notes for remarketed notes;
WHEREAS
     the conditions set forth in the Indenture for the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture have been satisfied;
WHEREAS,
     all things necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Company and the Trustee, in accordance with its terms, and a valid amendment of, and supplement to, the Indenture have been done; and
WHEREAS,
     in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, it is mutually covenanted and agreed that the Indenture is supplemented and amended to the extent and for the purposes expressed herein, as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
     Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Indenture.
Section 1.1.
 
     There is hereby authorized a series of Securities designated the 3.442% Remarketed Junior Subordinated Notes due February 1, 2016 (the "Remarketed Notes"), limited in aggregate principal amount to $676,378,000, which amount to be issued shall be as set forth in any Company Order for the authentication and delivery of Remarketed Notes pursuant to the Indenture. The denominations in which Remarketed Notes shall be issuable is $1,000 principal amount and integral multiples thereof.
Section 2.1.
     The rate at which the Remarketed Notes shall bear interest will be 3.442% per annum; the date from which such interest shall accrue is February 1, 2011; the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest shall be payable are February 1 and August 1 of each year, commencing August 1, 2011. The amount of interest payable for any period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. The amount of interest payable for any period shorter than a full semi-annual period will be computed on the basis of a 30-day month and, for periods of less than a month, the actual number of days elapsed per 30-day month.
Section 2.2.
     The Remarketed Notes shall not be subject to the right of redemption specified in Section 11.7 of the Base Indenture or the redemption provisions of Section 2.6(b) of the Third Supplemental Indenture.
Section 2.3.
     The Company appoints U.S. Bank National Association, as Securities Registrar and Paying Agent with respect to the Remarketed Notes.
Section 2.4.
     Notwithstanding any provision contained herein, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the Trustee may delegate its duty to provide such notices and to perform such other duties as may be required to be provided or performed by the Trustee under the Base Indenture and this Ninth Supplemental Indenture, and, to the extent such obligation has been so delegated, the Trustee shall not be responsible for monitoring the compliance of, nor be liable for the default or misconduct of, any such designee. The Trustee hereby appoints U.S. Bank National Association as authenticating agent to authenticate any certificates representing the Remarketed Notes. Each reference in the Base Indenture and this Ninth Supplemental Indenture to authentication by the Trustee shall include authentication by such agent.
Section 2.5.
     Section 5.1 of the Third Supplemental Indenture is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Section 3.1.
     Section 5.1 .
Form of Notes
 
     The Notes are to be substantially in the following form and shall bear any legend required by Section 2.4 of the Base Indenture:
     , a corporation organized and existing under the laws of Delaware (hereinafter called the "", which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to , or registered assigns, the principal sum of Dollars on February 1, 2016 (such date is hereinafter referred to as the ""). The Company further promises to pay interest on said principal sum from February 1, 2011, or from the most recent interest payment date (each such date, an "") on which interest has been paid or duly provided for (subject to deferral as set forth herein), semi-annually in arrears on February 1 and August 1 of each year, commencing August 1, 2011, at the rate of 3.442% , until the principal hereof shall have become due and payable, plus Additional Interest, if any, until the principal hereof is paid or duly provided for or made available for payment. The amount of interest payable for any period less than a full Interest Period shall be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. In the event that any date on which interest is payable on this Note is not a Business Day, then a payment of the interest payable on such date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (and without any interest or other payment in respect of any such delay), in each case with the same force and effect as if made on the date the payment was originally payable. A "" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or any other day on which banking institutions and trust companies in New York, New York, Minneapolis, Minnesota or Wilmington, Delaware, are permitted or required by any applicable law to close. The interest installment so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest installment, which shall be the date that is the January 15 or July 15 immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date (whether or not a Business Day). Any such interest installment not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
U.S. Bancorp
Company
                    
                    
Stated Maturity Date
Interest Payment Date
per annum
Business Day
     If the principal amount hereof or any portion of such principal amount is not paid when due (whether upon acceleration or upon the Stated Maturity Date) or if interest due hereon (or
 
any portion of such interest), is not paid when due, then in each such case the overdue amount shall, to the extent permitted by law, bear interest at the rate then borne by this Note for the applicable Interest Period, compounded at the end of such Interest Period, which interest shall accrue from the date such overdue amount was originally due to the date payment of such amount, including interest thereon, has been made or duly provided for. All such interest shall be payable as set forth in the Indenture.
     So long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Company shall have the right at any time during the term of this Note to defer payment of interest on this Note, at any time or from time to time, for up to that number of consecutive semi-annual Interest Periods remaining on this Note (or the equivalent thereof, if the Interest Periods are not then semi-annual) with respect to each deferral period (each an ""), during which Extension Periods the Company shall have the right to make partial payments of interest on any Interest Payment Date, and at the end of which the Company shall pay all interest then accrued and unpaid (together with Additional Interest thereon to the extent permitted by applicable law); that no Extension Period shall extend beyond the Stated Maturity of the principal of this Note; , that during any such Extension Period, the Company shall not, and shall not permit any Subsidiary of the Company to, (i) declare or pay any dividends or distributions on, or redeem, purchase, acquire or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any shares of the Company's capital stock, (ii) make any payment of principal of or interest or premium, if any, on or repay, repurchase or redeem any debt security of the Company that ranks in all respects with or junior in interest to the Note (except for partial payments of interest with respect to this Note) or (iii) make any guarantee payments with respect to any guarantee by the Company of the debt securities of any Subsidiary of the Company that by their terms rank in all respects with or junior in interest to this Note (other than (a) any repurchase, redemption or other acquisition of shares of the Company's capital stock in connection with (1) any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of any one or more employees, officers, directors, consultants or independent contractors, (2) the satisfaction of the Company's obligations pursuant to any contract entered into in the ordinary course prior to the beginning of the Extension Period, (3) a dividend reinvestment or stockholder purchase plan, or (4) the issuance of the Company's capital stock, or securities convertible into or exercisable for such capital stock, as consideration in an acquisition transaction entered into prior to the applicable Extension Period; (b) any exchange, redemption or conversion of any class or series of the Company's capital stock, or the capital stock of one of its subsidiaries, for any other class or series of the Company's capital stock, or any class or series of the Company's indebtedness for any class or series of its capital stock; (c) any purchase of fractional interests in shares of the Company's capital stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such capital stock or the securities being converted or exchanged; (d) any declaration of a dividend in connection with any rights plan, or the issuance of rights, stock or other property under any rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant thereto; or (e) any dividend in the form of stock, warrants, options or other rights where the dividend stock or stock issuable upon exercise of such warrants, options or other rights is the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid or ranks equally with or junior to such stock). Prior to the termination of any such Extension Period, the Company may further extend the interest payment period, that no Extension Period shall exceed that number of consecutive semi-annual Interest Periods remaining on this Note (or the equivalent thereof if this Note is not
Extension Period
provided
provided, further
pari passu
pari passu
provided
 
then bearing interest semi-annually) or extend beyond the Stated Maturity of the principal of this Note. Upon the termination of any such Extension Period and upon the payment of all accrued and unpaid interest then due, the Company may elect to begin a new Extension Period, subject to the above requirements. Subject to the last sentence of this paragraph, no interest shall be due and payable during an Extension Period except at the end thereof. The Company shall give the Trustee and the Paying Agent notice of its election to begin or extend any Extension Period at least ten Business Days prior to the date on which interest on the Notes would be payable but for the election to begin or extend such Extension Period. The Trustee or its designee shall give notice of the Company's election to begin or extend any Extension Period to the Holders of the Notes to the Administrative Trustees.
     Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Note will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the United States, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made (i) by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Securities Register or (ii) by wire transfer in immediately available funds at such place and to such account as may be designated by the Person entitled thereto as specified in the Securities Register in writing not less than 10 days before the date of the interest payment.
provided
     The indebtedness evidenced by this Note is, to the extent provided in the Indenture, subordinate and junior in right of payment and upon liquidation to the prior payment in full of all Senior and Subordinated Debt, and this Note is issued subject to the provisions of the Indenture with respect thereto. Each Holder of this Note, by accepting the same, (a) agrees to and shall be bound by such provisions, (b) authorizes and directs the Trustee on his behalf to take such actions as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the subordination so provided and (c) appoints the Trustee his attorney-in-fact for any and all such purposes. Each Holder hereof, by his acceptance hereof, waives all notice of the acceptance of the subordination provisions contained herein and in the Indenture by each holder of Senior and Subordinated Debt, whether now outstanding or hereafter incurred, and waives reliance by each such holder upon said provisions.
     Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
     Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
     , the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
In Witness Whereof
Attest: SECRETARY OR ASSISTANT SECRETARY
[
]
 
          This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the ""), issued and to be issued in one or more series under Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of April 28, 2005 (herein called the ""), between the Company and Delaware Trust Company, National Association, as trustee (the "Original Trustee"), as amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of August 3, 2005, between the Company and the Original Trustee (the ""), and as further amended and supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 29, 2005, between the Company, the Original Trustee and Wilmington Trust Company (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Base Indenture), as successor Trustee (the ""), and as further amended and supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 17, 2006, between the Company and the Trustee (the ""), and as further amended and supplemented by the Eight Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 10, 2010, between the Company and the Trustee (the ""), and as further amended and supplemented by the Ninth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 1, 2011, between the Company and the Trustee (the "" and together with the First Supplemental Indenture, the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Third Supplemental Indenture, the Eight Supplemental Indenture and the Junior Subordinated Indenture, the "") to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Company and the Holders of the Notes, and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. By terms of the Indenture, the Securities are issuable in series that may vary as to amount, date of maturity, rate of interest, rank and in other respects provided in the Indenture.
Notes
Base Indenture
First Supplemental Indenture
Second Supplemental Indenture
Third Supplemental Indenture
Eighth Supplemental Indenture
Ninth Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
     All terms used in this Note that are defined in the Indenture or in the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, dated as of March 17, 2006, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to the Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, dated as of June 10, 2010 (collectively, the ""), for USB Capital IX among U.S. Bancorp, as Depositor, and the Trustees named therein, shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture or the Trust Agreement, as the case may be.
Trust Agreement
     No sinking fund is provided for the Notes.
     The Indenture contains provisions for satisfaction and discharge of the entire indebtedness of this Note upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
     The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the Company and the Trustee at any time to enter into a supplemental indenture or indentures for the purpose of modifying in any manner the rights and obligations of the Company and of the Holders of the Notes, with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes to be affected by such supplemental indenture. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Notes at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Notes, to waive compliance by the Company
 
with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
     As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, if an Event of Default with respect to the Notes at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then and in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes may declare the entire principal amount and all accrued but unpaid interest of all the Notes to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders). Upon any such declaration, such amount of the principal of and the accrued but unpaid interest on all the Notes shall become immediately due and payable, that the payment of principal and interest on the Notes shall remain subordinated to the extent provided in Article XIII of the Base Indenture. Upon payment (i) of the amount of principal so declared due and payable and (ii) of interest on any overdue principal and overdue interest (in each case to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), all of the Company's obligations in respect of the payment of the principal of and interest (including Additional Interest), if any, on this Note shall terminate.
provided
     No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
     As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Securities Register, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company maintained under Section 10.2 of the Base Indenture duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Securities Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
     Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     The Notes are issuable only in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
 
     The Company and, by its acceptance of this Note or a beneficial interest therein, the Holder of, and any Person that acquires a beneficial interest in, this Note agree that for United States Federal, state and local tax purposes it is intended that this Note constitute indebtedness.
     
The Indenture and this Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
     This is one of the Securities referred to in the within mentioned Indenture.
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned assigns and transfers this Note to:
     
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
     
 
agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Securities Registrar. The agent may substitute another to act for him or her.
     Signatures must be guaranteed by an "" meeting the requirements of the Securities Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("") or such other "" as may be determined by the Securities Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
eligible guarantor institution
STAMP
signature guarantee program
 
     The Original Notes shall be exchanged for Remarketed Notes substantially in the form set forth in Section 3.1 of this Supplemental Indenture.
Section 4.1
     This Supplemental Indenture will become effective upon its execution and delivery.
Section 5.1.
Effectiveness.
     . The Indenture as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and this Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
Section 5.2.
Ratification of Indenture
     . The Company will, at its own cost and expense, execute and deliver any documents or agreements, and take any other actions that the Trustee or its counsel may from time to time request in order to assure the Trustee of the benefits of the rights granted to the Trustee under the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture.
Section 5.3.
Further Assurances
     . The recitals contained herein shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee does not assume any responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture.
Section 5.4.
Effect of Recitals
     . The Article and Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not effect the construction hereof.
Section 5.5.
Effect of Headings
     All covenants and agreements in the Indenture, as amended and supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
Section 5.6.
Successors and Assigns.
     . Nothing in this Supplemental Indenture is intended to or shall provide any rights to any parties other than those expressly contemplated by this Supplemental Indenture.
Section 5.7.
Benefits of Supplemental Indenture
 
     . If any provision of this Supplemental Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by any of Sections 310 to 317, inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 through operation of Section 318(c) thereof, such imposed duties shall control.
Section 5.8.
Trust Indenture Act Controls
     In case any provision of this Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 5.9.
Severability.
     THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Section 5.10.
Governing Law.
     This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts each of which shall be an original; but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested, all as of the day and year first above written.

EXHIBIT 5.1
U.S. Bancorp 800 Nicollet Mall Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     We have acted as counsel to U.S. Bancorp, a Delaware corporation (the ""), in connection with the issuance of $676,378,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.442% Remarketed Junior Subordinated Notes due 2016 (the ""), pursuant to a Junior Subordinated Indenture, dated as of April 28, 2005 (the ""), as supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 17, 2006 (the ""), the Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 10, 2010 (the ") and the Ninth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of February 1, 2011 (the "" and, together with the Third Supplemental Indenture and the Eighth Supplemental Indenture, together with the Base Indenture, the ""), between the Company and Wilmington Trust Company, a Delaware banking corporation, as successor indenture trustee, setting forth the terms of the Remarketed Notes, and pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-150298), as thereby amended from time to time (as amended, the ""), and a final prospectus supplement (including base prospectus), dated as of January 27, 2011, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), on January 28, 2011 (the "").
Company
Remarketed Notes
Base Indenture
Third Supplemental Indenture
"Eighth Supplemental Indenture
Ninth Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Registration Statement
Commission
Securities Act
Prospectus
     We have examined such documents, including resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company and any authorized committee thereof, and have reviewed such questions of law as we have considered necessary and appropriate for the purposes of our opinions set forth below. In rendering our opinions set forth below, we have assumed the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals, the genuineness of all signatures, the conformity to authentic originals of all documents submitted to us as copies and the effectiveness of the Registration Statement. In making our examination of documents executed by parties other than the Company, we have assumed that such parties had the power, corporate or other, to enter into and perform all obligations thereunder and have also assumed the due authorization by all requisite action, corporate or other, and execution and delivery by such parties of such documents, and the validity and binding effect and enforceability thereof on such parties. As to questions of fact material to our opinion, we have relied upon information obtained from officers of the Company and from public officials.
 
U.S. Bancorp February 1, 2011 Page 2
     Based upon and subject to the limitations, qualifications, exceptions and assumptions set forth herein, we are of the opinion that the issuance of the Remarketed Notes has been duly authorized and the Remarketed Notes constitute legally valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by (i) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent transfer and other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect, and (ii) general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
     Our opinions expressed above are limited to the laws of the State of New York, the federal law of the United States and the Delaware General Corporation Law (including the statutory provisions, all applicable provisions of the Delaware Constitution and reported judicial decisions interpreting the foregoing).
     This opinion is for your benefit in connection with the Registration Statement and may be relied upon by you and by persons entitled to rely upon it pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Securities Act. We hereby consent to your filing this opinion as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated February 1, 2011, and thereby incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement, and to the reference to our firm contained in the Prospectus under the heading "Legal Matters." In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.


