FILE:USB/USB-8K-20121204100039.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
As previously announced, Richard K. Davis, U.S. Bancorp's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, will make a presentation at the Goldman Sachs U.S. Financial Services Conference, at 11:00 a.m. Eastern time on Tuesday, December 4, 2012, in New York City. A copy of the presentation slides, which will be discussed during the presentation, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. These slides can also be accessed on U.S. Bancorp's website at by clicking on "About U.S. Bank" and then "Webcasts & Presentations" under the "Investor/Shareholder Information" heading, which is located at the left side of the bottom of the page. A live audio webcast of the presentation can also be accessed at this location on the website, and a replay of the webcast will be available at the same location on the website and will remain posted for 180 days.
usbank.com
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 4, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1


