FILE:USB/USB-8K-20120419140259.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On April 17, 2012, Richard G. Reiten retired from the board of directors of U.S. Bancorp (the "Company") in accordance with the Company's director retirement policy. Under this policy, an independent director must retire from the Company's board of directors at the first annual meeting of shareholders held after his or her 72nd birthday.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The Company held its 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on Tuesday, April 17, 2012, at the Minneapolis Convention Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Richard K. Davis, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, presided. The Company's shareholders considered three proposals, each of which is described in more detail in the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A (the "Proxy Statement") which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 9, 2012. The final voting results are reported below.
Election of fourteen directors to serve for a one-year term until the 2013 annual meeting of shareholders.
:
Proposal I
The Company's shareholders elected each of the fourteen nominees for director, and the voting results are set forth below:
 
Ratification of the selection of Ernst & Young LLP as the Company's independent auditor for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012.
:
Proposal II
The Company's shareholders ratified the selection of Ernst & Young LLP, and the voting results are set forth below:
 
Advisory vote to approve the compensation of the Company's executive officers disclosed in the Proxy Statement.
:
Proposal III
The Company's shareholders gave advisory approval of the compensation of the Company's executive officers as disclosed in the Proxy Statement, and the voting results are set forth below:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 19, 2012


