FILE:DPS/DPS-8K-20080813090246.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-14(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-14(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 13, 2008, Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter of its 2008 fiscal year ended June 30, 2008. A copy of such press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and will be published on the Company's web site at . The press release includes certain non-generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") financial measures. Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the press release.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
On August 13, 2008, the Company will hold a telephone conference and webcast to discuss the Company's financial results for the second quarter of its 2008 fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 and its outlook for the full year. During this conference, the Company will present certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and supplementary information related to these reconciliations will be posted to the Company's website at prior to the start of the call.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
(d) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1, is deemed to be furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
2
 
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
3
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
Plano, TX, August 13, 2008  Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (NYSE: DPS) reported second quarter 2008 earnings of $0.42 per share compared to $0.54 per share in the prior year period. The Company's results reflect the impact of certain related party transactions with Cadbury that continued until separation on May 7, 2008. Excluding restructuring costs in both years and transaction and separation related costs in the second quarter of 2008, the Company earned $0.60 per share, an increase of 7% compared to the same period last year. Net sales increased 1%, as higher pricing more than offset sales volume declines. Segment operating profit declined 2%, primarily due to the absence of glaceau distribution. Income from operations declined 4%. Year-to-date the company earned $0.80 per share compared to $0.81 per share in the prior year period. Excluding restructuring and separation related items, the Company earned $1.01 per share, an increase of 16% compared to the same period last year.
DPS President and CEO Larry Young said, "It's no secret that the beverage industry continues to face significant headwinds. Higher prices at the gas pump and at retailers across the country have impacted our consumers and their shopping habits. At DPS, we will continue to look for ways to leverage our strong flavor portfolio, customer partnerships and vertically integrated business model to expand our distribution footprint and provide preferred and affordable brands to more consumers in more outlets.
"During the quarter, we marked the official separation of our business from Cadbury on May 7, 2008. So in addition to winning on the streets, our corporate teams worked tirelessly to separate the business and establish our stand-alone financial statements. There's still a lot left to do, but I am immensely proud of the progress we have made."
 
 
 
Volume declined 4% reflecting higher pricing and a challenging macro-economic environment. Carbonated soft drinks (CSDs) declined 3% and non-carbonated beverages (NCBs) declined 8%.
Volume (BCS)
In CSDs, Dr Pepper volume declined 1%. "Core 4" brands  7UP, Sunkist, A&W and Canada Dry  declined 5% driven primarily by 7UP, as it cycled the final stages of launch support for 7UP with 100% Natural Flavors and the re-launch of Diet 7UP. In Mexico, Squirt and Peafiel declined high single-digits reflecting necessary pricing taken towards the end of first quarter 2008.
In NCBs, Hawaiian Punch volume increased low double-digits and Mott's was up 4%. Snapple declined mid single-digits as it cycled significant promotional activity in the prior year period, which for profitability reasons, was not repeated in 2008. In Mexico, Aguafiel declined 21% reflecting high single-digit price increases and a more competitive environment. The loss of the distribution agreement for glaceau products (November 2007) reduced NCB growth by 8 percentage points in the quarter.
In North America, volume declined 3% and in Mexico and the Caribbean, volume declined 9%.
Sales volume was down 3% reflecting BCS declines which were partially offset by a change in the timing of concentrate price increases from April in 2007 to February in 2008.
Sales Volume
Net sales increased 1% as mid single-digit price increases more than offset sales volume declines and a slight negative shift in mix. Beverage Concentrates and Finished Goods price/mix increased low single-digits, Bottling Group price/mix increased mid single-digits and Mexico and the Caribbean price/mix increased low double-digits. The acquisition of SeaBev in July 2007 positively impacted net sales growth by 2 percentage points, while the loss of the distribution agreement for glaceau products negatively impacted net sales growth by 4 percentage points.
Net sales
Across all measured channels, as reported by ACNielsen, the Company continues to lead the CSD category with U.S. dollar share up 0.4 percentage points year-to-date.
 
Gross profit was flat for the quarter reflecting net sales gains offset by higher commodity costs. COGS per case increased 6%. The net impact of the SeaBev acquisition and absence of glaceau reduced COGS per case growth by 4 percentage points.
Segment operating profit, corporate and other
Segment operating profit declined 2%. The loss of the distribution agreement for glaceau products negatively impacted segment operating profit growth by 4 percentage points. The acquisition of SeaBev had no impact to segment operating profit.
Income from operations decreased 4% reflecting segment operating profit declines and the net impact of: lower unallocated general and administrative expenses; lower stock-based compensation expenses; favorable gains in other adjustments versus a loss last year; and transaction and other one-time separation costs totaling $20 million. Restructuring costs related to previously announced actions were $14 million for the quarter.
Net interest expense increased $21 million as the Company incurred $24 million of fees and interest expense in connection with the termination of a bridge loan facility established to effect the separation from Cadbury.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 42.6%, which included $10 million of items that were mainly identified on separation as we established our stand-alone financial statements and $2 million related to certain tax items that are indemnified by Cadbury. Year-to-date the effective tax rate was 40.8%, which included $13 million of separation related and indemnified items.
The Company continues to expect 3% to 5% net sales growth. The Company now expects earnings per share of at least $1.65, which assumes commodity cost inflation, interest rates and tax rate as noted below. The earnings per share guidance includes approximately $0.29 per share comprising transaction and separation related costs ($0.08 per share), bridge loan fees and net interest in connection with the spin-off from Cadbury ($0.06 per share), previously announced restructuring costs ($0.10 per share) and separation related tax items ($0.04 per share). Excluding these items, the Company expects earnings per share of at least $1.94.
2008 full-year guidance
In line with previous guidance, the Company expects commodity cost inflation to increase COGS by approximately 6% and fuel to add approximately $40 million to distribution costs which are recorded in SG&A.
While the company is realizing substantially all of the benefits from its 2007 restructuring actions, these benefits are being offset by the higher fuel costs, the consolidation impact of the SeaBev acquisition and new stand-alone costs arising from the spin-off.
On May 7, 2008 DPS completed its separation from Cadbury. On this date, all payables to and loans from Cadbury were settled. The net balance due to Cadbury was paid using the proceeds of new unsecured senior credit totaling $3.9 billion. Based on current LIBOR, the 2008 blended interest rate on the new capital structure is approximately 6.3%, which includes 50 basis points related to the amortization of certain fees and expenses associated with establishing the new facilities. Cash will be managed to the liquidity needs of the business, with excess cash being used to pay down debt. We expect interest income for the remainder of the year to be minimal.
 
The earnings per share guidance assumes a full-year 2008 tax rate of about 40%, which includes approximately $10 million of charges related to certain tax items that are indemnified by Cadbury. A corresponding amount to reflect the indemnity is recorded as other income. Combined, these two items have no impact on our total results. The full year tax rate also includes $11 million of items that were mainly identified on separation as we established our stand-alone financial statements.
Capital spending is expected to be about 5% of net sales.
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including, in particular, statements about future events, future financial performance, plans, strategies, expectations, prospects, competitive environment, regulation, and cost and availability of raw materials. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "plan," "intend" or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements have been based on our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Our actual financial performance could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to the inherent uncertainty of estimates, forecasts and projections, and our financial performance may be better or worse than anticipated. Given these uncertainties, you should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. All of the forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors discussed under "Risk Factors," "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," and elsewhere in our Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 22, 2008. Forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date that they were made. We do not undertake any duty to update the forward-looking statements, and the estimates and assumptions associated with them, after the date of this release, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws.
Forward looking statement
At 10 a.m. CDT today, the Company will host a conference call with investors to discuss second quarter 2008 results and the outlook for 2008. The conference call and slide presentation will be accessible live through DPS' website at and will be archived for replay for a period of 14 days.
Conference Call
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
In discussing financial results and guidance, the Company may refer to certain non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of any such non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable financial measures in accordance with GAAP can be found under "Financial Press Releases" on the Company's website at in the "Investors" section.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
Volume (BCS) or bottler case sales: Sales of finished beverages, in equivalent 288 fluid ounce cases, sold by the Company and its bottling partners to retailers and independent distributors. Volume for products sold by the Company and its bottling partners is reported on a monthly basis, with the second quarter comprising April, May and June.
Definitions
Sales volume: Sales of concentrate and finished beverages, in equivalent 288 fluid ounce cases, shipped by the Company to its bottlers, retailers and independent distributors.
 
Price/mix refers to the combined impact of list price changes, discounts and allowances and the relative mix of the brands, products, packages and channels. Pricing refers to the impact of list price changes.
COGS per case: Cost of sales as reported divided by the sales volume in the quarter.
Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc., (NYSE: DPS) is an integrated refreshment beverage business marketing more than 50 beverage brands to consumers throughout North America. In addition to its flagship Dr Pepper and Snapple brands and trademarks, the company's portfolio includes 7UP, Mott's, A&W, Sunkist Soda, Hawaiian Punch, Canada Dry, Schweppes, Squirt, RC Cola, Diet Rite, Penafiel, Rose's, Yoo-hoo, Clamato, Mr & Mrs T and other well-known consumer favorites. Based in Plano, Texas, Dr Pepper Snapple Group employs approximately 20,000 people and operates 24 bottling and manufacturing facilities and more than 200 distribution centers across the United States, Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean. For more information, please visit .
About Dr Pepper Snapple Group
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The financial measures listed below are not measures defined by U.S. GAAP. However, we believe investors should consider these measures as we believe they are indicative of our ongoing performance and how management evaluates our operational results and trends. Specifically, investors should consider the following with respect to our quarterly and year to date results:
Net sales after adjustments for the Beverage Concentrates, Finished Goods and Bottling group segments is defined as net sales after intersegment eliminations and the impact of foreign currency. Segment operating profit is defined as income from operations before unallocated general and administrative expenses and other costs, restructuring costs, stock based-compensation expense, amortization expense related to intangible assets and other adjustments. We believe that segment operating profit and net sales after adjustments may be useful for investors in assessing our segment results. Segment operating profit and net sales after adjustments are not recognized measurements under U.S. GAAP. When evaluating our segment results, investors should not consider segment operating profit and net sales after adjustments in isolation of, or as a substitute for, measures of net income as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, such as net income or net cash provided by operating activities. Other companies may calculate segment operating profit and net sales after adjustments differently, and therefore our segment operating profit and net sales after adjustments may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. A reconciliation of segment operating profit to income before operations is provided below.
 
 
EPS excluding certain items for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007 is defined as reported EPS before items affecting comparability (as described below) and 2008 full year guidance EPS excluding certain items is defined as 2008 full year guidance EPS before items affecting comparability (as described below). We believe that EPS excluding certain items and 2008 full-year guidance excluding certain items may be useful for investors in assessing our ongoing performance. EPS excluding certain items is not a recognized measurement under U.S. GAAP. When evaluating our results, investors should not consider EPS excluding certain items in isolation of, or as a substitute for, EPS as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our EPS excluding certain items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Reconciliations of Reported EPS to EPS excluding certain items and 2008 full year guidance EPS to 2008 full year guidance EPS excluding certain items are as provided below:
 


