FILE:DPS/DPS-8K-20080605074218.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On June 5, 2008, Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing certain selected financial information for the first quarter of fiscal year 2008, ended March 31, 2008. A copy of such press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and will be published on the Company's web site at http://www.drpeppersnapple.com.
     Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 is deemed to be furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
     Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Exhibit 99.1 referenced below and the information set forth therein is deemed to be furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 hereof and shall not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
     
(c) Exhibits.
2
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
3
 
4

PLANO, Texas, June 5, 2008  Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (NYSE: DPS) reported pro forma EPS of $0.38 which included a charge of $0.02 per share related to restructuring actions announced in 2007. Net sales increased 3%, as higher pricing more than offset sales volume declines. Income from operations grew 15%, reflecting a 5% increase in segment operating profit and lower stock compensation expense.
DPS President and CEO Larry Young said, "We're off to a solid start in 2008, having delivered good top- and bottom-line results while successfully achieving a number of key initiatives: we realized the benefits of necessary pricing actions taken in 2007, while still continuing to provide value to our consumers; we continued to gain distribution in our Florida market through last year's acquisition of Southeast Atlantic Beverage Corp. (SeaBev); we are delivering the savings from restructuring actions taken toward the end of 2007; and we completed our spin-off as a public company on May 7, 2008. Through all this change our 20,000-person strong organization remained focused on delivering our results.
"With escalating commodity costs and a slowing U.S. economy, 2008 is set to be a challenging year for the beverage industry as a whole. Our portfolio of consumer-preferred brands, leadership in flavored carbonated soft drinks and the opportunity to close distribution gaps and expand our presence in non-carbonated beverages provide some relief against this backdrop. However, we remain alert to the impact commodity cost inflation is having on our consumers and the channels they shop. We are committed to executing our long term plans and investing in our brands."
 
FOR FIRST QUARTER 2008, DPS OPERATED AS A SUBSIDIARY OF CADBURY SCHWEPPES PLC (Cadbury). THE DISCUSSION BELOW REFLECTS THE IMPACT OF CERTAIN RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS WITH CADBURY THAT CONTINUED UNTIL SEPARATION ON MAY 7, 2008.
Volume
Volume in bottler case sales (BCS) declined 3%. Carbonated soft drinks (CSDs) declined 2% and non-carbonated beverages (NCBs) declined 8%.
In CSDs, Dr Pepper volume declined 2% driven by mid-single-digit declines in fountain/foodservice. "Core 4" brands  7UP, Sunkist, A&W and Canada Dry  declined 5% driven primarily by 7UP which had significant promotional activities in the first quarter of 2007 compared with first quarter 2008.
In NCBs, growth in Snapple, up 3%, and Mott's, up 6%, were more than offset by double-digit volume declines in Hawaiian Punch, as it cycled a double-digit price increase taken in April 2007, and the loss of our distribution agreement for glaceau products (November 2007) which reduced NCB growth by 4 percentage points in the quarter.
In North America BCS declined 4% while Mexico and the Caribbean BCS grew 3%, led by mid-single-digit volume growth in Squirt.
Sales volume declined 4% reflecting BCS declines as well as a change in the timing of concentrate price increases from April in 2007 to February in 2008. As expected, concentrate shipments normalized in April.
Net sales
Net sales increased 3%, as high-single-digit price increases more than offset sales volume declines. Beverage Concentrates, Bottling Group and Mexico/Caribbean price/mix increased mid-single-digits and Finished Goods price/mix increased double-digits. The acquisition of SeaBev in July 2007 positively impacted net sales growth by 2 percentage points, while the loss of our distribution agreement for glaceau products negatively impacted net sales growth by 3 percentage points.
Across all measured channels, as reported by ACNielsen for the U.S., the Company's first quarter CSD dollar share increased 0.4 percentage points and this trend continues year-to-date.
Segment operating profit, corporate and other
Gross profit was up 5% reflecting net sales gains and pricing ahead of cost of sales (COGS) increases. COGS per case increased 5% reflecting higher commodity costs and the absence of glaceau, which reduced COGS per case by 5 percentage points.
Segment operating profit was up 5% reflecting gross profit growth offset by the net impact of: lower marketing spend, due to a shift in program timing towards second and third quarter 2008; benefits from restructuring actions previously announced; higher fuel costs; and, the consolidation impact of the SeaBev acquisition. The loss of our distribution agreement for glaceau products negatively impacted segment operating profit growth by 4 percentage points.
 
Income from operations increased 15% reflecting a $3 million decrease in restructuring charges related to actions previously announced and a $13 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense, under the Cadbury plans, reflecting a lower share count and a reduced share price. DPS stock-based compensation plans became effective May 7, 2008.
Net interest expense decreased $21 million reflecting favorable changes in related-party balances.
The effective tax rate for the quarter was 38.7%.
2008 full-year guidance
The Company expects 3% to 5% net sales growth and diluted earnings per share of at least $1.67, which assumes commodity cost inflation, interest rates and tax rate as noted below. The diluted earnings per share includes approximately $0.24 per share comprising separation-related costs ($0.08 per share), bridge loan fees and net interest in connection with our spin-off from Cadbury ($0.06 per share) and restructuring charges related to actions previously announced ($0.10 per share).
The Company expects rising commodity costs to increase COGS by approximately 6%. Rising fuel costs are expected to negatively impact transportation and warehousing costs, recorded in SG&A.
The company is on-track to realize the full benefits of its 2007 restructuring actions, however, these benefits are being offset by the higher fuel costs, the consolidation impact of the SeaBev acquisition and new stand-alone costs arising from the spin-off.
On May 7, 2008, DPS completed its separation from Cadbury. On this date, Cadbury receivable and loan balances were settled. The net balance was paid using new unsecured senior credit totaling $3.9 billion. Based on current LIBOR, the blended interest rate on the new capital structure is approximately 6.3%, which includes 50 basis points related to the amortization of certain fees and expenses associated with establishing the new facilities. Cash will be managed to the liquidity needs of the business with excess cash being used to pay down debt. We expect interest income, post our May 7, 2008, separation, to be minimal.
The earnings per share guidance assumes a tax rate of about 39.6%, which includes approximately $11 million of charges related to certain tax items that are indemnified by Cadbury. A corresponding amount to reflect the indemnity is recorded as other income. Combined, these two items have no impact on our total results.
Capital spending is expected to be about 5% of net sales.
Forward looking statement
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including, in particular, statements about future events, future financial performance, plans, strategies, expectations, prospects, competitive environment, regulation, and cost and availability of raw materials. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "plan," "intend" or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements have been based on our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Our actual financial performance could differ materially from
 
those projected in the forward-looking statements due to the inherent uncertainty of estimates, forecasts and projections, and our financial performance may be better or worse than anticipated. Given these uncertainties, you should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. All of the forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors discussed under "Risk Factors," "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," and elsewhere in our Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 22, 2008. Forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date that they were made. We do not undertake any duty to update the forward-looking statements, and the estimates and assumptions associated with them, after the date of this release, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws.
Conference Call
At 10 a.m. CDT, the Company will host a conference call with investors to discuss first quarter 2008 results and the outlook for 2008. The conference call and slide presentation will be accessible live through DPS' website at and will be archived for replay for a period of 14 days.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
In discussing financial results and guidance, the Company may refer to certain non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of any such non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable financial measures in accordance with GAAP can be found under "Financial Press Releases" on the Company's website at in the "Investors" section.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
Definitions
Volume (BCS) or bottler case sales: Sales of finished beverages, in equivalent 288oz cases, sold by us and our bottling partners to retailers and independent distributors. Volume for products sold by us and our bottling partners is reported on a monthly basis, with the first quarter comprising January, February and March.
Sales volume: Sales of concentrate and finished beverages, in equivalent 288oz cases, shipped by us to our bottlers, retailers and independent distributors.
Price/mix refers to the combined impact of list price changes, discounts and allowances and the relative mix of our brands, products, packages and channels. Pricing refers to the impact of list price changes.
COGS per case: Cost of sales as reported divided by the sales volume in the quarter.
About Dr Pepper Snapple Group
Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc., (NYSE: DPS) is an integrated refreshment beverage business marketing more than 50 beverage brands to consumers throughout North America. In addition to its flagship Dr Pepper and Snapple brands, the company's portfolio includes 7UP, Mott's, A&W, Sunkist Soda, Hawaiian Punch, Canada Dry, Schweppes, Squirt, RC Cola, Diet Rite, Peafiel, Rose's, Yoo-hoo, Clamato, Mr & Mrs T and other well-known consumer favorites. Based in Plano, Texas, Dr Pepper Snapple Group employs approximately 20,000 people and operates 24 bottling and manufacturing facilities and more than 200 distribution centers across the United States, Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean. For more information, please visit .
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Net sales after adjustments for the Beverage concentrates, Finished Goods and Bottling Group segments is defined as net sales after intersegment eliminations and the impact of foreign currency. Segment operating profit is defined as income from operations before corporate and other costs, restructuring costs, stock based-compensation expense, amortization expense related to intangible assets and other adjustments. We believe that segment operating profit and net sales after adjustments may be useful for investors in assessing our segment results. Segment operating profit and net sales after adjustments are not recognized measurements under U.S. GAAP. When evaluating our segment results, investors should not consider segment operating profit and net sales after adjustments in isolation of, or as a substitute for, measures of net income as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, such as net income or net cash provided by operating activities. Other companies may calculate segment operating profit and net sales after adjustments differently, and therefore our segment operating profit and net sales after adjustments may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. A reconciliation of segment operating profit to income before operations is provided below.
 


