FILE:DPS/DPS-8K-20080926090133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Randall E. Gier, Executive Vice President, Marketing and R&D, will be leaving his employment with the registrant effective September 26, 2008.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits 99.1 Press Release issued September 26, 2008.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

PLANO, TX, Sept. 26, 2008Further refining its integrated business model, Dr Pepper Snapple Group (NYSE: DPS) announced a number of organizational changes, which are effective immediately, aimed at increasing its focus on key customers and capitalizing on the company's distribution network.
"These changes are designed to provide greater clarity around roles and accountabilities, speed decision-making, drive simplification and enhance retail execution," said Larry Young, president and CEO. "It's the logical next step in ensuring that our focus and resources are squarely aligned with our customers and channel partners and that we continue to respond nimbly to the evolving demands of the marketplace."
Rodger Collins will assume responsibilities for the company's finished goods business in addition to his responsibilities as president of Bottling Group Sales. This will allow DPS to optimize its direct-to-store (DSD) and national warehouse distribution network and to push high-priority initiatives, such as its cold drink strategy.
Jim Johnston will continue to lead the Beverage Concentrates business as well as National Account sales for the full brand portfolio across all retail channels, fountain/foodservice and Canada. Johnston will be charged with driving growth in this important business segment through innovative, brand-led sales programs working with key retailers and Coke-affiliated, Pepsi-affiliated and independent bottlers and distributors.
Jim Trebilcock, currently senior vice president Marketing and a 21-year DPS marketing veteran, will assume responsibility for all of DPS's marketing efforts. He will now report to Young.
Supporting these talented leaders in aligning sales demand, manufacturing and logistics is Derry Hobson, executive vice president of Supply Chain. He will continue to lead the company's efforts in building a world-class supply chain, producing both concentrate and finished goods under a broad portfolio of quality brands.
In addition, Pedro Herran, president Mexico and the Caribbean, will take on responsibility for corporate strategy, and Tina Barry, currently vice president Corporate Communications, will move into a newly created role responsible for Corporate Affairs reporting to Young. David Thomas, senior vice president R&D, will also report directly to Young. Randy Gier, executive vice president Marketing and R&D, has decided to pursue career opportunities outside the company.
Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc., (NYSE: DPS) is an integrated refreshment beverage business marketing more than 50 beverage brands to consumers throughout North America. In addition to its flagship Dr Pepper and Snapple brands, the company's portfolio includes 7UP, Mott's, A&W, Sunkist Soda, Hawaiian Punch, Canada Dry, Schweppes, Squirt, RC Cola, Diet Rite, Peafiel, Rose's, Yoo-hoo, Clamato, Mr & Mrs T Mixers and other well-known consumer favorites. Based in Plano, Texas, Dr Pepper Snapple Group employs approximately 20,000 people and operates 24 bottling and manufacturing facilities and more than 200 distribution centers across the United States, Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean. For more information, please visit www.drpeppersnapple.com.
About Dr Pepper Snapple Group


