FILE:DPS/DPS-8K-20080627060134.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the "Company" or "DPS") is furnishing supplemental financial information. Set forth as Exhibit 99.1 hereto is unaudited condensed combined statements of operations, operations by operating segment and a reconciliation of GAAP and non-GAAP information for each of the three months ended March 31, 2007, June 30, 2007, September 30, 2007 and December 31, 2007.
     The Company's historical unaudited condensed combined financial information has been prepared on a "carve-out" basis from Cadbury Schweppes, DPS' former parent company, using the historical results of operations, assets and liabilities attributable to Cadbury Schweppes' Americas Beverages business and including allocations of expenses from Cadbury Schweppes. The results may not be indicative of DPS' future performance and may not reflect DPS' financial performance had DPS been an independent publicly-traded company during the periods presented.
     This supplemental financial information should be read in conjunction with the information contained in the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on April 22, 2008, and the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2008, which was filed with the SEC on June 5, 2008, including the financial statements and the notes thereto and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in these filings.
     Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, the information set forth in this Item 2.02 and the related Exhibit 99.1 are deemed to be furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
     Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Exhibit 99.1 referenced below and the information set forth therein is deemed to be furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 hereof and shall not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
          
(c) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
     Segment results are based on management reports, which are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. Net sales and underlying operating profit ("UOP") are the significant financial measures used to measure the operating performance of the Company's operating segments. Reference is made to the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 and the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2008 for additional information regarding net sales and UOP by operating segment.
     Information about the Company's operations by operating segment is as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
     UOP represents a measure of income from operations and is defined as income from operations before restructuring costs, non-trading items, interest, amortization and impairment of intangibles. To reconcile the segments' total UOP to the Company's total income from operations on a U.S. GAAP basis, adjustments are primarily required for: (1) restructuring costs, (2) non-cash compensation charges on stock option awards, (3) amortization and impairment of intangibles and (4) incremental pension costs. Depreciation expense is included in the operating segments. In addition, adjustments are required for total company corporate costs and other items. To reconcile UOP to the line item "income before provision for income taxes and equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries" as reported on a U.S. GAAP basis, additional adjustments are required, primarily for interest expense, interest income, and other expense (income).
 
 
 
     Net sales after adjustments for the Beverage Concentrates, Finished Goods and Bottling Group segments is defined as net sales after intersegment eliminations and the impact of foreign currency. Segment operating profit is defined as income from operations before corporate and other costs, restructuring costs, stock-based compensation expense, amortization expense related to intangible assets and other adjustments. The Company believes that segment operating profit and net sales after adjustments may be useful for investors in assessing our segment results. Segment operating profit and net sales after adjustments are not recognized measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). When evaluating DPS' segment results, investors should not consider segment operating profit and net sales after adjustments in isolation of, or as a substitute for, measures of net income as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, such as net income or net cash provided by operating activities. Other companies may calculate segment operating profit and net sales after adjustments differently, and therefore DPS' segment operating profit and net sales after adjustments may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. A reconciliation of segment operating profit to income before operations is provided below.
 
 
 


