FILE:DPS/DPS-8K-20080903105548.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On September 3, 2008, Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it will be reconfirming its full year fiscal guidance for fiscal year 2008 at Lehman Brothers Second Annual Back-to-School Conference in Boston to held on that date. A copy of such press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1. The press release includes certain non-generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") financial measures. Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.2 and will be posted to the Company's website at
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com.
The information contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 attached hereto, are deemed to be furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 referenced below and the information set forth therein is deemed to be furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 hereof and shall not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
2 
 
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
3 
 
4 

EXHIBIT 99.1
DR PEPPER SNAPPLE GROUP TO RECONFIRM GUIDANCE AT LEHMAN BROTHERS SECOND ANNUAL BACK-TO-SCHOOL CONSUMER CONFERENCE
PLANO, Texas  September 3, 2008  Today at the Lehman Brothers Second Annual Back-To-School Consumer Conference in Boston, MA, Larry Young, DPS president and CEO, will reconfirm full-year 2008 guidance. The Company expects 2008 earnings per share of at least $1.65. Excluding certain items, 2008 EPS is expected to be at least $1.94  unchanged from its previous guidance.
 
About Dr Pepper Snapple Group
Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc., (NYSE: DPS) is an integrated refreshment beverage business marketing more than 50 beverage brands to consumers throughout North America. In addition to its flagship Dr Pepper and Snapple brands, the company's portfolio includes 7UP, Mott's, A&W, Sunkist Soda, Hawaiian Punch, Canada Dry, Schweppes, Squirt, RC Cola, Diet Rite, Penafiel, Rose's, Yoo-hoo, Clamato, Mr & Mrs T and other well-known consumer favorites. Based in Plano, Texas, Dr Pepper Snapple Group employs approximately 20,000 people and operates 24 bottling and manufacturing facilities and more than 200 distribution centers across the United States, Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean. For more information, please visit http://www.drpeppersnapple.com/
 
Safe Harbor Statement
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including, in particular, statements about future events, future financial performance, plans, strategies, expectations, prospects, competitive environment, regulation, and cost and availability of raw materials. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "plan," "intend" or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements have been based on our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Our actual financial performance could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to the inherent uncertainty of estimates, forecasts and projections, and our financial performance may be better or worse than anticipated. Given these uncertainties, you should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. All of the forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors discussed under "Risk Factors," "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," and elsewhere in our Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 22, 2008. Forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date that they were made. We do not undertake any duty to update the forward-looking statements, and the estimates and assumptions associated with them, after the date of this release, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws
Tina Barry (972) 673-7931 Greg Artkop (972) 673-8470
Media Contacts:
Aly Noormohamed, SVP Investor Relations (972) 673-6050
Investor Relations

EXHIBIT 99.2
     The financial measures listed below are not measures defined by U.S. GAAP. However, we believe investors should consider these measures as we believe they are indicative of our ongoing performance and how management evaluates our operational results and trends. Specifically, investors should consider the following with respect to our quarterly and year to date results:
              Our 2008 EPS without the impact of restructuring costs, transaction costs and other one time separation related costs, bridge loan fees and expenses and incremental tax related to the separation; our 2007 EPS without the impact of restructuring costs; and our 2008 EPS growth without the impact of the aforementioned items.
 - 
     Segment operating profit is defined as income from operations before unallocated general and administrative expenses and other costs, restructuring costs, stock based-compensation expense, amortization expense related to intangible assets and other adjustments. We believe that segment operating profit may be useful for investors in assessing our segment results. Segment operating profit is not a recognized measurement under U.S. GAAP. When evaluating our segment results, investors should not consider segment operating profit in isolation of, or as a substitute for, measures of net income as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, such as net income or net cash provided by operating activities. Other companies may calculate segment operating profit differently, and therefore our segment operating profit may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. A reconciliation of segment operating profit to income before operations is provided below.
 
 
     EPS excluding certain items for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007 is defined as reported EPS before items affecting comparability (as described below) and 2008 full year guidance EPS excluding certain items is defined as 2008 full year guidance EPS before items affecting comparability (as described below). We believe that EPS excluding certain items and 2008 full-year guidance excluding certain items may be useful for investors in assessing our ongoing performance. EPS excluding certain items is not a recognized measurement under U.S. GAAP. When evaluating our results, investors should not consider EPS excluding certain items in isolation of, or as a substitute for, EPS as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our EPS excluding certain items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Reconciliations of Reported EPS to EPS excluding certain items and 2008 full year guidance EPS to 2008 full year guidance EPS excluding certain items are as provided below:
 


