FILE:DPS/DPS-8K-20081113091724.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On November 13, 2008, Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of its 2008 fiscal year ended September 30, 2008. A copy of such press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and will be published on the Company's web site at . The press release includes certain non-generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") financial measures. Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the press release.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
On November 13, 2008, the Company will hold a telephone conference and webcast to discuss the Company's financial results for the third quarter of its 2008 fiscal year ended September 30, 2008 and its outlook for the full year. During this conference, the Company will present certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and supplementary information related to these reconciliations will be posted to the Company's website at prior to the start of the call.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1, is deemed to be furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

     Plano, TX, November 13, 2008  Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (NYSE: DPS) reported third quarter 2008 earnings of $0.41 per share compared to $0.61 per share in the prior year period. The results reflect the company's first full quarter as a stand-alone business following its separation from Cadbury plc on May 7, 2008. Excluding restructuring costs in both years and transaction and separation related costs in the current year, the company earned $0.45 per share compared to $0.63 per share in the prior year period. Excluding the impact from the loss of glaceau product distribution, net sales increased 5% on the strength of 1% volume growth and the ongoing benefit of pricing actions taken earlier in the year. Segment operating profit declined 17%, primarily reflecting unfavorable comparisons of fountain/foodservice and other beverage concentrates discounts, the absence of glaceau product distribution and higher transportation costs. Income from operations declined 26%.
     Year-to-date, the company earned $1.21 per share compared to $1.42 per share in the prior year period. Excluding restructuring and separation related items, the company earned $1.46 per share compared to $1.50 per share in the prior year period. The company generated $523 million of cash from operating activities and since its separation from Cadbury in May, 2008, it has repaid $295 million of its floating rate term loan obligations.
     DPS President and CEO Larry Young said, "Without a doubt, this is one of the toughest environments the beverage industry has faced in many years. With disposable incomes falling, consumers are thinking harder about what they buy. Despite these headwinds, we demonstrated during the quarter that our portfolio of flavored beverages has room to grow and that our business continues to generate strong cash flow. While CSD volume was up 0.5%, demand for our premium-priced products slowed significantly resulting in performance that was below our expectations.
     "In these uncertain times, we remain committed to our long-term goals  leverage our strong portfolio of flavor brands, strengthen our route-to-market, rally around our customers and consumers and deliver results that outperform the industry. We continue to invest with an eye to the future and our recent
 
organizational changes will ensure that we are better able to leverage our third-party and company-owned distribution models to drive process simplification, speed of decision making and total system profitability."
 
BCS  bottler case sales
 
Volume (BCS)
     Volume declined 1%. Excluding the impact of glaceau, volume grew 1% as carbonated soft drinks (CSDs) increased 0.5% and non-carbonated beverages (NCBs) increased 3%.
     In CSDs, Dr Pepper volume was up slightly. "Core 4" brands  7UP, Sunkist, A&W and Canada Dry  increased 1.5% driven primarily by Canada Dry which was up 8% as Green Tea Ginger Ale continued to gain momentum. 7UP volume was down 3% but showed improvement in its trend. In Mexico, Peafiel declined mid single-digits reflecting necessary pricing actions taken earlier in the year.
     In NCBs, Hawaiian Punch volume increased 24% on second half promotional activities and favorable comparisons to the prior year period. A slowdown in consumer spending and increased price competition in the tea and enhanced water categories impacted performance of the company's premium-priced products with results that were below expectations. Snapple, including antioxidant waters, declined 7%. Issues with apple and lemon supplies, resulting from extensive crop damage,
 
limited sales of Mott's sauce and Realemon/Realime. In Mexico, Aguafiel declined 20% reflecting high single-digit price increases and a more competitive environment.
     In North America, excluding the impact of glaceau, volume increased 2% and in Mexico and the Caribbean, volume declined 4%.
Sales Volume
     Sales volume declined 1%. Excluding the impact of glaceau, sales volume increased 1% in line with BCS trends.
Net sales
     Net sales declined 2%. Excluding the impact of glaceau, net sales increased 5% driven by volume growth of 1% and mid single-digit price increases taken earlier in the year, partially offset by unfavorable comparisons of fountain/foodservice and other beverage concentrates discounts which were $19 million higher. Beverage concentrates price/mix decreased low single-digits. Finished goods price/mix decreased mid single-digits on higher sales of Hawaiian Punch and lower than expected performance of the company's premium-priced products. Bottling Group price/mix increased mid single-digits and Mexico and the Caribbean price/mix increased low double-digits.
     Across all measured channels, as reported by ACNielsen, the company continues to lead the U.S. CSD category in dollar share growth with its share up 0.3 percentage points year-to-date.
Segment operating profit, corporate and other
     Gross profit decreased 4% reflecting net sales declines and higher commodity costs. Cost of sales (COGS) per case increased 1%. The loss of glaceau product distribution reduced gross profit growth by 3 percentage points and COGS per case growth by 9 percentage points.
     Segment operating profit declined 17% primarily reflecting unfavorable comparisons of fountain/foodservice and other beverage concentrates discounts ($19 million), the absence of glaceau product distribution ($17 million) and higher transportation costs ($15 million).
     Below-the-line, costs were broadly in line with expectations. Restructuring costs related to previously announced actions were $7 million for the quarter. Transaction and other one-time separation costs totaled $9 million. Stock-based compensation expenses were $3 million for the quarter versus an $8 million gain in the prior year quarter due to a decrease in the fair value of options under the Cadbury stock plan. Other expenses were $4 million in the current quarter versus a $6 million gain in related party items in the prior year period.
     Net interest expense increased $12 million to $56 million reflecting the company's new capital structure as a stand-alone company and the absence of related party interest income totaling $19 million.
     The effective tax rate for the quarter was 35.8%, which included $5 million related to certain tax items that are indemnified by Cadbury, improved utilization of foreign and other tax credits and a favorable impact from territory mix. Year-to-date, the effective tax rate was 39.2%, which included $18 million of separation related and indemnified items.
     Year-to-date, the company generated $523 million of cash from operating activities. Adjusted for certain items, cash provided by operating activities was $582 million up $218 million from the prior
 
year on strong working capital performance. Since its separation from Cadbury in May 2008, the company has repaid $295 million of its floating rate term loan obligations.
2008 full-year guidance
     Further reductions in consumer spending given a more challenging macro economic environment are impacting near- and medium-term forecast visibility. The company currently expects full year 2008 net sales growth of about 1% and earnings per share of approximately $1.54 to $1.57, or approximately $1.83 to $1.86 excluding certain items. This reflects deteriorating economic conditions in the U.S. and Mexico, the impact of a strengthening U.S. dollar and the loss of Hansen Natural product distribution.
     The company continues to expect: restructuring costs of $0.10 per share; transaction and separation related costs of $0.08 per share; bridge loan fees and net interest in connection with the spin-off from Cadbury of $0.06 per share; and separation related tax items of $0.04 per share.
     The company is negotiating its settlement with Hansen Natural under the provisions of the distribution agreement.
     Despite a recent fall in commodity prices, the company still expects 2008 COGS inflation of approximately 6%, as lower commodity costs are being offset by higher concentrate component and other ingredient costs. Fuel is now expected to add approximately $35 million to distribution costs which are recorded in SG&A.
     During the third quarter, the company entered into a series of interest rate swaps that effectively converted a substantial portion of its floating rate term loan to fixed rate through December 2009. The blended interest rate, including amortization of fees and expenses, for the fourth quarter is expected to be approximately 6.4%.
     The earnings per share guidance assumes a full-year 2008 tax rate of approximately 39.4%, which reflects improved utilization of foreign and other tax credits and a favorable impact from territory mix. The tax rate includes approximately $13 million of charges related to certain tax items that are indemnified by Cadbury. A corresponding amount to reflect the indemnity is recorded as other income. In total, these two items have no impact on our total results. Additionally, the rate includes $11 million of items that were mainly identified on separation when the company established its stand-alone financial statements.
     Capital spending is expected to be about 5% of net sales.
2009 items
     The company expects to provide more details about 2009 on its fourth quarter earnings call.
     Investors are reminded that 2009 will be the company's first full year as a stand-alone business. In establishing stand-alone operations, the company expects to incur approximately $25 million of higher general and administrative expenses, including stock-based compensation costs. Additionally, the absence of significant related party receivables from Cadbury will result in approximately $25 million of lower interest income.
     The company's agreement with Hansen Natural ended November 10, 2008. Through this date, the company estimates its net sales and operating profit from distributing these products to be approximately $200 million and $40 million, respectively.
 
     The blended interest rate for the company's debt obligations, including amortization of fees and expenses, is expected to be approximately 6.6%.
     Capital spending is expected to be about 5% of net sales.
     The company remains committed to using free cash to pay down its floating rate term loan obligations ahead of schedule.
Forward looking statement
     This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including, in particular, statements about future events, future financial performance, plans, strategies, expectations, prospects, competitive environment, regulation, and cost and availability of raw materials. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "plan," "intend" or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements have been based on our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Our actual financial performance could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to the inherent uncertainty of estimates, forecasts and projections, and our financial performance may be better or worse than anticipated. Given these uncertainties, you should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. All of the forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors discussed under "Risk Factors" in our Quarterly Report on Form 10Q and "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," and elsewhere in our Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on April 22, 2008 and our other filings with the SEC. Forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date that they were made. We do not undertake any duty to update the forward-looking statements, and the estimates and assumptions associated with them, after the date of this release, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws.
Conference Call
     At 10 a.m. (Central Time) today, the company will host a conference call with investors to discuss third quarter 2008 results, the outlook for the balance of 2008 and a preliminary view of 2009. The conference call and slide presentation will be accessible live through DPS' website at and will be archived for replay for a period of 14 days.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
     In discussing financial results and guidance, the company may refer to certain non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of any such non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable financial measures in accordance with GAAP can be found under "Financial Press Releases" on the company's website at in the "Investors" section.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
Definitions
     Volume (BCS) or bottler case sales: Sales of finished beverages, in equivalent 288 fluid ounce cases, sold by the company and its bottling partners to retailers and independent distributors. Volume for products sold by the company and its bottling partners is reported on a monthly basis, with the third quarter comprising July, August and September.
 
     Sales volume: Sales of concentrate and finished beverages, in equivalent 288 fluid ounce cases, shipped by the company to its bottlers, retailers and independent distributors.
     Price/mix refers to the combined impact of list price changes, discounts and allowances and the relative mix of the brands, products, packages and channels. Pricing refers to the impact of list price changes.
     COGS per case: Cost of sales as reported divided by the sales volume in the quarter.
About Dr Pepper Snapple Group
     Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc., (NYSE: DPS) is an integrated refreshment beverage business marketing more than 50 beverage brands to consumers throughout North America. In addition to its flagship Dr Pepper and Snapple brands and trademarks, the company's portfolio includes 7UP, Mott's, A&W, Sunkist Soda, Hawaiian Punch, Canada Dry, Schweppes, Squirt, RC Cola, Diet Rite, Penafiel, Rose's, Yoo-hoo, Clamato, Mr & Mrs T and other well-known consumer favorites. Based in Plano, Texas, Dr Pepper Snapple Group employs approximately 20,000 people and operates 24 bottling and manufacturing facilities and more than 200 distribution centers across the United States, Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean. For more information, please visit http://www.drpeppersnapple.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     The financial measures listed below are not measures defined by U.S. GAAP. However, we believe investors should consider these measures as we believe they are indicative of our ongoing performance and how management evaluates our operational results and trends. Specifically, investors should consider the following with respect to our quarterly and year to date results:
     Net sales after adjustments for the Beverage Concentrates, Finished Goods and Bottling group segments is defined as net sales after intersegment eliminations and the impact of foreign currency. Segment operating profit is defined as income from operations before unallocated general and administrative expenses and other costs, restructuring costs, stock based-compensation expense, amortization expense related to intangible assets and other adjustments. We believe that segment operating profit and net sales after adjustments may be useful for investors in assessing our segment results. Segment operating profit and net sales after adjustments are not recognized measurements under U.S. GAAP. When evaluating our segment results, investors should not consider segment operating profit and net sales after adjustments in isolation of, or as a substitute for, measures of net income as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, such as net income or net cash provided by operating activities. Other companies may calculate segment operating profit and net sales after adjustments differently, and therefore our segment operating profit and net sales after adjustments may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. A reconciliation of segment operating profit to income before operations is provided below.
 
 
     Due to the loss of the distribution agreement for glaceau products in 2007, adjusted net sales excluding net sales related to glaceau for the three months ended September 30, 2007, illustrates the performance of the underlying business on a comparable basis. A reconciliation of net sales to adjusted net sales excluding glaceau is provided below:
     Adjusted net cash provided by operating activities is defined as reported net cash provided by operating activities less the effects of related party balances. We believe that cash provided by operating activities excluding related party transactions may be useful for investors in assessing our ongoing performance. The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities as reported to adjust net cash provided by operating activities:
 
     EPS excluding certain items for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2008 and 2007 is defined as reported EPS before items affecting comparability (as described below) and 2008 full year guidance EPS excluding certain items is defined as 2008 full year guidance EPS before items affecting comparability (as described below). We believe that EPS excluding certain items and 2008 full-year guidance excluding certain items may be useful for investors in assessing our ongoing performance. EPS excluding certain items is not a recognized measurement under U.S. GAAP. When evaluating our results, investors should not consider EPS excluding certain items in isolation of, or as a substitute for, EPS as determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our EPS excluding certain items may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Reconciliations of Reported EPS to EPS excluding certain items and 2008 full year guidance EPS to 2008 full year guidance EPS excluding certain items are as provided below:
 


