FILE:DPS/DPS-8K-20091105090850.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-14(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-14(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 5, 2009, Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of its 2009 fiscal year ended September 30, 2009. A copy of such press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and will be published on the Company's web site at . The press release includes certain non-generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") financial measures. Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the press release.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
On November 5, 2009, the Company will hold a telephone conference and webcast to discuss the Company's financial results for the third quarter of its 2009 fiscal year ended September 30, 2009 and its outlook for the full year. During this conference, the Company will present certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and supplementary information related to these reconciliations will be posted to the Company's website at prior to the start of the call.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
(d) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1, is deemed to be furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
Plano, TX, November 5, 2009  Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (NYSE: DPS) reported third quarter 2009 earnings of $0.59 per share compared to $0.41 per share in the prior year period. Earnings per share were $0.54 compared to $0.45 excluding separation-related costs and restructuring items. Year-to-date the company reported earnings of $1.73 per share compared to $1.21 per share in the prior year period. Year-to-date earnings per share were $1.53 compared to $1.46 excluding distribution agreement changes, separation-related costs, and restructuring items.
For the quarter, reported net sales were down 4%. Net sales increased 2% on a currency neutral basis and excluding the loss of Hansen product distribution. Pricing actions taken earlier in the year combined with 4% sales volume growth were offset by negative mix from higher sales of carbonated soft drink (CSD) concentrate and value juice. Segment operating profit, as adjusted, increased 31% reflecting lower packaging, ingredient and transportation costs, operating efficiencies, and favorable comparisons to discounts and inventory adjustments in the prior year period. Reported income from operations was $272 million compared to $213 million in the prior year period.
DPS President and CEO Larry Young said, "While the economy is showing some signs of recovery, it's still too early to see this translate into higher beverage sales. For the quarter, liquid refreshment beverage trends remained negative. Against this backdrop, we once again demonstrated the power of our portfolio and the flexibility of our routes to market, posting solid top-line and strong bottom-line growth. A year and a half into our life as a public company, we're proud of what we have accomplished so far. Our priorities and strategies remain unchanged and continue to support long-term sustainable growth."
 
 
Volume (BCS), sales volume, net sales and segment operating profit, as adjusted, in the tables and commentary below exclude the loss of Hansen product distribution and are on a currency neutral basis. For a reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures see pages A-5 and A-6 accompanying this release.
BCS  bottler case sales
Volume (BCS)
For the quarter, BCS volume increased 4% with CSDs growing 5% and non-carbonated beverages (NCB) up slightly.
In CSDs, Dr Pepper volume increased 3%. "Core 4" brands  7UP, Sunkist soda, A&W and Canada Dry  were down 3%. Canada Dry and 7UP grew 4% and 1%, respectively, while A&W was down 1% and Sunkist soda declined double-digits. Crush volume more than doubled, adding 13 million cases, on expanded third-party distribution in the U.S. and the launch of Crush value offerings in Mexico. Fountain foodservice volume increased 2%. Peafiel increased 10% on expanded distribution and a restage of Peafiel flavors.
In NCBs, Hawaiian Punch volume increased 3%, lapping strong double-digit growth in the prior year. Pressure on the company's premium products continued. Snapple declined 6%, but improved sequentially for the second straight quarter.
By geography, U.S. and Canada volume increased 4%, and in Mexico and the Caribbean, volume increased 9%.
 
Across all measured channels, as reported by The Nielsen Company, the company grew U.S. CSD dollar share 1.1 percentage points and flavored CSD dollar share by 1.6 percentage points year-to-date.
Sales volume
For the quarter, sales volume increased 3%. Sales volume, as adjusted, increased 4% and was in-line with BCS volume. Year-to-date adjusted sales volume and BCS volume increased 4% each.
SOP  Segment Operating Profit
Beverage Concentrates
Net sales for the quarter increased 14% reflecting sales volume growth led by expanded Crush distribution and favorable comparisons to certain discounts in the prior year period. Mid-single-digit price increases taken at the beginning of the year were partially offset by higher coupon spending and increased fountain foodservice contractual discounts. Segment operating profit increased 25% reflecting net sales growth and favorable comparisons to inventory adjustments in the prior year period, partially offset by increased marketplace investments and higher compensation-related costs.
Packaged Beverages
Net sales for the quarter decreased 1% reflecting a 1% decline in sales volume. Mid-single-digit declines in premium-priced beverages and double-digit declines in Sunkist soda were partially offset by a low single-digit increase in Hawaiian Punch. Price increases in CSDs and Snapple, taken earlier in the year, were offset by the impact of negative mix. Segment operating profit increased 42% due to lower packaging, ingredient and transportation costs and continued operating efficiencies, partially offset by higher marketing, SAP upgrade and handheld roll-out expenses.
Latin America Beverages
Net sales for the quarter increased 9% reflecting sales volume growth driven by route expansion, the new Crush value offerings and the restage of Peafiel flavors. Segment operating profit was flat as net sales growth was offset by higher selling and distribution costs related to new routes and the negative impact of channel mix.
 
Corporate and other items
For the quarter, corporate costs totaled $65 million including $3 million of unrealized commodity-related mark-to-market gains as well as continued productivity office investments. Corporate costs in 2008 were $69 million, including $9 million related to one-time transaction and separation-related costs.
Net interest expense decreased $6 million principally reflecting a lower debt balance.
The effective tax rate was 38%. This included a tax expense of $3 million related to certain tax items indemnified by Cadbury. During the quarter, we also recorded one-time, separation-related benefits of $13 million, net of taxes, driven by indemnified audit settlements and foreign tax items.
Cash flow
Year-to-date, the company generated $701 million of cash from operating activities, including a $42 million contribution to its pension and post-retirement benefit plans. Year-to-date net capital spending totaled $218 million. The company made optional principal repayments of $200 million of its floating rate term loan in the quarter. Year-to-date, the company repaid $480 million covering all of its debt obligations through the first half of 2011.
2009 full-year guidance
The company now expects full year net sales to be down 3% to 4%. Excluding the loss of Hansen product distribution and on a currency neutral basis, the company expects net sales to grow approximately 2%.
2009 reported earnings per share are expected to be in the $2.12 to $2.16 range. This reflects:
Excluding net gains related to distribution agreement changes and separation-related tax items, the company expects 2009 earnings per share to be in the $1.92 to $1.96 range.
Consistent with its previous guidance, the company expects to make cash contributions totaling $43 million to its pension and post-retirement benefit plans in 2009 and expects net capital spending to be approximately 5% of net sales.
The company remains committed to using its free cash flow to pay down debt and now expects to reduce its debt obligations by $550 million in 2009. This reflects an increase of $150 million from its beginning of the year guidance.
Forward-looking statement
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including, in particular, statements about future events, future financial performance, plans, strategies, expectations, prospects, competitive environment, regulation, and cost and availability of raw materials. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "plan," "intend" or the negative of these terms or similar
 
expressions. These forward-looking statements have been based on our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Our actual financial performance could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to the inherent uncertainty of estimates, forecasts and projections, and our financial performance may be better or worse than anticipated. Given these uncertainties, you should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. All of the forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors discussed under "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date that they were made. We do not undertake any duty to update the forward-looking statements, and the estimates and assumptions associated with them, after the date of this release, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws.
Conference Call
At 10 a.m. (CST) today, the company will host a conference call with investors to discuss third quarter 2009 results and the outlook for 2009. The conference call and slide presentation will be accessible live through DPS' website at and will be archived for replay for a period of 14 days.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
In discussing financial results and guidance, the company may refer to certain non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of any such non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable financial measures in accordance with GAAP can be found on pages A-5 and A-6 accompanying this release and under "Financial Press Releases" on the company's website at in the "Investors" section.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
Definitions
Volume (BCS) or bottler case sales: Sales of finished beverages, in equivalent 288 fluid ounce cases, sold by the company and its bottling partners to retailers and independent distributors. Volume for products sold by the company and its bottling partners is reported on a monthly basis, with the third quarter comprising July, August and September.
Sales volume: Sales of concentrates and finished beverages, in equivalent 288 fluid ounce cases, shipped by the company to its bottlers, retailers and independent distributors.
Pricing refers to the impact of list price changes.
About Dr Pepper Snapple
Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (NYSE: DPS) is the leading producer of flavored beverages in North America and the Caribbean. Our success is fueled by more than 50 brands that are synonymous with refreshment, fun and flavor. We have 6 of the top 10 non-cola soft drinks, and 9 of our 12 "power brands" are No. 1 in their flavor categories. In addition to our flagship Dr Pepper and Snapple brands, our portfolio includes Sunkist soda, 7UP, A&W, Canada Dry, Crush, Mott's, Squirt, Hawaiian Punch, Peafiel, Clamato, Schweppes, Venom Energy, Rose's and Mr & Mrs T mixers. To learn more about our iconic brands and Plano, Texas-based company, please visit .
www.drpeppersnapple.com
 
 
 
 
 
The company reports its financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP. However, management believes that certain non-GAAP measures that reflect the way management evaluates the business may provide investors with additional information regarding the company's results, trends and ongoing performance on a comparable basis. Specifically, investors should consider the following with respect to our quarterly and year-end results:
Net sales and Segment Operating Profit exclude the loss of Hansen product distribution and are on a currency neutral basis.
Net sales and Segment Operating Profit, as adjusted:
 
1) the net gain related to the Hansen contract termination payment as well as the sale of certain distribution rights in 2009 and 2) certain separation-related tax items in 2009.
2009 Effective tax rate excluding certain items:
Reported EPS adjusted for: 1) the net gain related to the Hansen contract termination payment as well as the sale of certain distribution rights in 2009, 2) certain separation-related tax items in 2009 and 3) restructuring costs in 2008.
EPS excluding certain items:
 
2009 expected net sales adjusted for the loss of Hansen product distribution and on a currency neutral basis. 2009 expected earnings per share excluding net gains related to distribution agreement changes and certain separation-related tax items.
2009 Net sales and EPS excluding certain items:


