FILE:DPS/DPS-8K-20090210190428.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
In a press release on February 10, 2009, Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the "Company") announced that its Board of Directors had elected Mike Weinstein, chairman of INOV8 Beverage Company LLC as a Class I director and that he will stand for re-election at the annual stockholder's meeting occurring on May 19, 2009. Mr. Weinstein is co-founder of INOV8 Beverage Company LLC, and through one of its subsidiaries has developed the energy drink HYDRIVE. The Company distributes HYDRIVE and owns a minority interest in this subsidiary. In fiscal year 2008, the Company paid the subsidiary in excess $1.6 million for product, which the Company resold. As a result of this relationship, Mr. Weinstein will not be an independent director and will not serve on certain committees, which require independent directors. In the press release, the Company also announced that John Stewart advised the Board of Directors of the Company that he will not stand for re-election as a Class I director at the annual st ockholder's meeting occurring on May 19, 2009, but will remain on the Board through that meeting. Mr. Stewarts decision to not stand for re-election is not the result of any disagreement with the Company on any matter relating to its operations, policies or practices. Mr. Stewart will continue to serve as the Company's Chief Financial Officer. A copy of the Companys February 10, 2009 press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits 99.1 Press Release issued February 10, 2009
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Dr Pepper Snapple Group (NYSE: DPS) today announced that Mike Weinstein, chairman of INOV8 Beverage Company LLC and a leader in the beverage industry for more than 35 years, has been elected to its board of directors.
PLANO, Texas (Feb. 10, 2009) 
Mr. Weinstein, 60, is a co-founder of INOV8, which specializes in developing and commercializing innovative beverage products such as HYDRIVE energy drink. Dr Pepper Snapple Group holds a minority interest in HYDRIVE Energy LLC, a subsidiary of INOV8. Due to his business relationship with DPS, Mr. Weinstein will not qualify as an independent director.
Additionally, John Stewart, DPS' Chief Financial Officer, has advised the Board that he will not stand for re-election when his initial term expires May 19, 2009. Mr. Stewart will continue to serve as DPS' Chief Financial Officer.
"Mike's wealth of industry experience and success in growing great brands will greatly benefit Dr Pepper Snapple as we pursue our goal of being the best beverage business in the Americas," said Wayne R. Sanders, chairman of the board of DPS. "Through his past association with many of our trusted brands and his background in new product development, Mike has shown himself to be among the most well-respected and capable leaders in the business."  
Mr. Weinstein served as president and chief operating officer of A&W Brands, Inc., in the early '90s and later as chief executive officer of Snapple Beverage Group, which was acquired by Cadbury Schweppes in 2000. During his career, he also has overseen such brands as RC Cola, Squirt, Mistic, Stewart's and Vernor's and has led global innovation and business development teams.  Mr. Weinstein was named to Beverage World magazine's Hall of Fame in 2000 and received Beverage Digest's prestigious "Visionary Award" in 2004.
He holds a bachelor's degree with honors in economics from Lafayette College in Easton, Penn., and a master's degree from Harvard Business School. He is a board member of the H.J. Heinz Company.
Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. is an integrated refreshment beverage business marketing more than 50 beverage brands to consumers throughout North America. In addition to its flagship Dr Pepper and Snapple brands, the company's portfolio includes 7UP, Mott's, A&W, Sunkist Soda, Hawaiian Punch, Canada Dry, Schweppes, Squirt, RC Cola, Diet Rite, Penafiel, Rose's, Yoo-hoo, Clamato, Mr & Mrs T and other well-known consumer favorites. Based in Plano, Texas, Dr Pepper Snapple Group employs approximately 20,000 people and operates 24 bottling and manufacturing facilities and more than 200 distribution centers across the United States, Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean. For more information, please visit www.drpeppersnapple.com.
About Dr Pepper Snapple Group
Greg. Artkop Director of Corporate Communication Dr Pepper Snapple Group (972) 673-8470 greg.artkop@dpsg.com


