FILE:DPS/DPS-8K-20090813093442.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-14(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-14(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 13, 2009, Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the second quarter of its 2009 fiscal year ended June 30, 2009. A copy of such press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and will be published on the Company's web site at The press release includes certain non-generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") financial measures. Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the press release.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com.
On August 13, 2009, the Company will hold a telephone conference and webcast to discuss the Company's financial results for the second quarter of its 2009 fiscal year ended June 30, 2009 and its outlook for the full year. During this conference, the Company will present certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and supplementary information related to these reconciliations will be posted to the Company's website at prior to the start of the call.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1, is deemed to be furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 13, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
Plano, TX, August 13, 2009  Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (NYSE: DPS) reported second quarter 2009 earnings of $0.62 per share. The company reported earnings of $0.42 per share in the prior year period, or $0.60 per share excluding certain items. Year-to-date the company reported earnings of $1.14 per share compared to $0.80 per share in the prior year period. Excluding net gains related to the Hansen contract termination settlement and the sale of certain distribution rights in the current year and restructuring, transaction and separation-related costs in the prior year, the company reported year-to-date earnings of $0.99 per share compared to $1.01 per share in the prior year period.
For the second quarter, reported net sales were down 4%. Excluding the loss of Hansen product distribution and on a currency neutral basis, net sales increased 3% reflecting solid pricing actions and 3% sales volume growth offset by negative mix from higher carbonated soft drink (CSD) concentrate and value juice sales. Segment operating profit, as adjusted, increased 16% reflecting lower commodity and fuel costs, operating benefits from higher volumes and a strong cost control focus. Reported income from operations was $297 million.
DPS President and CEO Larry Young said, "Our results continue to show the strength of our brands and the flexibility of our balanced routes to market. Despite a challenging macroeconomic backdrop, each of our segments posted solid net sales gains, grew liquid refreshment beverages value share and added new points of distribution. Our continuous improvement mindset and strong cost control focus, coupled with better than expected input costs, resulted in double-digit growth in segment operating profit on a comparable, currency neutral basis.
"As we look ahead, we remain confident that our advantaged portfolio will continue to deliver industry leading results. With a less onerous input cost environment, we will take full advantage of
 
marketplace investment opportunities to support the long term health of our brands and will leverage our productivity office to drive further efficiencies in our business."
Volume (BCS), sales volume, net sales and segment operating profit, as adjusted, in the tables and commentary below exclude the loss of Hansen product distribution and are on a currency neutral basis. For a reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures see pages A-5 and A-6 accompanying this release.
 
Volume (BCS)
For the quarter, BCS volume increased 4% with CSDs growing 4% and non-carbonated beverages (NCB) each growing 3%.
In CSDs, Dr Pepper volume was up 4%. "Core 4" brands  7UP, Sunkist, A&W and Canada Dry  were down 2%. 7UP, Canada Dry and A&W were each down less than 1% and Sunkist declined high single digits. Expanded third party bottler distribution added 11 million cases to Crush, more than doubling this business. Fountain/foodservice volume declined less than 1% despite a 2% decline in quick service restaurant (QSR) foot traffic.
In NCBs, Hawaiian Punch volume increased 18% on continued strong promotional activities. Pressure on the company's premium products continued with volume down 12%. Snapple declined 15%, but improved sequentially following its restage and strong media support. Mott's juices and sauces increased 8% driven by promotional activity.
By geography, U.S. and Canada volume increased 4%, and in Mexico and the Caribbean, volume declined 1%.
 
Across all measured channels, as reported by The Nielsen Company, the company grew U.S. CSD dollar share 1.0 percentage point and flavored CSD dollar share by 1.4 percentage points year-to-date.
Sales volume
For the quarter, sales volume increased 3% and was 1 percentage point below BCS volume. Year-to- date sales volume and BCS volume increased 4% each.
 
Beverage Concentrates
Net sales for the quarter increased 6% reflecting sales volume growth led by expanded Crush distribution. Mid-single-digit price increases taken at the beginning of the year were partially offset by higher fountain/foodservice contractual discounts and increased marketplace spending. Segment operating profit increased 8% reflecting net sales growth and cost efficiencies.
Packaged Beverages
Net sales for the quarter increased 3% reflecting sales volume growth and solid pricing actions across CSDs, Snapple, and Mott's, partially offset by negative product mix. The improvement in sales volume was driven by double-digit growth in Hawaiian Punch and high-single-digit growth in Mott's, partially offset by double-digit declines in premium-priced beverages. Segment operating profit increased 36% reflecting net sales growth; lower packaging, ingredient and fuel costs; continued operating efficiencies; and strong cost controls.
Latin America Beverages
Net sales for the quarter increased 3% reflecting favorable channel mix and the impact of company-owned route expansion, partially offset by declines in Squirt. Segment operating profit decreased 20% reflecting higher selling and distribution costs related to channel mix and new routes partially offset by net sales growth.
 
Corporate and other items
For the quarter, corporate costs totaled $61 million reflecting higher stand-alone costs, including stock-based compensation expenses, as well as productivity office investments and the absence of certain credits in the prior year. These cost increases were offset by $8 million of unrealized commodity-related mark-to-market gains. Corporate costs in 2008 were $64 million, including $20 million related to one-time transaction and separation-related costs.
Net interest expense decreased $31 million reflecting the absence of bridge loan fees and expenses and related party interest income both in the prior year.
The effective tax rate was 36.7%. This included a tax expense of $3 million related to certain tax items indemnified by Cadbury.
Cash flow
Year-to-date, the company generated $371 million of cash from operating activities, including a $27 million contribution to its pension plan. Year-to-date net capital spending totaled $134 million. The company repaid $125 million of principal of its floating rate term loan in the quarter. Year-to-date, the company made optional principal repayments of $280 million covering substantially all of its 2010 obligations.
2009 full-year guidance
The company continues to expect full-year 2009 reported net sales to be down 2% to 4%. Excluding the loss of Hansen product distribution and on a currency neutral basis, the company continues to expect net sales to grow 2% to 4%.
Excluding net gains recorded in the first quarter related to distribution agreement changes, the company now expects full-year 2009 earnings per share in the $1.88 to $1.96 range. This reflects an $0.18 per share net increase from the previous guidance driven by:
Consistent with its previous guidance, the company expects to make cash contributions totaling $43 million to its pension and post-retirement benefit plans in 2009 and expects net capital spending to be approximately 5% of net sales.
The company remains committed to using its free cash flow to pay down debt and now expects to reduce its debt obligations by at least $475 million in 2009. This reflects an increase of $75 million from its previous guidance.
Forward-looking statement
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including, in particular, statements about future events, future financial performance, plans, strategies, expectations, prospects, competitive environment, regulation, and cost and availability of raw materials. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be
 
identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "plan," "intend" or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements have been based on our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Our actual financial performance could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to the inherent uncertainty of estimates, forecasts and projections, and our financial performance may be better or worse than anticipated. Given these uncertainties, you should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. All of the forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors discussed under "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date that they were made. We do not undertake any duty to update the forward-looking statements, and the estimates and assumptions associated with them, after the date of this release, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws.
Conference Call
At 10 a.m. (CDT) today, the company will host a conference call with investors to discuss second quarter 2009 results and the outlook for 2009. The conference call and slide presentation will be accessible live through DPS' website at and will be archived for replay for a period of 14 days.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
In discussing financial results and guidance, the company may refer to certain non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of any such non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable financial measures in accordance with GAAP can be found on pages A-5 and A-6 accompanying this release and under "Financial Press Releases" on the company's website at in the "Investors" section.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
Definitions
Volume (BCS) or bottler case sales: Sales of finished beverages, in equivalent 288 fluid ounce cases, sold by the company and its bottling partners to retailers and independent distributors. Volume for products sold by the company and its bottling partners is reported on a monthly basis, with the second quarter comprising April, May, and June.
Sales volume: Sales of concentrates and finished beverages, in equivalent 288 fluid ounce cases, shipped by the company to its bottlers, retailers and independent distributors.
Pricing refers to the impact of list price changes.
About Dr Pepper Snapple
Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (NYSE: DPS) is the leading producer of flavored beverages in North America and the Caribbean. Our success is fueled by more than 50 brands that are synonymous with refreshment, fun and flavor. We have 6 of the top 10 non-cola soft drinks, and 9 of our 12 "power brands" are No. 1 in their flavor categories. In addition to our flagship Dr Pepper and Snapple brands, our portfolio includes Sunkist soda, 7UP, A&W, Canada Dry, Crush, Mott's, Squirt, Hawaiian Punch, Peafiel, Clamato, Schweppes, Venom Energy, Rose's and Mr & Mrs T mixers. To learn more about our iconic brands and Plano, Texas-based company, please visit .
www.drpeppersnapple.com
 
 
 
 
 
The company reports its financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP. However, management believes that certain non-GAAP measures, that reflect the way management evaluates the business, may provide investors with additional information regarding the company's results, trends and ongoing performance on a comparable basis. Specifically, investors should consider the following with respect to our quarterly and year-end results:
Net sales and Segment Operating Profit exclude the loss of Hansen product distribution and are on a currency neutral basis.
Net sales and Segment Operating Profit, as adjusted:
 
Reported EPS adjusted for: 1) the net gain related to the Hansen contract termination payment as well as the sale of certain distribution rights, and 2) restructuring costs in 2008.
EPS excluding certain items:
2009 expected net sales adjusted for the loss of Hansen product distribution and on a currency neutral basis. 2009 expected earnings per share excluding net gains related to distribution agreement changes.
2009 Net sales and EPS excluding certain items:


