FILE:DPS/DPS-8K-20090513092420.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-14(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-14(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 13, 2009, Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter of its 2009 fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. A copy of such press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and will be published on the Company's web site at . The press release includes certain non-generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") financial measures. Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the press release.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
On May 13, 2009, the Company will hold a telephone conference and webcast to discuss the Company's financial results for the first quarter of its 2009 fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 and its outlook for the full year. During this conference, the Company will present certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and supplementary information related to these reconciliations will be posted to the Company's website at prior to the start of the call.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
(d) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1, is deemed to be furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Plano, TX, May 13, 2009  Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (NYSE: DPS) reported first quarter 2009 earnings of $0.52 per share compared to earnings of $0.38 per share in the prior year period. Excluding net gains related to the Hansen contract termination settlement and the sale of certain distribution rights in the current year period as well as restructuring charges in the prior year period, the company earned $0.37 per share compared to $0.40 per share in 2008.
For the first quarter, reported net sales declined 3%. Excluding the loss of Hansen product distribution and on a currency neutral basis, net sales increased 4% on 6% sales volume growth and solid pricing actions. Net sales growth was negatively impacted by a higher mix of carbonated soft drink (CSD) concentrates and value juices. Segment operating profit, as adjusted, increased 18% reflecting lower commodity and fuel costs, operating benefits from higher volumes and a strong cost control focus. Reported income from operations was $265 million including $62 million of net pre-tax gains related to certain distribution agreement changes.
DPS President and CEO Larry Young said, "While the U.S. economy remains weak, consumer sentiment appears to be improving and we're continuing to see a shift in purchase habits toward CSDs and other value offerings. Our portfolio of CSDs and value juices performed extremely well in the quarter led by strong gains in Crush distribution and Hawaiian Punch and solid Dr Pepper and Core 4 growth. Pressure remains at the premium end of the portfolio, especially with Snapple. We're confident, however, that recent product and package changes coupled with strong marketing programs will return this brand to growth toward the end of this year."
Young added, "As we look ahead, we see a North America beverage industry that will be markedly different, yet has the potential to reignite category growth. For DPS, this presents a unique opportunity to build upon our already strong growth prospects. This will require even greater attention to revenue,
 
cost and productivity management and ongoing investments in our brands to ensure we capture our fair share of the growth."
Volume (BCS), sales volume, net sales and segment operating profit, as adjusted, in the tables and commentary below exclude the loss of Hansen product distribution and are on a currency neutral basis. For a reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures see page A-5 accompanying this release.
 
Volume (BCS)
For the quarter, volume increased 5%. CSDs increased 5% and non-carbonated beverages (NCB) increased 6%.
In CSDs, Dr Pepper volume was up 1%. "Core 4" brands  7UP, Sunkist, A&W and Canada Dry  were up slightly. Growth in 7UP, up 3%, and Canada Dry, up 4%, was offset by a 5% decline in Sunkist. Crush volume tripled, adding 10 million cases in the quarter on expanded third party bottler distribution. Fountain/foodservice volume increased 2%.
In NCBs, Hawaiian Punch volume increased 31% on strong promotional activities and favorable comparisons in the prior year period. Pressure on the company's premium products continued with volume down 16% led by a 22% decline in Snapple. Mott's juices and sauces increased 2%. In Mexico, Aguafiel declined 13% reflecting ongoing competitive pressure.
By geography, U.S. and Canada volume increased 6%, and in Mexico and the Caribbean, volume increased 1%.
Across all measured channels, as reported by The Nielsen Company, the company grew U.S. CSD dollar share 0.8 percentage points year-to-date.
 
Sales volume
For the quarter, reported sales volume increased 5%. Sales volume, as adjusted, increased 6% and exceeded BCS volume by one percentage point as third party bottlers built their concentrate inventory positions to support expanded Crush distribution.
 
Beverage Concentrates
Net sales for the quarter increased 11% reflecting sales volume growth led by expanded Crush distribution and mid-single digit price increases taken at the beginning of the year. Segment operating profit increased 21% reflecting net sales growth and lower compensation related costs partially offset by higher marketing investments.
Packaged Beverages
Net sales for the quarter increased 3% reflecting low single-digit sales volume growth in CSDs, strong double-digit sales volume growth in Hawaiian Punch and solid pricing actions across CSDs, Snapple and Mott's partially offset by double-digit sales volume declines in premium beverages and negative product mix. Segment operating profit increased 20% reflecting net sales growth, lower commodity and fuel costs, increased operating efficiencies from higher volumes and strong cost controls.
Latin America Beverages
Net sales for the quarter increased 1% reflecting sales volume growth, led by new route expansion and Crush innovation partially offset by continued softness in Aguafiel. Segment operating profit decreased 14% reflecting net sales growth offset by increased selling and distribution costs related to new routes added toward the end of 2008.
Corporate and other items
For the quarter, corporate costs increased $13 million primarily reflecting higher stand-alone and stock-based compensation costs.
Net interest expense increased $23 million reflecting the absence of related party interest income and the company's capital structure as a stand-alone company.
The effective tax rate was 38.3%. This included a tax expense of $3 million related to certain tax items indemnified by Cadbury.
Cash flow
For the quarter, the company generated $178 million of cash from operating activities and contributed $23 million to its pension and post-retirement benefit plans. Capital spending totaled $78 million. The company repaid $155 million of principal of its floating rate term loan, covering its scheduled repayment obligations through the first half of 2010.
 
2009 full-year guidance
The company continues to expect full year 2009 reported net sales to be down 2% to 4%. Excluding the loss of Hansen product distribution and on a currency neutral basis, the company expects net sales to grow 2% to 4%.
Excluding net gains related to distribution agreement changes, the company now expects full year 2009 earnings per share in the $1.70 to $1.78 range. This reflects an $0.11 per share increase from our previous guidance and is driven by:
In support of new product launches, the company expects to incur a greater portion of its annual marketing spend in the second quarter of 2009 compared to 2008, where the spend was in the third quarter.
The company expects to make cash contributions totaling $43 million to its pension and post-retirement benefit plans in 2009.
Capital spending is expected to be approximately 5% of net sales.
The company remains committed to using its free cash flow to pay down debt and expects to reduce its debt obligations by at least $400 million in 2009.
Segment reporting changes
Effective January 1, 2009, the company modified its internal reporting and operating segments to better reflect its business structure and provide greater clarity and transparency. The new operating segments comprise Beverage Concentrates, Packaged Beverages and Latin America Beverages.
The company provided unaudited supplemental information presenting historical results under the new segment reporting format in an 8-K filed April 30, 2009.
Forward looking statement
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including, in particular, statements about future events, future financial performance, plans, strategies, expectations, prospects, competitive environment, regulation, and cost and availability of raw materials. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "plan," "intend" or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements have been based on our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Our actual financial performance could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to the inherent uncertainty of estimates, forecasts and projections, and our financial performance may be better or worse than anticipated.
 
Given these uncertainties, you should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. All of the forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors discussed under "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date that they were made. We do not undertake any duty to update the forward-looking statements, and the estimates and assumptions associated with them, after the date of this release, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws.
Conference Call
At 10 a.m. (CDT) today, the company will host a conference call with investors to discuss first quarter 2009 results and the outlook for 2009. The conference call and slide presentation will be accessible live through DPS' website at and will be archived for replay for a period of 14 days.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
In discussing financial results and guidance, the company may refer to certain non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of any such non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable financial measures in accordance with GAAP can be found under "Financial Press Releases" on the company's website at in the "Investors" section.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
Definitions
Volume (BCS) or bottler case sales: Sales of finished beverages, in equivalent 288 fluid ounce cases, sold by the company and its bottling partners to retailers and independent distributors. Volume for products sold by the company and its bottling partners is reported on a monthly basis, with the first quarter comprising January, February and March.
Sales volume: Sales of concentrate and finished beverages, in equivalent 288 fluid ounce cases, shipped by the company to its bottlers, retailers and independent distributors.
Pricing refers to the impact of list price changes.
About Dr Pepper Snapple Group
Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (NYSE: DPS) is the leading producer of flavored beverages in North America and the Caribbean. Our success is fueled by more than 50 brands that are synonymous with refreshment, fun and flavor. We have 6 of the top 10 non-cola soft drinks, and 8 of our 12 "power brands" are No. 1 in their flavor categories. In addition to our flagship Dr Pepper and Snapple brands, our portfolio includes Sunkist soda, 7UP, A&W, Canada Dry, Crush, Mott's, Squirt, Hawaiian Punch, Peafiel, Clamato, Schweppes, Rose's and Mr & Mrs T mixers. To learn more about our iconic brands and Plano, Texas-based company, please visit .
www.drpeppersnapple.com
 
 
 
 
 
The company reports its financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP. However, management believes that certain non-GAAP measures, which reflect the way management evaluates the business, may provide investors with additional information regarding the company's results, trends and ongoing performance on a comparable basis. Specifically, investors should consider the following with respect to our quarterly and year-end results:
Net sales and Segment Operating Profit exclude the loss of Hansen product distribution and are on a currency neutral basis.
Net sales and Segment Operating Profit, as adjusted:
Reported EPS adjusted for: 1) the net gain related to the Hansen contract termination payment as well as the sale of certain distribution rights, and 2) restructuring costs in 2008.
EPS excluding certain items:
2009 expected net sales adjusted for the loss of Hansen product distribution and on a currency neutral basis. 2009 expected earnings per share excluding net gains related to distribution agreement changes
2009 Net sales and EPS excluding certain items:


