FILE:DPS/DPS-8K-20090326091314.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-14(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-14(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On March 26, 2009, Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. A copy of such press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and will be published on the Company's web site at . The press release includes certain non-generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") financial measures. Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the press release.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
On March 26, 2009, the Company will hold a telephone conference and webcast to discuss the Company's financial results for the fourth quarter and for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. During this conference, the Company will present certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and supplementary information related to these reconciliations will be posted to the Company's website at prior to the start of the call.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
(d) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1, is deemed to be furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
2
Table of Contents
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
3
Table of Contents
4

Exhibit 99.1
Plano, TX, March 26, 2009  Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (NYSE: DPS) reported a fourth quarter 2008 loss of $2.44 per share compared to earnings of $0.54 per share in the prior year period. Due to the recent deterioration in macroeconomic and market conditions, the company recorded a non-cash, after-tax impairment charge of $696 million or $2.74 per share in the quarter related to goodwill and certain intangible assets. Excluding this charge and certain other items, the company earned $0.39 per share compared to $0.48 per share in the prior year period.
For the fourth quarter, net sales declined 1% and the loss from operations totaled $836 million compared to income of $273 million in the prior year period. Excluding the impact of glaceau and Hansen U.S. product distribution losses, net sales increased 3% reflecting a 1% increase in sales volume and the ongoing benefit of pricing actions taken earlier in the year. Segment operating profit increased 4% reflecting continuing strength in the company's carbonated soft drinks (CSD) business.
For the year, the company reported a loss of $1.23 per share compared to earnings of $1.96 per share in the prior year period. Excluding certain items, the company earned $1.85 per share compared to $1.98 per share in the prior year period. The company generated $709 million of cash from operating activities. Since its separation from Cadbury in May 2008, the company has repaid $395 million of principal of its floating rate term loan, covering both its 2008 and 2009 obligations.
DPS President and CEO Larry Young said, "With the U.S. economy facing its worst recession in postwar times and rising unemployment rates, consumers have dramatically changed the way they shop. Value, quality, product satisfaction and increased at-home usage are key factors in purchasing decisions. With our portfolio of leading flavored CSDs and value-priced juices, we continue to offer consumers affordable treats every day. For the quarter, our CSD case volume contracted only slightly at a time when liquid refreshment beverages declined low single-digits. Weak demand for our premium products, especially Snapple, continued during the fourth quarter and in to 2009.
 
"While we have certainly increased our focus on cost containment, we remain committed to our long-term strategy and continue to invest behind growth initiatives. Stepped up marketing spend and increased media leverage ensure we are reaching more consumers every day.
"In our first year as a public company, and in what is arguably one of the toughest economic environments on record, we are proud of what we have accomplished so far." Young added, "Our CSD and value juice momentum continues and, together with expanded distribution of Crush, we're off to a solid start in 2009. The strength of our brands, the passion of our people and strong relationships with our retail partners and bottlers, along with the realization of a strengthened company owned route-to-market, provide the fuel that will support our growth plans for many years to come."
Volume (BCS), sales volume, net sales and segment operating profit, as adjusted, in the table and commentary below are net of intersegment eliminations and foreign currency and exclude the impact of glaceau and Hansen U.S. distribution losses and the acquisition of SeaBev. For a reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures see pages A-5 to A-7 accompanying this release.
BCS  bottler case sales
 
Volume (BCS)
For the quarter, volume declined 1%. CSDs declined less than 1% and non-carbonated beverages (NCBs) decreased 2%.
In CSDs, Dr Pepper volume was up 0.5%. "Core 4" brands  7UP, Sunkist, A&W and Canada Dry  were flat driven primarily by Canada Dry which was up 4% as Green Tea Ginger Ale continued to gain momentum. 7UP volume was down 4% in line with trends seen in the third quarter. In Mexico, Peafiel declined high single-digits reflecting substantially weaker economic conditions.
In NCBs, Hawaiian Punch volume increased 19% on second half promotional activities and favorable comparisons in the prior year period. Pressure on the company's premium products continued with Snapple volume down 17%. Mott's juices and sauces declined 9% on mid-single-digit price increases taken at the beginning of October 2008. In Mexico, Aguafiel declined 15% on single-digit price increases taken earlier in the year.
By geography, U.S. and Canada volume declined less than 1%, and in Mexico and the Caribbean, volume declined 2%.
For the year, CSD volume declined 1% and NCBs were flat. Dr Pepper volume declined less than 1% and Core 4 brands declined 2%. Hawaiian Punch and Mott's volume grew 9% and 2%, respectively, and was offset by Snapple declines of 7% and Aguafiel declines of 17%. By geography, U.S. and Canada volume declined 1%, and in Mexico and the Caribbean, volume declined 4%.
Sales volume
For the quarter, sales volume increased 1% on higher than expected concentrate sales to third-party bottlers reflecting inventory build ahead of the January 1, 2009 concentrate price increase as well as expanded distribution of Crush. For the year, sales volume decreased slightly.
Net sales
Net sales for the quarter increased 3% reflecting sales volume growth and the ongoing benefits of price increases taken earlier in the year. Beverage concentrates net sales increased 9% reflecting the higher than expected concentrate sales to third-party bottlers and lower discounts to customers. Weaker premium beverage trends impacted Finished Goods with price/mix decreasing low single digits. Bottling Group continued to benefit from high single-digit price increases taken earlier in the year as well as favorable mix.
The impact of foreign currency reduced total company net sales growth by 2 percentage points for the quarter and had no net impact on full year growth. The impact of foreign currency reduced Mexico and Caribbean net sales growth by 14 percentage points for the quarter and 1 percentage point for the full year.
Across all measured channels, as reported by The Nielsen Company, the company grew U.S. CSD dollar share 0.3 percentage points for the quarter and 0.2 percentage points for the full year.
Segment operating profit
For the quarter, segment operating profit increased 4% reflecting net sales growth and savings from the 2007 restructuring program offset by high single-digit COGS per case increases and the impact of foreign currency, which reduced segment operating profit growth by 2 percentage points.
 
Higher than expected concentrate sales to third-party bottlers, ahead of the January price increase and Crush inventory build, as well as lower than expected fuel costs contributed $12 million to operating profit growth for the quarter.
For the year, segment operating profit was flat. Net sales growth and savings from the 2007 restructuring program were offset by high single-digit COGS per case increases and higher fountain/foodservice discounts, transportation and labor costs. Foreign currency had no net impact on the full year segment operating profit growth.
Corporate and other items
For the quarter, restructuring costs were $26 million. This amount included $16 million of additional pension expenses related to a previously announced restructuring action.
Unallocated general and administrative costs were $15 million reflecting steady state stand-alone costs.
In accordance with SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," and due to deteriorating macroeconomic and market conditions in the fourth quarter, the carrying values of both the Bottling Group's goodwill and distribution rights and the Snapple brand intangible were reduced to their fair values. The non-cash, after-tax impairment charge was $696 million.
Net interest expense increased $24 million to $56 million reflecting the absence of related party interest income in light of the company's new capital structure as a stand-alone company.
The effective tax rate was 29.5%. This included a tax benefit of $343 million related to impairment, a tax expense of $12 million related to certain tax items indemnified by Cadbury and a $5 million tax expense for additional items related to separation. Excluding these items, the tax rate for the quarter was 45.5%. Higher than expected deferred tax expense items and unfavorable territory mix adversely impacted the tax rate for the quarter by $9 million.
For the year, the effective tax rate was 16.3% which included $343 million related to impairment, $19 million related to Cadbury indemnified items and $16 million related to separation.
Cash flow
For the year, the company generated $709 million of cash from operating activities. Capital spending totaled $304 million. The company repaid $395 million of principal of its floating rate term loan, covering both its 2008 and 2009 obligations.
2009 full-year guidance
The company expects full year 2009 net sales to decline 2% to 4%. Excluding the impact of the loss of Hansen product distribution and on a currency neutral basis the company expects comparable net sales to grow 2% to 4%.
The company will record a net one-time pre-tax gain of $51 million, or $0.12 per share, in the first quarter of 2009 related to the Hansen contract termination in the U.S. and Mexico. Excluding this item, the company expects earnings per share of approximately $1.59 to $1.67.
The full year tax rate is expected to be approximately 39% to 40% which includes approximately $16 million of charges related to items that are indemnified by Cadbury.
 
Unfavorable comparisons to prior year are expected to be more pronounced in the first half reflecting the impact of our stand-alone financial structure as well as a shift in marketing expenses to coincide with the timing of innovation and increased consumer communications. Additionally, the Easter holiday falls in the second quarter in 2009 versus the first quarter in 2008.
The company expects to make cash contributions of $43 million to its pension and post-retirement benefit plans in 2009.
Capital spending is expected to be approximately 5% of net sales.
The company remains committed to using its free cash flow to pay down debt and expects to reduce its debt obligations by at least $400 million, prepaying all of 2010 and part of 2011 principal.
Segment reporting changes
Effective with its first quarter 2009 results, the company will begin reporting three operating segments:
In aligning its reporting structure, the company is changing the following:
In addition, the financial metric measuring the segment's operating results will be redefined from Underlying Operating Profit (UOP) to the Segment Operating Profit (SOP) level.
These changes are designed to provide greater clarity and transparency into the economic drivers of each business, ensure resources are allocated for maximum return and drive efficiency through simplification and reduction of non value-added intercompany transactions.
To assist investors, the company expects to provide unaudited supplemental information presenting historical results under the new segment reporting format by the end of April 2009.
Restatement of net sales and cost of sales intercompany eliminations
The company identified certain intercompany transactions that should have been eliminated in consolidation. The correction equally reduces net sales and cost of sales in the 2008 and prior year periods and has no impact on gross profit, income from operations, net income, cash flows or balance sheet. For full year 2008, net sales and cost of sales were each reduced by $50 million. For fourth
 
quarter 2007, net sales and cost of sales were each reduced by $13 million, and for full year 2007, each were reduced by $53 million.
Forward looking statement
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including, in particular, statements about future events, future financial performance, plans, strategies, expectations, prospects, competitive environment, regulation, and cost and availability of raw materials. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "plan," "intend" or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements have been based on our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Our actual financial performance could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to the inherent uncertainty of estimates, forecasts and projections, and our financial performance may be better or worse than anticipated. Given these uncertainties, you should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. All of the forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors discussed under "Risk Factors" in our Quarterly Report on Form 10Q and "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," and elsewhere in our Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on April 22, 2008 and our other filings with the SEC. Forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date that they were made. We do not undertake any duty to update the forward-looking statements, and the estimates and assumptions associated with them, after the date of this release, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws.
Conference Call
At 10 a.m. (CDT) today, the company will host a conference call with investors to discuss fourth quarter 2008 results and the outlook for 2009. The conference call and slide presentation will be accessible live through DPS' website at and will be archived for replay for a period of 14 days.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
In discussing financial results and guidance, the company may refer to certain non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of any such non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable financial measures in accordance with GAAP can be found under "Financial Press Releases" on the company's website at in the "Investors" section.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
Definitions
Volume (BCS) or bottler case sales: Sales of finished beverages, in equivalent 288 fluid ounce cases, sold by the company and its bottling partners to retailers and independent distributors. Volume for products sold by the company and its bottling partners is reported on a monthly basis, with the fourth quarter comprising October, November and December.
Sales volume: Sales of concentrate and finished beverages, in equivalent 288 fluid ounce cases, shipped by the company to its bottlers, retailers and independent distributors.
Price/mix refers to the combined impact of list price changes, discounts and allowances and the relative mix of the brands, products, packages and channels. Pricing refers to the impact of list price changes.
 
COGS per case: Cost of sales as reported divided by the sales volume in the quarter.
About Dr Pepper Snapple Group
Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc., (NYSE: DPS) is an integrated refreshment beverage business marketing more than 50 beverage brands to consumers throughout North America. In addition to its flagship Dr Pepper and Snapple brands and trademarks, the company's portfolio includes 7UP, Mott's, A&W, Sunkist Soda, Hawaiian Punch, Canada Dry, Schweppes, Squirt, RC Cola, Diet Rite, Penafiel, Rose's, Yoo-hoo, Clamato, Mr & Mrs T and other well-known consumer favorites. Based in Plano, Texas, Dr Pepper Snapple Group employs approximately 20,000 people and operates 24 bottling and manufacturing facilities and more than 200 distribution centers across the United States, Canada, Mexico and the Caribbean. For more information, please visit .
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The company reports its financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP. However, management believes that certain non-GAAP measures, that reflect the way management evaluates the business, may provide investors with additional information regarding the company's results, trends and ongoing performance on a comparable basis. Specifically, investors should consider the following with respect to our quarterly and year-end results:
Net sales and segment underlying operating profit adjusted for 1) Jan. 1 to Jul. 10 2008 results related to the acquisition of Southeast-Atlantic Beverage Corporation ("SeaBev") in Jul. 11 2007; 2) Jan. 1 to Nov. 2, 2007 and Nov. 11 to Dec. 31 2007 results related to the loss of distribution agreements for glaceau and Hansen U.S. products which were terminated Nov. 2 2007 and Nov. 10 2008, respectively; and, 3) Intersegment eliminations and the impact of foreign currency at the segment level.
Net sales and Segment underlying operating profit excluding SeaBev, glaceau and Hansen:
 
 
(Loss) Income from operations before: 1) unallocated general and administrative expenses and other costs; 2) restructuring costs; 3) transaction costs and other one-time separation costs; 4) stock based-compensation expense; 5) amortization expense related to intangible assets; 6) the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets; 7) a one-time gain on the termination of the glaceau distribution agreement; and 8) other adjustments.
Segment underlying operating profit:
 
Effective tax rate adjusted for: 1) the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets; 2) One-time tax items related to separation; and, 3) items indemnified by Cadbury.
Effective tax rate excluding certain items:
 
Reported EPS adjusted for: 1) the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets in 2008 and 2007; 2) restructuring costs in 2008 and 2007; 3) transaction costs and other one-time separation costs; 4) a one-time gain on the termination of the glaceau distribution agreement in 2007; and, 5) one-time tax items related to separation
EPS excluding certain items:
2009 expected net sales and earnings per share adjusted for: 1) the loss of Hansen product distribution; and 2) Foreign currency
2009 Net sales and EPS excluding certain items:


