FILE:DPS/DPS-8K-20101228162404.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On December 28, 2010, the Wall Street Journal published an interview conducted earlier in the fourth quarter 2010 with Larry Young, President and Chief Executive Officer of Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the "Company"). In the interview, Mr. Young said that he expected that the Company was "looking at total cost of goods up 2%" in 2011. Based on recent rises in commodities and other input costs, the Company now expects the 2011 total cost of sales inflation, on a constant product and constant mix basis, to be up in the mid single-digit range. The Company continues to expect to use a combination of price and mix, as well as productivity improvements, to offset such inflationary pressures. This Form 8-K is being furnished solely as an update of Mr. Youngs prior statements published by the Wall Street Journal on December 28, 2010, and to satisfy the requirements of Regulation FD. The Company expects to provide its 2011 guidance in its earnings release and related earnings call for the fourth quarter of the 2010 calendar year, which it anticipates will be in February, 2011. The furnishing of the information under Item 7.01 in this Current Report on Form 8-K is not intended to, and does not, constitute a determination or admission by the Company that the information under Item 7.01 in this Current Report on Form 8-K is material or complete, or that investors should consider this information before making an investment decision with respect to any security of the Company. The information in this report is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Forward-looking statements This disclosure contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including, in particular, statements about future events, plans, strategies, expectations and prospects. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words may, will, expect, anticipate, believe, estimate, plan, intend or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements have been based on our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Our actual financial performance could differ materially from those projected in the forward- looking statements due to the inherent uncertainty of estimates, forecasts and projections, and our financial performance may be better or worse than anticipated. Given these uncertainties, you should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. All of the forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors discussed under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date that they were made. We do not undertake any duty to update the forward-looking statements, and the estimates and assumptions associated with them, after the date of this release, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


