FILE:DPS/DPS-8K-20100216185041.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On February 16, 2010, Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the "Company") announced that Martin M. Ellen will become the Company's Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer effective April 1, 2010. Mr. Ellen will succeed John O. Stewart, who has earlier announced his plans to retire. Mr. Ellen, 56, has over twenty-five years experience serving as a chief financial officer with companies in the manufacturing, distribution, and service industries. For the last eight years, Mr. Ellen has served as Snap-on Incorporated's senior vice president-finance and chief financial officer. In connection with his appointment, Mr. Ellen received and has agreed to the terms of an offer letter ("Letter of Understanding") providing for (i) an annual base salary of $525,000, (ii) a target bonus of 90% of base salary with a maximum payment of 180% of base salary, subject to CEO and compensation committee approval, (iii) eligibility for annual equity awards comprised of restricted stock units and stock options, targeted at 250% of base salary, under the Company's Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan of 2009, (iv) an initial equity grant for fiscal year 2010 with a value of $1,312,500 (with such grant being comprised of 70% restricted stock units and 30% stock options), and (v) the Company's standard executive employee benefits. The Letter of Understanding also provides that to replace the equity awards that Mr. Ellen will lose when he leaves his current employer, the Company will award Mr. Ellen non-qualified stock options and restricted stock units (comprised of 70% restricted stock units and 30% stock options) with a total cash value of $3,750,000, vesting ratably over a five year period. Mr. Ellen will also participate in the Company's Severance Pay Plan for Salaried Employees and the Company's Change in Control Severance Plan. The above description of the Letter of Understanding is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the Letter of Understanding. Mr. Ellen did not have any prior related transactions with the Company or any family relationships with any director or officer of the Company. A copy of the Press Release announcing Mr. Ellen's appointment is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits 99.1 Press Release issued by the Company dated February 16, 2010 - "Dr Pepper Snapple Group Names Martin M. Ellen Chief Financial Officer".
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tina Barry, (972) 673-7931 Greg Artkop, (972) 673-8470
Media Contacts:
Aly Noormohamed, (972) 673-6050
Investor Relations:
Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (NYSE: DPS) today announced that Martin M. Ellen will join the company as executive vice president and chief financial officer on April 1, 2010. In addition to his strong background in finance, Mr. Ellen will bring considerable experience in franchising, operations and the beverage industry.
PLANO, Texas, February 16, 2010
At DPS, he will be responsible for the company's finance and IT organizations and will report to Larry Young, president and chief executive officer. He will succeed John O. Stewart who last year announced his plans to retire on March 31, 2010.
"Marty's extensive public company experience and involvement in strategy and operations, as well as finance, will bring valuable perspective to our executive leadership team as we continue to build on DPS's position as the industry leader in flavored beverages," Mr. Young said. "I am grateful for John's many contributions to our business and look forward to working with Marty to take our young company to the next level of financial and operating success."
Mr. Ellen, 56, will join DPS following almost eight years as senior vice president  finance and chief financial officer of Snap-on Incorporated (NYSE: SNA), a $2.4 billion global innovator, manufacturer and marketer of tools, diagnostics, equipment, software and service solutions for professional users. He has over 25 years of broad experience serving as chief financial officer with companies in the manufacturing, distribution, franchising and services industries, including Whitman Corporation, which then owned Pepsi Cola General Bottlers, Inc. While at Whitman, Mr. Ellen was instrumental in developing and executing strategy, which included realigning and expanding Pepsi bottling territories in the U.S. and central Europe. He began his career with the international accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers in Chicago.
Mr. Ellen holds a Bachelor of Science degree in accounting from the University of Illinois and a master's in business administration from the J.L. Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University, where he currently serves on the alumni advisory board. He is a certified public accountant.
Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (NYSE: DPS) is the leading producer of flavored beverages in North America and the Caribbean. Our success is fueled by more than 50 brands that are synonymous with refreshment, fun and flavor. We have 6 of the top 10 non-cola soft drinks, and 9 of our 12 "power brands" are No. 1 in their flavor categories. In addition to our flagship Dr Pepper and Snapple brands, our portfolio includes Sunkist soda, 7UP, A&W, Canada Dry, Crush, Mott's, Squirt, Hawaiian Punch, Penafiel, Clamato, Schweppes, Venom Energy, Rose's and Mr & Mrs T mixers. To learn more about our iconic brands and Plano, Texas-based company, please visit .
About Dr Pepper Snapple Group
www.drpeppersnapple.com


