FILE:DPS/DPS-8K-20101027085628.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-14(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-14(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 27, 2010, Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of its 2010 fiscal year ended September 30, 2010. A copy of such press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and will be published on the Company's web site at . The press release includes certain non-generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") financial measures. Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the press release.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
On October 27, 2010, the Company will hold a telephone conference and webcast to discuss the Company's financial results for the third quarter of its 2010 fiscal year ended September 30, 2010 and its outlook for the full year. During this conference, the Company will present certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and supplementary information related to these reconciliations will be posted to the Company's website at prior to the start of the call.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     
(d) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1, is deemed to be furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Plano, TX, Oct. 27, 2010  Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (NYSE: DPS) reported third quarter 2010 diluted earnings of $0.60 per share, including $0.04 of strike-related costs, compared to $0.59 per share in the prior year period. Diluted earnings per share were $0.60 compared to $0.54 in the prior year excluding separation-related tax items. Year-to-date, the company reported earnings of $1.68 per diluted share compared to $1.73 per share in the prior year period. Excluding a separation-related foreign deferred tax charge in the current year and a net gain on certain distribution agreement changes and separation-related tax items in the prior year, the company earned $1.73 per diluted share, an increase of 13%, compared to $1.53 in the prior year-to-date period.
For the quarter, sales volume increased 1%. Branded sales volume grew 3% and was partially offset by a 32% decline in contract manufacturing as the company continued to de-emphasize this business. Net sales increased 2% reflecting sales volume growth and revenue recognized under the PepsiCo, Inc. (PepsiCo) licensing agreements. Concentrate pricing taken earlier in the year was more than offset by increased promotional trade spending and the continued impact of negative product mix on sales. Segment operating profit (SOP) decreased 6% as net sales growth and supply chain productivity benefits were more than offset by higher packaging, ingredient and transportation costs, incremental costs of $15 million to meet customer demand during a strike at a Northeast manufacturing facility and higher marketplace investments. Reported income from operations for the quarter was $260 million compared to $272 million in the prior year period and $757 million year-to-date compared to $834 million in the prior year period.
DPS President and CEO Larry Young said, "Our portfolio of CSDs and value juices continued to post solid volume and share gains, further demonstrating their value to consumers. During the quarter, we saw continued strong growth in Snapple, we launched a refreshed crisp, clean 7UP, kicked off a number of important Rapid Continuous Improvement (RCI) initiatives that we believe will further strengthen our integrated operating platform and, on Oct. 4, 2010, completed the licensing of certain brands to The Coca-Cola Company. We also successfully concluded labor negotiations at our Williamson, N.Y., manufacturing facility making its long term cost structure more competitive. With
 
improving LRB trends in the U.S., we remain focused on delivering on our commitments for 2010, while building solid plans for 2011 and beyond."
EPS  earnings per share
Net sales and SOP in the tables and commentary below are presented on a currency neutral basis. For a reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures see page A-5 accompanying this release.
BCS  bottler case sales
For the quarter, BCS volume increased 2% with carbonated soft drinks (CSDs) growing 1% and non-carbonated beverages (NCBs) up 5%. Year-to-date, BCS volume increased 3%, with CSDs growing 2% and NCBs up 4%.
BCS Volume
In CSDs, Dr Pepper volume increased 2%. "Core 4" brands  7UP, Sunkist soda, A&W and Canada Dry  declined 1%. Canada Dry and Crush grew double digits and A&W grew low-single digits while 7UP and Sunkist soda declined mid-single digits. Fountain foodservice volume increased 5%.
In NCBs, Hawaiian Punch volume grew 7%, Snapple grew 10% and Mott's grew 3%.
By geography, volume increased 3% in the U.S. and 2% in Canada while volume declined 3% in Mexico and the Caribbean.
Across all measured channels year-to-date, as reported by The Nielsen Company, the company grew U.S. CSD dollar share and flavored CSD dollar share by 0.4 percentage points.
 
For the quarter, sales volume increased 1%. Branded sales volume grew 3% while contract manufacturing declined 32%, as the company continued to de-emphasize this business. Year-to-date sales volume was flat. Branded sales volume grew 2% while contract manufacturing declined 28%.
Sales volume
Net sales for the quarter increased 7% reflecting 3% sales volume growth and revenue recognized from the PepsiCo licensing agreements. Low-single digit concentrate price increases taken at the beginning of the year were fully offset by increased marketplace spending. Segment operating profit increased 14% reflecting net sales growth as well as continued positive cost performance.
Beverage Concentrates
Net sales for the quarter were up slightly. Low-single digit volume growth in CSDs and Mott's and double-digit volume growth in Snapple and Hawaiian Punch were fully offset by lower contract manufacturing activity, higher levels of promotional trade spending and the continued impact of negative product mix. Segment operating profit decreased 21% as net sales growth and ongoing supply chain productivity benefits were more than offset by higher packaging, ingredient and transportation costs, incremental costs of $15 million incurred to meet customer demand during a strike at a Northeast manufacturing facility and higher marketing investments.
Packaged Beverages
Net sales for the quarter decreased 3% as sales volume growth was more than offset by increased promotional trade spending. Segment operating profit declined 67% reflecting lower net sales, higher marketing investments and increased costs related to company-owned route expansion and IT infrastructure upgrades.
Latin America Beverages
 
For the quarter, corporate costs totaled $63 million including $4 million of unrealized commodity-related mark-to-market gains. Corporate costs in 2009 were $65 million, including $3 million of unrealized commodity-related mark-to-market gains.
Corporate and other items
For the quarter, productivity office investments recorded in the segments as well as corporate were $7 million.
Net interest expense decreased $19 million during the quarter reflecting lower net debt and lower interest rates.
For the quarter, the effective tax rate was 37.7%. The tax rate also included a $3 million tax expense related to certain tax items indemnified by Kraft Foods Inc. and/or one of its subsidiaries (Kraft) as well as ongoing tax planning benefits.
Year-to-date, the company generated $1.5 billion of cash from operating activities including a $900 million one-time payment from PepsiCo. Net capital spending totaled $154 million. The company repaid $405 million of its debt obligations and returned $1.05 billion to shareholders in the form of stock repurchases ($910 million) and dividends ($136 million).
Cash flow
The company now expects full year net sales to increase 1% to 2%. Reported diluted earnings per share are expected to be $2.30 to $2.38, which includes a $0.01 net benefit from the recently signed licensing agreements with The Coca-Cola Company. The company remains on track to invest incrementally in brand health over the year. The effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 38%, including a $13 million separation-related foreign deferred tax charge recorded in the first quarter. This rate also includes approximately $13 million of items indemnified by Kraft as well as ongoing tax planning benefits. Excluding the separation-related foreign deferred tax charge, full year 2010 diluted earnings per share are expected to be $2.35 to $2.43.
2010 full year guidance
The company expects net capital spending to be approximately 5% of net sales and expects to repurchase at least $1 billion of its common stock in 2010 subject to market conditions.
On Feb. 26, 2010, the company completed its licensing agreements with PepsiCo. Under these agreements, PepsiCo began distributing Dr Pepper, Crush and Schweppes in the U.S. territories where these brands were previously distributed by The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. (PBG) and PepsiAmericas, Inc. (PAS). The same applies to Dr Pepper, Crush, Schweppes, Vernors and Sussex in Canada, and Squirt and Canada Dry in Mexico. These agreements have an initial term of 20 years, with 20-year renewal periods, and require PepsiCo to meet certain performance conditions.
Impact of the PepsiCo licensing agreements
Additionally, in certain U.S. territories where it has a manufacturing and distribution footprint, the company has begun selling certain owned and licensed brands, including Sunkist soda, Squirt, Vernors and Hawaiian Punch, that were previously distributed by PBG and PAS.
The one-time cash payment of $900 million, received Feb. 26, 2010, was recorded as deferred revenue and is being recognized as net sales over 25 years. The company recognized $9 million of revenue in the third quarter.
 
On Oct. 4, 2010, the company completed its licensing agreements with The Coca-Cola Company and/or its affiliates (KO). Under the new agreements, KO will distribute Dr Pepper in the U.S. and Canada Dry in the Northeast U.S. where they were previously distributed by Coca-Cola Enterprises (CCE). The new agreements will have an initial term of 20 years, with 20-year renewal periods, and will require KO to meet certain performance conditions. KO will distribute Canada Dry, C'Plus and Schweppes in Canada, will offer Dr Pepper and Diet Dr Pepper in local fountain accounts previously serviced by CCE and will include Dr Pepper and Diet Dr Pepper on its Freestyle fountain dispenser.
Impact of the Coca-Cola Company licensing agreements
Additionally, in certain U.S. territories where it has a manufacturing and distribution footprint, the company will shortly begin selling Squirt, Canada Dry, Schweppes and Cactus Cooler, which were previously sold by CCE.
The one-time cash payment of $715 million was received on Oct. 4, 2010, was recorded as deferred revenue and is being recognized as net sales over 25 years.
Bottler case sales (BCS) volume: Sales of finished beverages, in equivalent 288 fluid ounce cases, sold by the company and its bottling partners to retailers and independent distributors and excludes contract manufacturing volume. Volume for products sold by the company and its bottling partners is reported on a monthly basis, with the third quarter comprising July, August and September.
Definitions
Sales volume: Sales of concentrates and finished beverages, in equivalent 288 fluid ounce cases, shipped by the company to its bottlers, retailers and independent distributors and includes contract manufacturing volume.
Pricing refers to the impact of list price changes.
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including, in particular, statements about future events, future financial performance, plans, strategies, expectations, prospects, competitive environment, regulation, and cost and availability of raw materials. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "plan," "intend" or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements have been based on our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Our actual financial performance could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to the inherent uncertainty of estimates, forecasts and projections, and our financial performance may be better or worse than anticipated. Given these uncertainties, you should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. All of the forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors discussed under "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date that they were made. We do not undertake any duty to update the forward-looking statements, and the estimates and assumptions associated with them, after the date of this release, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws.
Forward-looking statements
 
At 10 a.m. (CDT) today, the company will host a conference call with investors to discuss third quarter 2010 results and the outlook for 2010. The conference call and slide presentation will be accessible live through DPS's website at and will be archived for replay for a period of 14 days.
Conference Call
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
In discussing financial results and guidance, the company may refer to certain non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of any such non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable financial measures in accordance with GAAP can be found on page A-5 accompanying this release and under "Financial Press Releases" on the company's website at in the "Investors" section.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (NYSE: DPS) is the leading producer of flavored beverages in North America and the Caribbean. Our success is fueled by more than 50 brands that are synonymous with refreshment, fun and flavor. We have 6 of the top 10 non-cola soft drinks, and 9 of our 12 leading brands are No. 1 in their flavor categories. In addition to our flagship Dr Pepper and Snapple brands, our portfolio includes Sunkist soda, 7UP, A&W, Canada Dry, Crush, Mott's, Squirt, Hawaiian Punch, Peafiel, Clamato, Schweppes, Venom Energy, Rose's and Mr & Mrs T mixers. To learn more about our iconic brands and Plano, Texas-based company, please visit .
About Dr Pepper Snapple Group
www.drpeppersnapple.com
 
 
 
 
 
The company reports its financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP. However, management believes that certain non-GAAP measures, that reflect the way management evaluates the business, may provide investors with additional information regarding the company's results, trends and ongoing performance on a comparable basis. Specifically, investors should consider the following with respect to our quarterly results:
Net sales and Segment Operating Profit are on a currency neutral basis.
Net sales and Segment Operating Profit, as adjusted:
Reported diluted EPS adjusted for separation-related foreign deferred tax charge in 2010 and a net gain related to the Hansen contract termination payment as well as the sale of certain distribution rights in 2009 and certain separation related tax items.
EPS excluding certain items:


