FILE:DPS/DPS-8K-20100506084820.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On May 6, 2010, Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter of its 2010 fiscal year ended March 31, 2010. A copy of such press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and will be published on the Company's web site at http://www.drpeppersnapple.com. The press release includes certain non-generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") financial measures. Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the press release.
On May 6, 2010, the Company will hold a telephone conference and webcast to discuss the Company's financial results for the first quarter of its 2010 fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 and its outlook for the full year. During this conference, the Company will present certain non-GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and supplementary information related to these reconciliations will be posted to the Company's website at http://www.drpeppersnapple.com prior to the start of the call.
     
(d) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1, is deemed to be furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
SIGNATURES
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Plano, TX, May 6, 2010  Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (NYSE: DPS) reported first quarter 2010 diluted earnings of $0.35 per share compared to $0.52 per share in the prior year period. Excluding a separation-related foreign deferred tax charge in the current year and a net gain on certain distribution agreement changes in the prior year, the company earned $0.40 per share compared to $0.37 in the prior year period.
For the quarter, bottler case sales (BCS) volume increased 3% reflecting solid growth across the portfolio. Third-party bottler concentrate buy-in toward the end of 2009, a decline in contract manufacturing and unfavorable comparisons related to the successful Crush launch and related pipeline fill in 2009 resulted in a 3% decline in sales volume. Reported net sales were down 1%. Segment operating profit (SOP) was flat reflecting lower packaging and ingredient costs offset by higher marketplace and productivity office investments as well as costs associated with the startup of the Victorville, Calif., facility. Foreign currency added one percentage point of growth to net sales and SOP. Reported income from operations was $187 million compared to $265 million in the prior year period.
DPS President and CEO Larry Young said, "Despite the carryover of weak consumer trends, an abnormally wet and cold January and February and our toughest quarter of the year, our portfolio demonstrated resilience with BCS up 3%. In the quarter, we completed our licensing agreements with PepsiCo, achieved our target capital structure, opened our new West Coast facility and commenced our share repurchase program. While the U.S. economy remains fragile, we are starting to see improvements in underlying consumer trends including the critical immediate consumption and fountain/foodservice channels. This improvement combined with winning innovation, continued white space and cold drink expansion opportunities and ongoing investments in brand health gives me confidence in our full year outlook and the long-term growth prospects for this business. We remain focused on completing key infrastructure investments in 2010 and capitalizing on continuous improvement opportunities."
 
EPS  earnings per share
Net sales and SOP in the tables and commentary below are presented on a currency neutral basis. For a reconciliation of non-GAAP to GAAP measures see page A-5 accompanying this release.
BCS Volume
For the quarter, BCS volume increased 3% with carbonated soft drinks (CSDs) growing 2% and non-carbonated beverages (NCBs) up 6%.
In CSDs, Dr Pepper volume increased 3%. Our "Core 4" brands  7UP, Sunkist soda, A&W and Canada Dry  were down 2%. Canada Dry grew double digits while 7UP and A&W declined low single digits and Sunkist soda declined double digits. Peafiel declined 10% on lower third-party distributor sales. Squirt grew 8% and Crush grew 22% on expanded distribution and strong innovation. Fountain foodservice volume increased 2%.
In NCBs, Snapple grew 17% on strong growth in premium and value teas. Mott's volume grew 14% reflecting expanded distribution and continued strong brand support. Hawaiian Punch grew 7% while third-party brands such as AriZona and Fiji declined double digits.
By geography, volume increased 2% in the U.S. and Canada and 8% in Mexico and the Caribbean.
Across all measured channels through April, as reported by The Nielsen Company, the company grew U.S. CSD dollar share 0.6 percentage points and flavored CSD dollar share 0.9 percentage points.
Sales volume
For the quarter, sales volume decreased 3% reflecting third-party bottler concentrate buy-in toward the end of 2009, a decline in contract manufacturing and unfavorable comparisons related to the successful Crush launch and related pipeline fill in first quarter 2009.
 
Beverage Concentrates
Net sales for the quarter decreased 2% as low single-digit concentrate price increases and revenue recognized from the PepsiCo, Inc. (PepsiCo) licensing agreements were more than offset by sales volume declines of 4%. Segment operating profit decreased 4% driven by the decline in net sales and higher marketplace and productivity office investments.
Packaged Beverages
Net sales for the quarter decreased 2% principally reflecting a decline in contract manufacturing. Volume growth in Snapple, Motts and Hawaiian Punch was offset by mid single-digit declines in CSDs. Segment operating profit increased 6% due to lower packaging and ingredient costs and the benefits from ongoing productivity initiatives, partially offset by the startup of the Victorville facility and other operating costs.
Latin America Beverages
Net sales for the quarter decreased 1%. Strong volume growth was more than offset by the negative impact of product and channel mix and higher marketplace spending. Segment operating profit declined 30% reflecting the lower sales, increased distribution costs related to company-owned route expansion and higher IT infrastructure upgrade investments.
Corporate and other items
For the quarter, corporate costs totaled $77 million compared to $63 million in the prior year period. Transaction and other costs related to the PepsiCo licensing agreements added $8 million and stock-based compensation expenses increased $3 million.
For the quarter, total productivity office investments were $9 million.
Net interest expense decreased $21 million reflecting lower net debt and lower interest rates.
For the quarter, the effective tax rate was 43.3% including a $13 million separation-related foreign deferred tax charge. The tax rate also included a $3 million tax expense related to certain tax items indemnified by Kraft Foods Inc. and/or one of its subsidiaries (Kraft) as well as ongoing tax planning benefits.
Cash flow
For the quarter, the company generated $987 million of cash from operating activities including a $900 million one-time payment from PepsiCo. Net capital spending totaled $55 million. The company repaid $405 million of its debt obligations and returned $240 million to shareholders in the form of stock repurchases ($202 million) and dividends ($38 million).
 
2010 full year guidance
The company continues to expect full year net sales to increase 3% to 5% and reported diluted earnings per share to now be $2.29 to $2.37. The effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 38%, including a $13 million separation-related foreign deferred tax charge recorded in the first quarter. This rate also includes approximately $14 million of items indemnified by Kraft as well as ongoing tax planning benefits. Excluding the separation-related foreign deferred tax charge, full year 2010 diluted earnings per share are now expected to be $2.34 to $2.42.
The company expects net capital spending to be approximately 5% of net sales and is authorized to repurchase $1 billion of its common stock in 2010 subject to market conditions.
Impact of the PepsiCo licensing agreements
On February 26, 2010, the company completed its licensing agreements with PepsiCo. Under these agreements, PepsiCo began distributing Dr Pepper, Crush and Schweppes in the U.S. territories where these brands were previously distributed by The Pepsi Bottling Group, Inc. (PBG) and PepsiAmericas, Inc. (PAS). The same applies to Dr Pepper, Crush, Schweppes, Vernors and Sussex in Canada, and Squirt and Canada Dry in Mexico. These agreements have an initial term of 20 years, with 20-year renewal periods, and require PepsiCo to meet certain performance conditions.
Additionally, in certain U.S. territories where it has a manufacturing and distribution footprint, the company has begun selling certain owned and licensed brands, including Sunkist soda, Squirt, Vernors and Hawaiian Punch that were previously distributed by PBG and PAS.
The one-time cash payment of $900 million, received February 26, 2010, was recorded as deferred revenue and is being recognized as net sales over 25 years. The company recognized $3 million in the first quarter.
Forward-looking statements
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including, in particular, statements about future events, future financial performance, plans, strategies, expectations, prospects, competitive environment, regulation, and cost and availability of raw materials. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "plan," "intend" or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements have been based on our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Our actual financial performance could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to the inherent uncertainty of estimates, forecasts and projections, and our financial performance may be better or worse than anticipated. Given these uncertainties, you should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. All of the forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors discussed under "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date that they were made. We do not undertake any duty to update the forward-looking statements, and the estimates and assumptions associated with them, after the date of this release, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws.
 
Conference Call
At 10 a.m. (CDT) today, the company will host a conference call with investors to discuss first quarter 2010 results and the outlook for 2010. The conference call and slide presentation will be accessible live through DPS' website at and will be archived for replay for a period of 14 days.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
In discussing financial results and guidance, the company may refer to certain non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of any such non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable financial measures in accordance with GAAP can be found on page A-5 accompanying this release and under "Financial Press Releases" on the company's website at in the "Investors" section.
http://www.drpeppersnapple.com
Definitions
Bottler case sales (BCS) volume: Sales of finished beverages, in equivalent 288 fluid ounce cases, sold by the company and its bottling partners to retailers and independent distributors and excludes contract manufacturing volume. Volume for products sold by the company and its bottling partners is reported on a monthly basis, with the first quarter comprising January, February and March.
Sales volume: Sales of concentrates and finished beverages, in equivalent 288 fluid ounce cases, shipped by the company to its bottlers, retailers and independent distributors and includes contract manufacturing volume.
Pricing refers to the impact of list price changes.
About Dr Pepper Snapple
Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (NYSE: DPS) is the leading producer of flavored beverages in North America and the Caribbean. Our success is fueled by more than 50 brands that are synonymous with refreshment, fun and flavor. We have 6 of the top 10 non-cola soft drinks, and 9 of our 12 "power brands" are No. 1 in their flavor categories. In addition to our flagship Dr Pepper and Snapple brands, our portfolio includes Sunkist soda, 7UP, A&W, Canada Dry, Crush, Mott's, Squirt, Hawaiian Punch, Peafiel, Clamato, Schweppes, Venom Energy, Rose's and Mr & Mrs T mixers. To learn more about our iconic brands and Plano, Texas-based company, please visit .
www.drpeppersnapple.com
 
 
 
 
 
The company reports its financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP. However, management believes that certain non-GAAP measures, that reflect the way management evaluates the business, may provide investors with additional information regarding the company's results, trends and ongoing performance on a comparable basis. Specifically, investors should consider the following with respect to our quarterly results:
Currency neutral Net sales and Segment Operating Profit are on a currency neutral basis.
Net Sales and Segment Operating Profi:
Reported diluted EPS adjusted for separation-related foreign deferred tax charge in 2010 and a net gain related to the Hansen contract termination payment as well as the sale of certain distribution rights in 2009.
EPS excluding certain items:


