FILE:DPS/DPS-8K-20100607082042.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
and
Item 8.01 Other Events.
Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (" DPS") today announced that it has agreed to license certain brands to The Coca-Cola Company ("KO") on completion of KOs proposed acquisition of Coca-Cola Enterprises ("CCE") North American Bottling Business. In addition, KO will offer Dr Pepper and Diet Dr Pepper in local fountain accounts currently serviced by CCE and will include Dr Pepper and Diet Dr Pepper on its Freestyle fountain dispenser. Under new licensing agreements, KO will distribute Dr Pepper in the U.S. and Canada Dry in the Northeast U.S. where they are currently distributed by CCE. The new agreements will have an initial term of 20 years, with 20-year renewal periods, and will require KO to meet certain performance conditions. KO will continue to distribute Canada Dry, CPlus and Schweppes in Canada. Additionally, in certain U.S. territories where it has a manufacturing and distribution footprint, DPS will begin selling Squirt, Canada Dry, Schweppes and Cactus Coole r, which are currently sold by CCE. As part of these transactions, DPS will receive a one-time cash payment of $715 million before taxes, fees and other related expenses. This upfront payment is net of the investment in the Freestyle fountain program, which is estimated at $115 million to $135 million. A copy of the letter agreement summarizing the terms of the transactions is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. A copy of the press release announcing the transactions is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits 10.1 Letter agreement, dated June 7, 2010, between Dr Pepper/Seven Up, Inc. and The Coca-Cola Company. 99.1 Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. Press Release dated June 7, 2010"Dr Pepper Snapple Group Signs New Agreements with The Coca-Cola Company"
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Mr. Larry Young President and Chief Executive Officer Dr Pepper/Seven Up, Inc. 5301 Legacy Drive Plano, TX 75024
Dear Mr. Young:
This letter agreement is to confirm the consent of Dr Pepper/Seven Up, Inc. and its subsidiaries ("DPSU") and agreement with The Coca-Cola Company and its affiliates ("TCCC") regarding the change in control of Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc. (and certain of its affiliates) ("CCE") when the previously announced transaction between TCCC and CCE ("Transaction") closes. The following mutually agreed provisions apply:
Please indicate your agreement with the terms of this letter agreement by signing where indicated below.
Sincerely,
The Coca-Cola Company
/s/ Muhtar Kent Muhtar Kent Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Accepted and Agreed:
Dr Pepper/Seven Up, Inc.

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tina Barry, (972) 673-7931 Greg Artkop, (972) 673-8470
Contacts: Media Relations
Aly Noormohamed, (972) 673-6050
Investor Relations
Plano, TX, June 7, 2010  Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (NYSE: DPS) today announced that it has agreed to license certain brands to The Coca-Cola Company (NYSE: KO) on completion of KO's proposed acquisition of Coca-Cola Enterprises' (NYSE: CCE) North American Bottling Business. In addition, KO will offer Dr Pepper and Diet Dr Pepper in local fountain accounts currently serviced by CCE and will include Dr Pepper and Diet Dr Pepper on its Freestyle fountain dispenser.
Under new licensing agreements, KO will distribute Dr Pepper in the U.S. and Canada Dry in the Northeast U.S. where they are currently distributed by CCE. The new agreements will have an initial term of 20 years, with 20-year renewal periods, and will require KO to meet certain performance conditions. KO will continue to distribute Canada Dry, C'Plus and Schweppes in Canada.
Additionally, in certain U.S. territories where it has a manufacturing and distribution footprint, DPS will begin selling Squirt, Canada Dry, Schweppes and Cactus Cooler, which are currently sold by CCE.
"These agreements build a strong foundation for the continued growth of Dr Pepper and our leading flavor brands," said Larry Young, president and CEO of DPS. "It solidifies Coke's support of the Dr Pepper trademark while enabling us to optimize our route-to-market by assuming distribution of several key brands. Additionally, we're increasing our fountain presence, enabling millions of consumers to sample our brands each day  a great win for Dr Pepper."
As part of these transactions, DPS will receive a one-time cash payment of $715 million before taxes, fees and other related expenses. This upfront payment is net of the investment in the Freestyle fountain program, which is estimated at $115 million to $135 million.
These transactions are subject to KO completing its planned acquisition of CCE's North American bottling business.
Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (NYSE: DPS) is the leading producer of flavored beverages in North America and the Caribbean. Our success is fueled by more than 50 brands that are synonymous with refreshment, fun and flavor. We have 6 of the top 10 non-cola soft drinks, and 9 of our 12 "power brands" are No. 1 in their flavor categories. In addition to our flagship Dr Pepper and Snapple brands, our portfolio includes Sunkist soda, 7UP, A&W, Canada Dry, Crush, Mott's, Squirt, Hawaiian Punch, Penafiel, Clamato, Schweppes, Venom Energy, Rose's and Mr & Mrs T mixers. To learn more about our iconic brands and Plano, Texas-based company, please visit www.drpeppersnapple.com.
About Dr Pepper Snapple Group
Forward-looking statements
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including, in particular, statements about future events, future financial performance, plans, strategies, expectations, prospects, competitive environment, regulation, and cost and availability of raw materials. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "plan," "intend" or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements have been based on our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Our actual financial performance could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to the inherent uncertainty of estimates, forecasts and projections, and our financial performance may be better or worse than anticipated. Given these uncertainties, you should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. All of the forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors discussed under "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended December 31, 2009, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date that they were made. We do not undertake any duty to update the forward-looking statements, and the estimates and assumptions associated with them, after the date of this release, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws.


