FILE:DPS/DPS-8K-20110210170359.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d) On February 10, 2011, Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that Joyce M. Roch has joined the Company's Board of Directors effective today. Ms. Roch was designated as a Class III director and will stand for re-election at the annual stockholder's meeting occurring on May 19, 2011. She will serve on the Company's Audit Committee commencing March 1, 2011. Ms. Roch, 63, most recently served as president and CEO of Girls Inc. until her retirement in 2010. Previously, she was president and chief operating officer of Carson Products Company and vice president of global marketing at Avon Products, Inc. Ms. Roch currently sits on the boards of AT&T Inc., Tupperware Corp., Macys Inc., and The Association of Governing Boards of Universities and Colleges. She is also the chair of the Board of Trustees for Dillard University. As a non-management member of the Company's Board of Directors, in remuneration for her services, Ms. Roch will receive an annual retainer of $100,000 and an award for restricted stock units equal to $100,000. There are no arrangements or understandings known to the Company between Ms. Roch and any other person pursuant to which she was elected as a director. There are no transactions in which Ms. Roch has an interest requiring disclosure under Item 404(a)of Regulation S-K of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On February 10, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.25 per share on the common stock of the Company, payable in U.S. dollars on April 8, 2011, to the stockholders of record at the close of business on March 21, 2011. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits 99.1 --Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. Press Release dated February 10, 2011--"Dr Pepper Snapple Group names Joyce Roch to Board of Directors". 99.2 -- Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. Press Release dated February 10, 2011--"Dr Pepper Snapple Group Declares Quarterly Dividend".
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

PLANO, Texas (Feb. 10, 2011)  Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (NYSE:DPS) today announced that Joyce M. Roch has joined the company's board of directors, effective today.
 
Ms. Roch, 63, most recently served as president and CEO of Girls Inc. until her retirement in 2010. Previously, she was president and chief operating officer of Carson Products Company and vice president of global marketing at Avon Products, Inc. 
 
"Joyce's broad range of executive management and marketing experience makes her an asset to any board," said Wayne R. Sanders, chairman of the board of Dr Pepper Snapple. "She has a tremendous track record in the consumer packaged goods industry, and her nearly decade-long leadership in the nonprofit sector brings an important new perspective to the DPS board that will serve our company well."
 
Ms. Roch is a graduate of Dillard University in New Orleans and holds an MBA from Columbia University. She also is an alumnus of Stanford University's Senior Executive Program and holds honorary doctorate degrees from Dillard University and North Adams State College. In addition to the DPS board, she currently sits on the boards of AT&T Inc., Tupperware Corp., Macy's Inc., and The Association of Governing Boards of Universities and Colleges. She is also the chair of the Board of Trustees for Dillard University.
 
Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (NYSE: DPS) is the leading producer of flavored beverages in North America and the Caribbean. Our success is fueled by more than 50 brands that are synonymous with refreshment, fun and flavor. We have 6 of the top 10 non-cola soft drinks, and 9 of our 12 leading brands are No. 1 in their flavor categories. In addition to our flagship Dr Pepper and Snapple brands, our portfolio includes Sunkist soda, 7UP, A&W, Canada Dry, Crush, Mott's, Squirt, Hawaiian Punch, Peafiel, Clamato, Schweppes, Venom Energy, Rose's and Mr & Mrs T mixers. To learn more about our iconic brands and Plano, Texas-based company, please visit .
About Dr Pepper Snapple
www.drpeppersnapple.com
 

Plano, TX, February 10, 2011  Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (NYSE: DPS) today announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share on the company's common stock. The dividend is payable in U.S. dollars on April 8, 2011, to shareholders of record on March 21, 2011.
Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (NYSE: DPS) is the leading producer of flavored beverages in North America and the Caribbean. Our success is fueled by more than 50 brands that are synonymous with refreshment, fun and flavor. We have 6 of the top 10 non-cola soft drinks, and 9 of our 12 "power brands" are No. 1 in their flavor categories. In addition to our flagship Dr Pepper and Snapple brands, our portfolio includes Sunkist soda, 7UP, A&W, Canada Dry, Crush, Mott's, Squirt, Hawaiian Punch, Peafiel, Clamato, Schweppes, Venom Energy, Rose's and Mr & Mrs T mixers. To learn more about our iconic brands and Plano, Texas-based company, please visit .
About Dr Pepper Snapple
www.drpeppersnapple.com


