FILE:DPS/DPS-8K-20111209083445.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
In March 2009, Robert M. Ward, et al., as plaintiffs, commenced litigation in the United States District Court, Central District of California, Western Division (the "Court") alleging age discrimination against Cadbury Schweppes Bottling Group, Inc. (now The American Bottling Company), et al., as defendants. The defendants are subsidiaries of Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (the "Company"). The complaint related to activities which principally occurred before the Company's spin off from Cadbury plc in 2008. On December 7, 2011, the jury returned a verdict in favor of the six plaintiffs and awarded damages of approximately $18.3 million. The Company plans to appeal this decision, but has now established a reserve equal to the awarded damages. As the Company's 2011 full year diluted earnings per share guidance ("EPS Guidance") did not anticipate this event, the Company's reported 2011 full year diluted earnings per share could be less than EPS Guidance.
Forward-looking statements This disclosure contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including, in particular, statements about future events, plans, strategies, expectations and prospects. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as the words may, "could," will, expect, anticipate, believe, estimate, plan, intend or the negative of these terms or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements have been based on our current views with respect to future events and financial performance. Our actual financial performance could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements due to the inherent uncertainty of estimates, forecasts and projections, and our financial performance may be better or worse than anticipated. Given these uncertainties, you should not put undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. All of the forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to the factors discussed under Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the above-referenced offering memorandum. Forward-looking statements represent our estimates and assumptions only as of the date that they were made. We do not undertake any duty to update the forward-looking statements, and the estimates and assumptions associated with them, after the date of this release, except to the extent required by applicable securities laws. Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K is deemed to be furnished and shall not be deemed to be filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


