FILE:L/L-8K-20050503111640.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
1
 
 On May 3, 2005, Registrant issued a press release for Loews Corporation and a separate press release for the Carolina Group providing information on their results of operations for the first quarter of 2005. The press releases are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Form 8-K.
   
The Registrant will restate its financial results for prior years to correct its accounting for several reinsurance contracts entered into by a subsidiary of CNA Financial Corporation, a 91%-owned subsidiary of the Registrant (CNA), primarily with a former affiliate of CNA, and CNAs equity accounting for that affiliate. The impact of this revised accounting results in a reduction to shareholders equity as of December 31, 2004 of $27.3 million, or 0.2%, and an increase in net income attributable to Loews common stock of $1.3 million, or $0.01 per Loews common share, for the three months ended March 31, 2004. The principal effects of this restatement for years 2002 - 2004 are as follows:
The Registrant will file a Form 10-K/A for 2004 reflecting these adjustments and their impact on disclosures as applicable for years 2002 - 2004. Accordingly, the Registrants original financial statements and related independent registered public accountants reports thereon for those periods should no longer be relied upon. The Registrants periodic report on Form 10-Q for first quarter 2005 will also reflect the adjustments.
This restatement is based upon reconsideration of CNAs accounting for its former equity interest in Accord Re Ltd. (Accord), and for several reinsurance contracts with Accord, but also includes two reinsurance agreements with unaffiliated parties that are immaterial in the aggregate. A subsidiary of The Continental Corporation (TCC) acquired a 49% ownership interest in Accord, a Bermuda company, in 1989 upon Accords formation. TCC also provided capital support to Accord through a guarantee from a TCC subsidiary. TCC was acquired by CNA in 1995.
Reinsurance relationships with Accord involved both property and casualty assumed reinsurance risks that were written by TCC subsidiaries and 100% ceded to Accord or reinsured from other cedents by Accord. Stop-loss protection in relation to those risks was obtained by Accord from a wholly owned TCC subsidiary.
All of CNAs reinsurance agreements with Accord relating to property risks were commuted as of year-end 2001, leaving six reinsurance agreements with Accord relating to casualty risks outstanding at that time. As of March 31, 2005 CNA provides no capital support to and has no ownership interest in Accord. During the period of CNAs minority ownership, Accord also maintained reinsurance relationships with reinsurers unaffiliated with CNA.
As previously reported, CNA continues to respond to various subpoenas, interrogatories and other requests for information received from state and federal regulatory authorities relating to on-going insurance industry investigations of non-traditional insurance products, including finite reinsurance. As also previously reported, CNA agreed to undergo a state regulatory financial examination of the Continental Casualty Company and its insurance subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003. Such review includes examination of certain of the finite reinsurance contracts entered into by CNA and whether such contracts possess sufficient risk transfer characteristics necessary to qualify for accounting treatment as reinsurance. In the course of complying with these requests CNA conducted a comprehensive review of its finite reinsurance relationships, including contracts with Accord. As a result of that review management of the Registrant determined to recommend to the Audit Committee of the Registrants Board of Directors that the adjustments recited above be made to correct the accounting treatment of CNAs reinsurance agreements with and equity
2
interest in Accord. After conferring with management and discussing the matter with Deloitte & Touche LLP, the Registrants independent registered public accountants, the Audit Committee adopted that recommendation on April 28, 2005. It is possible that CNAs analyses of, or accounting treatment for, other finite reinsurance contracts could be questioned or disputed in the context of the referenced state regulatory examination, and further restatements of the Registrants financial results are possible as a consequence, which could have a material adverse impact on the Registrants financial condition.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3

Exhibit 99.2
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
NEW YORK, May 3, 2005Loews Corporation (NYSE:LTR) today reported Carolina Group net income for the 2005 first quarter of $118.5 million, compared to $103.0 million in the 2004 first quarter. Net income attributable to Carolina Group stock (NYSE:CG) for the first quarter of 2005 was $46.5 million, or $0.68 per share of Carolina Group stock, compared to $34.4 million, or $0.59 per share in the prior year.
The increase in net income attributable to Carolina Group stock for the first quarter of 2005, as compared to the corresponding period of the prior year, reflects the sale by Loews Corporation of 10,000,000 shares of Carolina Group stock in December of 2004 and the higher overall results of the Carolina Group. Net income per share of Carolina Group stock was not impacted by the sale of Carolina Group stock in December of 2004. Carolina Group stock represents a 39.20% and 33.43% economic interest in the Carolina Group for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
Net sales for the Carolina Group were $795.1 million in the first quarter of 2005, compared to $767.9 million in the 2004 first quarter. The increase in net sales reflects an increase in unit sales volume of 0.3% and a reduction in sales promotion expenses.
Results of operations of the Carolina Group include interest expense of $22.4 and $24.6 million, net of taxes, for the three months ended March 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, on notional intergroup debt. At March 31, 2005, $1.797 billion principal amount of notional intergroup debt was outstanding.
The Carolina Group stock, commonly called a tracking stock, is intended to reflect the economic performance of a defined group of the Companys assets and liabilities, referred to as the Carolina Group, principally consisting of the Companys subsidiary Lorillard, Inc. The Carolina Group, a notional group, is not a separate legal entity. The purpose of this financial
Page 1 of 4
information is to provide investors with additional information to use in analyzing the results of operations and financial condition of the Carolina Group, and this financial information should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial information of Loews Corporation.
As of March 31, 2005, there were 68,027,309 shares of Carolina Group stock outstanding representing a 39.22% economic interest. Depending on market and other conditions, the Company, for the account of the Carolina Group, from time to time may purchase shares of Carolina Group stock in the open market or otherwise.
Loews Corporation has issued a separate press release reporting its consolidated results for the first quarter of 2005, which accompanies this press release.
A conference call to discuss the first quarter results of Loews Corporation has been scheduled for 11:00 a.m. EDT, Tuesday, May 3, 2005. A live broadcast of the call will be available online at the Loews Corporation website (www.loews.com). Please go to the website at least ten minutes before the event begins to register and to download and install any necessary audio software. Those interested in participating in the question and answer session of the conference call should dial (877) 692-2592. An online replay will be available at the Companys website following the call.
Page 2 of 4
Carolina Group
Financial Review
Page 3 of 4
Carolina Group
Supplemental Information
The following information regarding unit volume shipped by Lorillard Tobacco Company to its direct buying customers by brand follows (all units in thousands):
Page 4 of 4

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
NEW YORK, May 3, 2005Loews Corporation (NYSE:LTR;CG) today reported consolidated net income (including both the Loews Group and Carolina Group) for the 2005 first quarter of $339.7 million, compared to $44.9 million in the 2004 first quarter. Income before net investment losses attributable to Loews common stock amounted to $308.0 million in the first quarter of 2005 compared to $310.8 million in the comparable 2004 quarter. Net income attributable to Loews common stock includes net investment losses of $14.8 million (after tax and minority interest), compared to losses of $300.3 million in the comparable 2004 quarter, which included an impairment loss of $368.3 million (after tax and minority interest) for CNAs sale of its individual life insurance business.
The Company will restate its financial results for prior years to correct CNAs accounting for several reinsurance contracts, primarily with a former affiliate, and CNAs equity accounting for that affiliate. The Company will file a Form 10-K/A for 2004 reflecting the effects of the restatement, which will reduce shareholders equity as of December 31, 2004 by $27.3 million, or 0.2%.
Net income and earnings per share information attributable to Loews common stock and Carolina Group stock is summarized in the table below.
(a)
 
Includes an impairment loss of $368.3 (after tax and minority interest) in 2004 related to CNA's sale of its individual life insurance business.
Page 1 of 6
Net income attributable to Loews common stock for the first quarter of 2005 amounted to $293.2 million or $1.58 per share, compared to $10.5 million or $0.06 per share in the comparable period of the prior year.
Net income attributable to Carolina Group stock for the first quarter of 2005 was $46.5 million or $0.68 per Carolina Group share, compared to $34.4 million, or $0.59 per Carolina Group share in the first quarter of 2004. The Company is issuing a separate press release reporting the results of the Carolina Group for the quarter ended March 31, 2005.
Consolidated revenues in the first quarter of 2005 amounted to $3.7 billion, compared to $3.5 billion in the comparable 2004 quarter.
Financial Restatement
The Company will restate its financial results for prior years to correct CNAs accounting for several reinsurance contracts, primarily with a former affiliate, and CNAs equity accounting for that affiliate. The impact of this revised accounting results in a reduction to shareholders equity as of December 31, 2004 of $27.3 million, or 0.2%, and an increase in net income attributable to Loews common stock of $1.3 million, or $0.01 per Loews common share, for the three months ended March 31, 2004.
The Company will file a Form 10-K/A for 2004 reflecting the effects of the restatement as follows:
This restatement is based upon reconsideration of CNAs accounting for its former equity interest in Accord Re Ltd. (Accord), and for several reinsurance contracts with Accord, but also includes two reinsurance agreements with unaffiliated parties that are immaterial in the aggregate. A subsidiary of The Continental Corporation (TCC) acquired a 49% ownership interest in Accord, a Bermuda company, in 1989 upon Accords formation. TCC also provided capital support to Accord through a guarantee from a TCC subsidiary. TCC was acquired by CNA in 1995.
Reinsurance relationships with Accord involved both property and casualty assumed reinsurance risks that were written by TCC subsidiaries and 100% ceded to Accord or reinsured from other cedents by Accord. Stop-loss protection in relation to those risks was obtained by Accord from a wholly owned TCC subsidiary.
Page 2 of 6
All of CNAs reinsurance agreements with Accord relating to property risks were commuted as of year-end 2001, leaving six reinsurance agreements with Accord relating to casualty risks outstanding at that time. As of March 31, 2005 CNA provides no capital support to and has no ownership interest in Accord. During the period of CNAs minority ownership, Accord also maintained reinsurance relationships with reinsurers unaffiliated with CNA.
As previously reported CNA continues to respond to various subpoenas, interrogatories and other requests for information received from state and federal regulatory authorities relating to on-going insurance industry investigations of non-traditional insurance products, including finite reinsurance. As also previously reported, CNA agreed to undergo a state regulatory financial examination of the Continental Casualty Company and its insurance subsidiaries as of December 31, 2003. Such review includes examination of certain of the finite reinsurance contracts entered into by CNA and whether such contracts possess sufficient risk transfer characteristics necessary to qualify for accounting treatment as reinsurance. In the course of complying with these requests CNA conducted a comprehensive review of its finite reinsurance relationships, including contracts with Accord. It is possible that CNAs analyses of or accounting treatment for other finite reinsurance contracts could be questioned or disputed in the context of the referenced state regulatory examination, and further restatements of the Companys financial results are possible as a consequence, which could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial condition.
At March 31, 2005, the book value per share of Loews common stock was $66.44, compared to $66.56 at December 31, 2004. The decline in book value per share reflects reduced unrealized gains in CNAs fixed maturities portfolio and dividends paid to shareholders offsetting net income for the first quarter of 2005.
At March 31, 2005, there were 185,637,349 shares of Loews common stock outstanding and 68,027,309 shares of Carolina Group stock outstanding. Depending on market and other conditions, the Company from time to time purchases shares of its, and its subsidiaries, outstanding common stock in the open market or otherwise.
The Company has two classes of common stock, Carolina Group stock, a tracking stock intended to reflect the economic performance of a group of the Companys assets and liabilities, called the Carolina Group, principally consisting of the Companys subsidiary Lorillard, Inc. and Loews common stock, representing the economic performance of the Companys remaining assets, including the interest in the Carolina Group not represented by Carolina Group stock. At March 31, 2005, the outstanding Carolina Group stock represents a 39.22% economic interest in the economic performance of the Carolina Group.
A conference call to discuss the first quarter results of Loews Corporation has been scheduled for 11:00 a.m. EDT, Tuesday, May 3, 2005. A live broadcast of the call will be available online at the Loews Corporation website (www.loews.com). Please go to the website at least ten minutes before the event begins to register and to download and install any necessary audio software. Those interested in participating in the question and answer session of the conference call should dial (877) 692-2592. An online replay will be available at the Companys website following the call.
A conference call to discuss the first quarter results of CNA has been scheduled for 10:00 a.m. EDT, Tuesday, May 3, 2005. A live broadcast of the call will be available online at the CNA website (http://investors.cna.com). Please go to the website at least ten minutes before the event begins to register and to download and install any necessary audio software. Those interested in participating in the question
Page 3 of 6
and answer session of the conference call should dial (800) 478-6251. An online replay will be available at CNAs website following the call.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Statements contained in this press release which are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and subject to a variety of risks that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected by management of the Company and CNA. A discussion of the important risk factors and other considerations that could materially impact these matters as well as the Companys overall business and financial performance can be found in the Companys reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and readers of this release are urged to review those reports carefully when considering these forward-looking statements. Copies of these reports are available through the Companys website (www.loews.com). Given these risk factors, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Companys expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
Page 4 of 6
Loews Corporation and Subsidiaries
Financial Review
Page 5 of 6
Loews Corporation and Subsidiaries
Additional Financial Information
Page 6 of 6


