FILE:L/L-8K-20050620170127.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
1
 
On June 14, 2005, Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (Diamond), a 54% owned subsidiary of the Registrant, issued and sold, in a private placement (the Private Placement) exempt from the registration requirements under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of its 4.875% Senior Notes Due July 1, 2015 (the Notes). The Notes were sold in the United States only to accredited investors pursuant to an exemption from the Securities Act, and subsequently resold to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act or to non-U.S. persons in accordance with Regulation S under the Securities Act. The Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. The Private Placement resulted in net proceeds to Diamond of approximately $247.7 million, which Diamond intends to use for general corporate purposes.
The Notes are governed by an Indenture, dated as of February 4, 1997, between Diamond and JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association (formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank), as Trustee (the Trustee), as amended and supplemented by the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 14, 2005 (the Fifth Supplemental Indenture), between Diamond and the Trustee (as so amended and supplemented by the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, the Indenture). In connection with the Private Placement, Diamond entered into the Fifth Supplemental Indenture and an Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement, dated June 14, 2005 (the Registration Rights Agreement), with the initial purchaser of the Notes (the Initial Purchaser).
The Notes bear interest at 4.875% per year, payable semiannually in arrears on January 1 and July 1 of each year, beginning January 1, 2006, and mature on July 1, 2015. The Notes are unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of Diamond and they rank equal in right of payment to Diamond's existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness, although the Notes will be effectively subordinated to all existing and future obligations of Diamonds subsidiaries. Diamond has the right to redeem all or a portion of the Notes for cash at any time or from time to time on at least 15 days but not more that 60 days prior written notice, at the redemption price specified in the Indenture plus accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount of the Notes redeemed to the date of redemption. The Indenture contains covenants that limit, among other things, subject to certain exceptions, Diamonds ability to:
Each of the following is an event of default as defined in the Indenture:
Diamond has agreed, pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, to file a registration statement relating to an offer to exchange the Notes for debt securities issued by Diamond that are substantially identical in all material respects to the Notes. Diamond agreed to file such registration statement within 150 days from June 14, 2005 and to use its reasonable efforts to cause such registration statement to be declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission within 210 days from June 14, 2005. Diamond may be required to provide a shelf registration statement to cover resales of the Notes under certain circumstances. If Diamond fails to file a registration statement, or a registration statement fails to become effective, by the
 
 
2
 
 
respective deadline set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement, or if the required exchange offer is not completed within 45 days after the initial effectiveness of the registration statement for the exchange offer or if, after a registration statement has become effective, it ceases under certain circumstances to be effective or available, then the Registration Rights Agreement provides that Diamond will be obligated to pay additional interest in the amount of 0.25% per year for the first 90 days and 0.50% per year thereafter as liquidated damages until no such failure remains in effect.
 
In June of 2005, CNA received a subpoena from the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York relating to finite risk reinsurance and related products. CNA is informed that other companies in the insurance industry have received similar subpoenas. As previously reported, CNA has received subpoenas, interrogatories and inquiries from a number of state and federal regulatory authorities, among them the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), concerning finite risk and related products. The SEC has subsequently requested CNA to produce documents relating to its previously disclosed restatement of prior year financial results, including its relationship with and accounting for Accord Re Ltd. CNA intends to cooperate fully in these investigations.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3
 


