FILE:L/L-8K-20061115100504.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
1
On November 10, 2006, the registrant's subsidiary, Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP, issued a press release announcing that it has committed to build a new interstate pipeline and to expand its existing pipeline system. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. The information under Item 7.01 and in Exhibit 99.1 in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for the purpose of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information under Item 7.01 and Exhibit 99.1 in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless otherwise indicated in such registration statement or other document.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
2

Exhibit 99.1
OWENSBORO, KY, November 10, 2006  Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP (NYSE: BWP) announced today that it has committed to build a new interstate gas pipeline that will begin near Sherman, Texas and proceed to the Perryville, Louisiana area. The new project, called the Gulf Crossing Pipeline, will consist of 355 miles of 42 inch pipeline having a design capacity of approximately 1.5 Bcf per day. The Gulf Crossing Pipeline is supported by binding agreements with affiliates of Devon Energy Corporation (NYSE:DVN) and Enterprise Products Partners LP (Enterprise) (NYSE:EPD) for transportation of 850 MMcf per day with options for an additional 350 MMcf per day of capacity. The terms of the agreements have a weighted average life of approximately ten years. A binding open season will be conducted to solicit incremental commitments for the remaining capacity. The cost of this project is expected to be approximately $1.1 billion and it is anticipated to be in service during the fourth quarter of 2008, subject to regulatory approval. Enterprise has also agreed, under certain circumstances, to purchase up to 49% of the equity ownership of Gulf Crossing Pipeline.
Boardwalks subsidiary, Gulf South Pipeline, confirms it is proceeding with its previously announced Southeast Expansion Project which will expand its system from near Harrisville, Mississippi to an interconnect with Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line Corporation (Transco) in Choctaw County, Alabama. As part of the Gulf Crossing Expansion Project, Gulf South will lease capacity to Gulf Crossing from the Perryville, Louisiana area to the new Transco interconnect. The Southeast Expansion will consist of 116 miles of 42 inch pipeline having an initial design capacity of approximately 1.2 Bcf per day. The cost of the initial expansion is expected to be approximately $330 million and it is anticipated to be in service during the first quarter of 2008, subject to regulatory approval. Based upon the outcome of the open season and whether the capacity options are exercised by the foundation shippers on the Gulf Crossing Pipeline, Gulf South is prepared to add additional facilities to meet market demand which are estimated to cost up to $300 million.
Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP is a master limited partnership engaged through its subsidiaries, Texas Gas Transmission, LLC and Gulf South Pipeline Company, LP, in the interstate transportation and storage of natural gas. Boardwalk's two interstate natural gas pipeline systems have approximately 13,470 miles of pipeline and underground storage fields with aggregate working gas capacity of approximately 146 Bcf.
Contact:
Tonya Mann-Howard
Investor Relations
(270) 686-3620


