FILE:L/L-8K-20060111163250.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
1
On January 10, 2006, Ann E. Berman was elected a director of the registrant. Ms. Berman is currently serving as Vice President for Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Harvard University and is a member of the Board of the Harvard Management Company, which is responsible for the active management of the Universitys endowment. Ms. Berman recently announced her retirement from Harvard University and from the Board of the Harvard Management Company effective April 1, 2006.
The registrant has also elected Andew H. Tisch and Jonathan M. Tisch as Co-Chairmen of the Board to succeed Preston R. Tisch, who passed away last November. Andrew H. Tisch and Jonathan M. Tisch have each served as a Director of the Company since 1985 and 1986, respectively, and together with James S. Tisch, the Companys Chief Executive Officer, comprise the Companys Office of the President. Andrew H. Tisch also serves as Chairman of the Executive Committee and Jonathan M. Tisch serves as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Companys Loews Hotels subsidiary.
The registrants press release announcing the foregoing elections is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
2

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
NEW YORK, January 10, 2006 --
Loews Corporation (NYSE:LTR)
reported today that Ann E. Berman has been elected a Director of Loews. Ms. Berman is currently serving as Vice President for Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Harvard University, a post she has held since 2002. She also is a member of the Board of the Harvard Management Company, which is responsible for the active management of the University's endowment. Ms. Berman recently announced her retirement from Harvard University and from the Board of the Harvard Management Company effective April 1, 2006.
The Company also reported today that its Board of Directors has elected Andrew H. Tisch and Jonathan M. Tisch as Co-Chairmen of the Board to succeed Preston R. Tisch, who passed away last November. Andrew H. Tisch and Jonathan M. Tisch have each served as a Director of the Company since 1985 and 1986, respectively, and together with James S. Tisch, the Company's Chief Executive Officer, comprise the Company's Office of the President. Andrew H. Tisch also serves as Chairman of the Executive Committee and Jonathan M. Tisch serves as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company's Loews Hotels subsidiary.


