FILE:L/L-8K-20060404145523.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review
TEXT:
ITEM: Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
1
 
Explanatory Note: The Registrant filed a Current Report on Form 8-K, dated February 16, 2006, to furnish information under Item 2.02 with respect to its results of operations for the fourth quarter and year-ended 2005 and to file information under Item 4.02(a) with respect to the restatement of its annual financial statements for the years 2001 through 2004, as well as its interim financial statements through September 30, 2005. This amendment is filed solely to expand upon the information previously reported under Item 4.02(a).
The Registrant will restate its annual financial statements for the years 2001 through 2004, as well as its interim financial statements through September 30, 2005.
The restatement is to correct the accounting for discontinued operations acquired by the Registrants 91%-owned subsidiary, CNA Financial Corporation (CNA) in CNAs merger with The Continental Corporation in 1995. A current review by CNA of its discontinued operations identified an overstatement of the net assets of these discontinued operations and errors in accounting for the periodic results of these operations.
CNA did not have an effectively designed control process in place to ensure adequate oversight, analysis, reconciliation, documentation and periodic evaluation of the results and balances that comprise the net assets of businesses reported as discontinued operations. There was also a lack of understanding of subsidiary ledger detail which contributed to CNAs failure to eliminate intercompany activity within discontinued operations and between continuing and discontinued operations. As a result, the balances related to discontinued operations were incorrectly established in CNAs current general ledger system in 1997 in connection with a general ledger conversion, creating an overstatement of the reported net assets of discontinued operations. In addition, CNAs evaluation of the periodic results of discontinued operations was ineffective. The correction of the elimination issue noted above caused the historical results of discontinued operations to change, requiring current evaluation of the revised periodic results for reporting purposes. Further, in light of the impact of the elimination corrections, CNA reviewed its historical process to evaluate the results of discontinued operations and determined that process did not address recorded loss reserves at all consolidating levels for discontinued operations. Therefore, CNA determined that it was appropriate to recognize the impact of the revised historical periodic income or loss of discontinued operations.
This restatement will decrease Registrants shareholders equity by $186 million, or 1.5%, and decrease net income by $19.5 million, or $0.10 per share of Loews common stock, as of and for the year ended December 31, 2004 and will increase net income by $1.4 million, or $0.01 per share of Loews common stock, for the year ended December 31, 2003.
As a result of this restatement, the Registrants consolidated financial statements for 2001 through 2004, and the related independent registered public accounting firms reports thereon, as well as the Registrants interim financial statements through September 30, 2005, should no longer be relied upon. The Registrants consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005, filed on Form 10-K on March 10, 2006, included the effects of this restatement.
The determination to restate was made by the Audit Committee of the Registrants Board of Directors on February 14, 2006 upon Registrant managements recommendation and in consultation with Deloitte & Touche LLP, the Registrants independent registered public accounting firm.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
2
 

Dear Ms. Robertson:
We refer to your letter dated February 17, 2006 and related discussions between the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") and representatives of our 91%-owned subsidiary, CNA Financial Corporation. The Company is filing today, via EDGAR, a Form 8-K/A to amend the Form 8-K filed on February 16, 2006.
As requested in your letter, the Company acknowledges that:
Although we are amending our disclosures in the Form 8-K/A filing, our amendment should not be considered an indication that we believe any disclosures in the captioned Form 8-K as filed on February 16, 2006 were inadequate in any material respect.


