FILE:L/L-8K-20080814165909.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
1
 
On August 12, 2008, Ken Miller was elected a director of the registrant. Mr. Miller is the Chief Executive Officer and President of Ken Miller Capital, LLC, a closely held merchant banking firm which invests in businesses at all stages of development, as well as advises third parties on transactions.  Mr. Miller has previously served as Senior Advisor at Lehman Brothers and as Vice Chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston.
The registrants press release announcing the foregoing election is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
2
 

Exhibit 99.1
-- Loews Corporation (NYSE:L) reported today that Ken Miller has been elected a director of Loews. Mr. Miller is the Chief Executive Officer and President of Ken Miller Capital, LLC, a closely held merchant banking firm which invests in businesses at all stages of development, as well as advises third parties on transactions. Mr. Miller has previously served as Senior Advisor at Lehman Brothers and as Vice Chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston.
NEW YORK, August 12, 2008
With the addition of Mr. Miller to its Board, Loewss Board consists of eleven directors, eight of whom qualify as independent directors under applicable rules.
Loews Corporation, a holding company, is one of the largest diversified corporations in the United States. Its principal subsidiaries are CNA Financial Corporation (NYSE: CNA), a 90% owned subsidiary; Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (NYSE: DO), a 50.4% owned subsidiary; HighMount Exploration & Production LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary; Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP (NYSE: BWP), a 70% owned subsidiary; and Loews Hotels, a wholly owned subsidiary.
 
 


