FILE:L/L-8K-20080512165414.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
1
 
On May 7, 2008, Loews Corporation (Loews) entered into a Separation Agreement (the Separation Agreement) with Lorillard, Inc. (Lorillard), its wholly-owed subsidiary, and each of Lorillards subsidiaries.  The Separation Agreement will become effective on the date on which Loews redeems its outstanding shares of Carolina Group stock for shares of Lorillard common stock (the Redemption Date), as described in Lorillards Registration Statement No. 333-149051on Form S-4 (as amended, the Registration Statement).
In the Separation Agreement, Lorillard and each of its subsidiaries agreed to indemnify Loews and its officers, directors and employees against all losses based on, arising out of or resulting from the ownership or the operation of Lorillards or any of its subsidiaries assets and properties, and the operation or conduct of Lorillards or any of its subsidiaries businesses (including with respect to any smoking and health claims and litigation), among other matters. The indemnification obligations of Lorillard and each of its subsidiaries are binding on their successors.
Lorillard and each of its subsidiaries also agreed in the Separation Agreement to release Loews and its stockholders, officers, directors and employees from any liability owed by any of them to Lorillard and its subsidiaries with respect to acts or events occurring on or prior to the Redemption Date, except with respect to tax matters described in the Separation Agreement.
The Separation Agreement provides that Loews will indemnify Lorillard and its officers, directors and employees against certain losses. In addition, Loews agreed to release Lorillard, its subsidiaries and all of their directors, officers and employees from any liability owed by any of them to Loews with respect to acts or events occurring on or prior to the Redemption Date, except with respect to tax matters described in the Separation Agreement. The form of Separation Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this report, and is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
On May 9, 2008, Lorillard filed an Information Statement/Prospectus related to the redemption of all outstanding shares of Carolina Group stock by Loews in exchange for shares of Lorillard common stock, and an Offer to Exchange/Prospectus related to the offer by Loews to exchange additional shares of Lorillard common stock held by Loews for outstanding shares of Loews common stock, each under the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act of 1933.  The Information Statement/Prospectus and the Offer to Exchange/Prospectus are filed as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this Current Report, and are incorporated by reference into this Item 8.01.
This report is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell securities. Investors and stockholders of Loews are strongly advised to read the Offer to Exchange and the related letter of transmittal and instruction booklet included in the Registration Statement. The Offer to Exchange and the related letter of transmittal are available to all stockholders of Loews at no expense. These documents are also available at no charge at the Securities and Exchange Commissions website at .
www.sec.gov
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3
 


