FILE:L/L-8K-20080317171045.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
1
 
 
    On March 17, 2008, the registrant issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors and the Board of Directors of the general partner of Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP, a 70% owned subsidiary of the registrant (BWP), had approved, subject to certain conditions, the registrants purchase, through a subsidiary, of newly created Class B limited partner units of Boardwalk Pipeline for $686 million and related contribution of an additional $14 million on behalf of BWPs general partner to maintain its 2% general partner interest.   The proposed purchase is subject to the approval of BWPs Conflicts Committee and the completion of definitive documentation and is expected to close by June 30, 2008.
    A copy of the registrants press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
   The information under Item 7.01 and in Exhibit 99.1 in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for the purpose of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information under Item 7.01 and in Exhibit 99.1 in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
2
 
 
3
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
NEW YORK, March 17, 2008  Loews Corporation (NYSE:LTR) announced today that its Board of Directors has authorized a proposed investment of $700 million in Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP. The investment in its 70% owned subsidiary would be made primarily through the purchase of newly created Class B limited partnership units of Boardwalk Pipeline.  The proposed purchase is subject to the approval of Boardwalk Pipelines Conflicts Committee and the completion of definitive documentation and is expected to close by June 30, 2008.
Although the final terms of the transaction are subject to further negotiation and to review and the approval by the Conflicts Committee, it is anticipated that the investment will have the following terms:
Boardwalk Pipeline has advised the Company that it intends to use the proceeds of approximately $700 million to fund a portion of the costs of its ongoing pipeline expansion projects.
Loews Corporation, a holding company, is one of the largest diversified corporations in the United States.  Its principal subsidiaries are CNA Financial Corporation (NYSE: CNA); Lorillard, Inc.; Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP (NYSE: BWP); Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (NYSE: DO); HighMount Exploration & Production LLC; and Loews Hotels.
 
 
 
 
 
Statements in this press release that contain forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements using the words believes, expects, plans, intends, anticipates, proposes and similar expressions. Such statements are inherently subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, including that the investment in Class B Units may not be completed or may be completed on terms that differ from those described in this press release. A discussion of the risk factors that could impact these areas and the Company's overall business and financial performance can be found in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Given these concerns, investors and analysts should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statement to reflect any change in the Company's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based.
 
 
 
 


