FILE:L/L-8K-20091109162356.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
1
 
The Registrants subsidiary, CNA Financial Corporation (CNA), issued a press release today announcing that it had priced an offering of $350 million principal amount of its 7.35%, ten year senior notes. The offering is expected to close on November 13, 2009. CNA has stated that it intends to use the net proceeds to redeem $250 million, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon, of its 2008 Senior Preferred Stock held by the Registrant, with the remainder of the net proceeds available for general corporate purposes. The redemption of the 2008 Senior Preferred Stock is subject to CNAs successful completion of the offering, as well as other customary conditions.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
The information under Item 7.01 and in Exhibit 99.1 in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for the purpose of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information under Item 7.01 and in Exhibit 99.1 in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
2
 

Exhibit 99.1
CNA Financial Corporation (NYSE: CNA) today announced that it has priced $350 million aggregate principal amount of 7.35% ten-year senior notes in a public offering underwritten by Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC.   The notes were offered at 99.887% of the principal amount with a yield to maturity of 7.366%.  CNA expects the offering to close on November 13, 2009.
CHICAGO, November 9, 2009 --
CNA intends to use the net proceeds from the offering to redeem $250 million, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon, of CNAs outstanding 2008 Senior Preferred Stock held by Loews Corporation, the owner of 90% of CNAs common stock, with the remainder available for general corporate purposes. The redemption of the 2008 Senior Preferred Stock is subject to CNAs successful completion of this offering, as well as other customary conditions.
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to purchase any securities.  An electronic copy of the final prospectus supplement and accompanying base prospectus will be available from the Securities and Exchange Commissions website at . In addition, a copy of the final prospectus supplement and accompanying base prospectus relating to this offering may also be obtained, when available, from:
www.sec.gov
Serving businesses and professionals since 1897, CNA is the countrys seventh largest commercial insurer and the 13 largest property and casualty company.  CNAs insurance products include standard commercial lines, specialty lines, surety, marine and other property and casualty coverages.  CNA's services include risk management, information services, underwriting, risk control and claims administration.  For more information, please visit CNA at .  CNA is a registered trademark of CNA Financial Corporation.
th
www.cna.com
 
 
Page 1 of  2
 
This press release includes statements which relate to anticipated future events (forward-looking statements) rather than actual present conditions or historical events.  These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and generally include words such as believes, expects, intends, anticipates, estimates, and similar expressions.  Forward-looking statements, by their nature, are subject to a variety of inherent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results projected.  Many of these risks and uncertainties cannot be controlled by CNA. For a detailed description of these risks and uncertainties please refer to CNAs filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, available at .
www.cna.com
Any forward-looking statements made in this press release are made by CNA as of the date of this press release.  Further, CNA does not have any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained in this press release, even if CNAs expectations or any related events, conditions or circumstances change.


