FILE:L/L-8K-20100806093047.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
1
 
 
The Registrants 90% owned subsidiary, CNA Financial Corporation (CNA), issued a press release today announcing that it had priced an offering of $500 million principal amount of its 5.875%, ten year senior notes. The offering is expected to close on August 10, 2010, subject to customary closing conditions.
CNA has stated that it intends to use the net proceeds from the offering of approximately $494 million, plus cash on hand, to redeem $500 million, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon, of its 2008 Senior Preferred Stock held by the Registrant. The redemption of the 2008 Senior Preferred Stock is subject to CNAs successful completion of the offering, as well as other customary conditions.
A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The information under Item 7.01 and in Exhibit 99.1 in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for the purpose of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information under Item 7.01 and in Exhibit 99.1 in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
2
 

Exhibit 99.1
CONTACT:
CNA Financial Corporation (NYSE: CNA) today announced that it has priced $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.875% ten-year senior notes in a public offering underwritten by Banc of America Securities LLC, Barclays Capital Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated.  The notes were offered to the public at 99.685% of the principal amount with a yield to maturity of 5.917%.  CNA expects the offering to close on August 10, 2010, subject to customary closing conditions.
CHICAGO, August 5, 2010 --
CNA intends to use all of the net proceeds from the offering, which are estimated to be approximately $494 million, after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and estimated offering expenses, together with cash on hand, to redeem $500 million, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon, of CNAs outstanding 2008 Senior Preferred Stock held by Loews Corporation, the owner of approximately 90% of CNAs common stock. The redemption of the 2008 Senior Preferred Stock is subject to CNAs successful completion of this offering, as well as other customary closing conditions.
The offering is being made solely by means of a prospectus supplement and the accompanying base prospectus.  This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to purchase any securities.  An electronic copy of the final prospectus supplement and accompanying base prospectus will be available at the Securities and Exchange Commissions website at . In addition, a copy of the final prospectus supplement and accompanying base prospectus relating to this offering may also be obtained, when available, from:
www.sec.gov
 
Page 1 of  2
 
Serving businesses and professionals since 1897, CNA is the countrys seventh largest commercial insurer and the 13 largest property and casualty company.  CNAs insurance products include standard commercial lines, specialty lines, surety, marine and other property and casualty coverages.  CNA's services include risk management, information services, underwriting, risk control and claims administration.  For more information, please visit CNA at .  CNA is a registered trademark of CNA Financial Corporation.
th
www.cna.com
This press release includes statements which relate to anticipated future events (forward-looking statements) rather than actual present conditions or historical events.  These statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and generally include words such as believes, expects, intends, anticipates, estimates, and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements, by their nature, are subject to a variety of inherent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results projected.  Many of these risks and uncertainties cannot be controlled by CNA and include CNAs successful completion of the offering and the satisfaction of other customary condit ions to the closing of the redemption transaction. For a detailed description of these risks and uncertainties please refer to CNAs filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, available at , including the section captioned Item 1A Risk Factors of CNAs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010.
www.cna.com
Any forward-looking statements made in this press release are made by CNA as of the date of this press release.  Further, CNA does not have any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained in this press release, even if CNAs expectations or any related events, conditions or circumstances change.
 
Page 2 of  2
 


