FILE:L/L-8K-20100716122457.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
1
 
On July 14, 2010, the principal property and casualty insurance subsidiaries of CNA Financial Corporation (CNA), Continental Casualty Company, The Continental Insurance Company, Continental Reinsurance Corporation International, Ltd. and CNA Insurance Company Limited (collectively, the CNA Insurers), entered into a Master Transaction Agreement with National Indemnity Company (NICO), a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., pursuant to which, at closing the parties will enter into a Loss Portfolio Transfer Reinsurance Agreement, which will be effective as of January 1, 2010, and certain other related agreements (collectively, the Agreements). CNA is a 90% owned subsidiary of the registrant. Under the Agreements:  (i) the CNA Insurers will cede their legacy asbestos and en vironmental pollution liabilities to NICO, up to an aggregate limit of $4 billion, net of collectible third party reinsurance and other recoveries; (ii) the CNA Insurers will pay NICO a reinsurance premium of $2 billion and will transfer to NICO billed reinsurance receivables related to asbestos and pollution claims with a net book value of approximately $200 million; (iii) NICO will deposit approximately $2.2 billion in a collateral trust account as security for NICOs obligations to the CNA Insurers; (iv) NICO will assume responsibility for certain administrative services, including claims handling, for the ceded asbestos and environmental pollution claims; and (v) Berkshire Hathaway Inc. will guarantee certain payment and performance obligations of NICO.
The closing of the transactions contemplated by the Master Transaction Agreement is subject to the receipt of required regulatory approvals and satisfaction of other closing conditions. The foregoing summary of the Agreements is qualified in its entirety by the terms and conditions of the Agreements. The Master Transaction Agreement (including the forms of the Administrative Services Agreement, the Collateral Trust Agreement, the Loss Portfolio Transfer Reinsurance Agreement and the Parental Guarantee Agreement, as well as the other exhibits to the Master Transaction Agreement) is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
2
 


