FILE:L/L-8K-20110809135727.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
1
 
On August 9, 2011, the registrant's Board of Directors increased the number of directors constituting the Board to 13 and elected Dr. Lawrence S. Bacow a director of the registrant.
The registrants press release announcing the foregoing election is incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
2
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
-- Loews Corporation (NYSE:L) announced today that Lawrence S. Bacow has been elected a director of Loews.  Dr. Bacow served as President of Tufts University from September 2001 until July 2011.  He was elected a Fellow of Harvard College in July 2011.  With the election of Dr. Bacow, the Loews Board consists of 13 directors, 10 of whom qualify as independent directors.
NEW YORK, August 9, 2011
Loews Corporation, a holding company, is one of the largest diversified corporations in the United States.  Its principal subsidiaries are CNA Financial Corporation (NYSE:  CNA), a 90% owned subsidiary; Diamond Offshore Drilling, Inc. (NYSE:  DO), a 50.4% owned subsidiary; HighMount Exploration & Production LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary; Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, LP (NYSE:  BWP), a 64% owned subsidiary; and Loews Hotels, a wholly owned subsidiary.
 
 
 


