FILE:ADP/ADP-8K-20061005135528.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02
             
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
(c) On October 5, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors appointed Mr. S. Michael Martone, 58, Group President of the Company's Employer Services business, as the Company's Chief Operating Officer, effective on the date a previously announced tax-free spin-off of 100% of the Company's Brokerage Services Group business is completed.
 
Mr. Martone joined ADP in 1987. Prior to his promotion to Group President of the Company's Employer Services business in 2004, he served as Group President of the Company's Dealer Services business from 1998 to 2004 and President of the Company's Claims Services business from 1996 to 1998.
Mr. Martone will continue to serve as Group President of the Company's Employer Services business until the tax-free spin-off of the Company's Brokerage Services Group business is completed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 5, 2006
 
 
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 
 
 
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
ADP APPOINTS S. MICHAEL MARTONE CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER
 
ROSELAND, NJ, October 5, 2006  The board of directors of Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (NYSE:ADP) has appointed S. Michael Martone to the position of chief operating officer, Gary C. Butler, president and chief executive officer, announced today.  Mr. Martone will assume his new role effective on the completion date of the previously announced tax-free spin-off of 100% of ADP's Brokerage Services Group business.  At that time, in his expanded role, Mr. Martone will retain responsibility for ADP Employer Services and will assume responsibility over ADP's Dealer Services business, with the division presidents of Employer Services and the president of Dealer Services reporting directly to him. Until then, Mr. Martone will continue to serve as group president of ADP's Employer Services business.
 
Mr. Martone has been with ADP since 1987, most recently as group president of ADP's Employer Services business.  Under his leadership, Employer Services achieved double-digit revenue, sales and earnings growth while client retention has reached an all-time high.  As president of Dealer Services and Claims Services, both businesses consistently beat their financial targets and had record results.
 
Commenting on the appointment, Mr. Butler stated, "We are pleased to move forward with a proven leader taking on the chief operating officer position. Mike has a demonstrated record of success in each of the senior roles he has held at ADP." 
 
ADP, with nearly $9 billion in revenues and more than 570,000 clients worldwide, is one of the largest providers of a broad range of premier, mission-critical, cost-effective processing and information-based business solutions.
 
 
Source: Automatic Data Processing, Inc.
ADP Investor Relations, 973.974.5858
 
 
 


