FILE:ADP/ADP-8K-20060428081536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On April 28, 2006 the Registrant issued a press release announcing the Registrants financial results for the third fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2006. A copy of the Registrants press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 28, 2006
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
ROSELAND, NJ, April 28, 2006 - Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (NYSE:ADP) reported 10% revenue growth, to $2.4 billion, and $0.61 earnings per share from continuing operations for the third fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2006, Arthur F. Weinbach, chairman and chief executive officer, announced today. On an as reported basis, including stock compensation expense in the current period, pretax and net earnings from continuing operations grew 12% and 11%, respectively, and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased 13% from $0.54 per share a year ago. Fiscal 2006 earnings comparisons are affected by the inclusion of stock compensation expense as of July 1, 2005.
 
On a comparable basis, including stock compensation expense in the third quarter of fiscal 2005, pretax and net earnings from continuing operations each grew 22%, and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased 24% from $0.49 per share a year ago.
 
On April 13, 2006, ADP completed the sale of its Claims Services (CSG) business with annual revenues of approximately $415 million. ADP expects to report a one-time pretax gain of approximately $600 million, or $480 million after tax, and net cash from the transaction of approximately $760 million, which are subject to final closing adjustments. Third quarter and year-to-date revenues and pretax earnings from continuing operations for fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005 do not include CSG. The results of operations for this business are reported within discontinued operations in the third quarter and in prior periods. The one-time gain from this transaction will be reported in discontinued operations in the fourth quarter.
 
Commenting on the results, Mr. Weinbach said, We are pleased with our strong results for the third quarter. Employer Services revenues increased 9%, with 10% internal growth, compared with the third quarter last year. In the United States, revenues from our core payroll and payroll tax filing business grew 8% in the quarter and beyond payroll revenues grew 14%. New business sales in the quarter, which reflect annualized recurring revenues anticipated from new orders, grew 8% in the United States and 10% worldwide. As we anticipated, our international business sales results were strong. We are forecasting about 10% sales growth for the year. In the United States, the number of employees on our clients payrolls increased 2.7%, with growth in all market segments. The number of employees on our clients payrolls in Europe continued to hold flat for a second consecutive quarter after several quarters of decline. During this critical year-end retention period we reached a new record level of client retention in the United States for both the third quarter and year to date.
 
 
Brokerage Services revenues grew 6%, all internal, compared with last years third quarter, driven primarily by growth in our beyond beneficial products within our investor communications business. Revenues from new sales in transaction reporting and increased volumes from existing clients in fulfillment drove beyond beneficial products revenue growth of 18%. Beneficial proxy and interim communications revenues declined 3% in the quarter due to timing of equity proxy mailings and less mutual fund meeting activity, partially offset by stock record growth. Back office revenues grew 4%, reflecting increased trade volumes of 17%, partially offset by a decline in revenue per trade of 13% resulting from a higher level of lower-rate institutional trades. Brokerage Services pretax margin declined 260 basis points due to investor communications higher new business implementation costs, various one-time charges and a change in the mix of mailings in the quarter. Securities Clearing and Outsourcing Services (SCOS) revenues were $21 million for the quarter, in line with our expectations. SCOS sales and sales pipeline continue to be strong and ahead of our expectations.
 
Dealer Services revenues grew 21%, 4% internally, favorably impacted by the acquisition of UK-based Kerridge Computer Company Ltd. Pretax margin declined 250 basis points primarily due to restructuring charges relating to the Kerridge acquisition. Dealer Services was awarded a new sales contract to be the sole dealer management systems (DMS) provider for a large dealership group in the United States with approximately 95 dealer sites. 70% of these sites already use ADP Dealer Services DMS and we expect to convert the remaining 30% over the next 18 - 20 months.
 
 
Interest on client funds grew nearly 34% over last years third quarter, to $166 million, based on a 10% increase in average client funds balances and higher interest rates. For the full year, we are forecasting c
lient funds interest income of over $540 million. This forecast is based on 10% anticipated growth in average balances and a portfolio yield of about 4% for the full year, an improvement of 60 basis points.
 
Pretax earnings in Other increased $57 million in the third quarter, assuming stock compensation was expensed in last years third quarter, primarily due to a decline in the client funds interest offset of $25.8 million, lower net realized losses of $9.5 million and lower stock compensation expense of $4.6 million.
 
We continue to anticipate 10% revenue growth for fiscal 2006, and 200 basis points of overall pretax margin expansion. For the full year, we are forecasting pretax margin expansion for Employer Services and Brokerage Services of 100 basis points and 40 basis points, respectively, as well as improvement in the client funds interest offset and lower stock compensation expense. Dealer Services pretax margin is forecasted to decline 50 basis points as we integrate the Kerridge acquisition. Our earnings per share forecast from continuing operations of $1.83 - $1.86, or 24% - 26% growth, remains unchanged. The forecast includes $10 million of increased income tax expense from an anticipated cash repatriation of the international cash proceeds from the sale of CSG and assumes stock compensation was expensed in fiscal 2005. We remain confident in achieving results toward the high end of the range.
 
Corporate cash and marketable securities were $2.0 billion at March 31, 2006 prior to the inclusion of approximately $760 million net cash received from the April 13, 2006 sale of CSG. Fiscal year-to-date, we have acquired over 12.6 million ADP shares for treasury for approximately $565 million. Share buy-back activity has increased, and we plan to continue to increase the level of share buybacks because we are optimistic about our future opportunities, Mr. Weinbach concluded.
 
The following items reflect the operations of CSG and the Brokerage Services financial print business as discontinued businesses and are posted to the investor relations home page (
http://www.investquest.com/iq/a/aud/index.htm
) of our website at
www.adp.com
under financial data:
 
 
An analyst conference call to review the third quarter results will be held today, Friday, April 28, at 1:30 p.m. EDT. A live audio webcast of the call will be available to the public on a listen-only basis. To listen to the webcast go to
www.adp.com
and click on the webcast icon. ADPs news releases, current financial information, SEC filings and Investor Relations presentations are accessible at the same website.
 
ADP, with over $8.0 billion in revenues and more than 600,000 clients worldwide, is one of the largest providers of a broad range of premier, mission-critical, cost-effective transaction processing and information-based business solutions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This release and other written or oral statements made from time to time by ADP may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements that are not historical in nature and which may be identified by the use of words like expects, assumes, projects, anticipates, estimates, we believe, could be and other words of similar meaning, are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on managements expectations and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements include: ADPs success in obtaining, retaining and selling additional services to clients; the pricing of products and services; changes in laws regulating payroll taxes, professional employer organizations, employee benefits and registered clearing agencies and broker-dealers; overall market and economic conditions, including interest rate and foreign currency trends; competitive conditions; stock market activity; auto sales and related industry changes; employment and wage levels; changes in technology; availability of skilled technical associates and the impact of new acquisitions and divestitures. ADP disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Source: Automatic Data Processing, Inc.
ADP Investor Relations
Elena Charles, 973.974.4077
Debbie Morris, 973.974.7821


