FILE:ADP/ADP-8K-20071030073027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 30, 2007 the Registrant issued a press release announcing the Registrants financial results for the first fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007.  A copy of the Registrants press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)           Exhibit 99.  Press Release dated October 30, 2007, issued by Automatic Data Processing, Inc.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99
 
 
ROSELAND, New Jersey, October 30, 2007 - Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (NYSE:ADP) reported 13.5% revenue growth to $2.0 billion for the first fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007, Gary C. Butler, president and chief executive officer, announced today.  Revenue growth benefited approximately 1% from favorable foreign exchange rates during the quarter.  On a reported basis, last years first quarter included a net one-time gain primarily from the sale of a Dealer Services non-core minority investment.  As reported, pretax and net earnings from continuing operations grew 9% and 10%, respectively, and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased 15% to $0.45 from $0.39 a year ago on fewer shares outstanding.  Excluding the net one-time gain in last years first quarter, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased 25%, and pretax and net earnings both increased 21%.
 
ADP acquired nearly 12 million shares of its stock for treasury for over $560 million fiscal year-to-date, with nearly 11 million shares purchased in the first fiscal quarter at a cost of approximately $514 million.  At September 30, 2007, cash and marketable securities balances included assets related to an outstanding reverse repurchase agreement of approximately $345 million, which matured on October 1, 2007.  Cash and marketable securities were $1.9 billion, or $1.5 billion excluding the assets related to the reverse repurchase agreement, at September 30, 2007.
 
Commenting on the results, Mr. Butler said, We are happy to report a strong start to fiscal 2008 with results ahead of our expectations.  I am particularly pleased to anticipate delivering fiscal 2008 earnings per share growth at the high end of our forecast.  The positive momentum in the businesses, as well as approximately $0.01 per share accretion anticipated for the year from share repurchases to date counteract an anticipated impact of about $0.04 to $0.05 from lower than originally planned interest on client funds.
 
Employer Services
 
Employer Services had a terrific quarter.  Revenues increased 11% for the first quarter.  In the United States, revenues from our traditional payroll and payroll tax filing business grew 8%.  Our beyond payroll revenues in the United States grew 18%.  The number of employees on our clients' payrolls in the United States increased 1.6%.  Worldwide client retention is excellent and improved 50 basis points over the prior years first quarter to a new record level.  Employer Services pretax margin improved over 50 basis points.
 
Combined new business sales growth for Employer Services and PEO Services was a healthy 11% worldwide.  New business sales represents annualized recurring revenues anticipated from new orders.  We are pleased that all market-facing businesses achieved double-digit new business sales growth.
 
PEO Services
 
PEO Services revenues increased 21% for the first quarter.  PEO Services pretax margin improved over 250 basis points.  Average worksite employees paid by PEO Services increased to approximately 165,000, or 19%, compared with the first quarter of fiscal 2007.
 
 
 
Dealer Services
 
Dealer Services also had a very solid quarter.  Revenues increased 8% for the first quarter.  New business sales growth in our International business was excellent with strong sales of our Autoline product.  North American sales of products beyond the core Dealer Management Systems were strong.  Dealer Services pretax margin improved nearly 70 basis points due to increased business momentum and expense control, partially offset by costs related to acquisitions made during the quarter.
 
Client Funds
 
Interest on funds held for clients grew approximately 15% over last year's first quarter, to $154.5 million, due to a 7.5% increase in average client funds balances to $13.5 billion and a higher average interest yield of 30 basis points to 4.6%.
 
Fiscal 2008 forecast
 
We anticipate 12% to 13% revenue growth for fiscal 2008. The increase from our previous forecast of approximately 12% revenue growth is primarily due to our current estimate of the benefit from foreign exchange rates, as well as the acquisition activity in Dealer Services.
We are confident in our ability to achieve the high-end of our 18% to 21% forecasted growth in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, up from $1.80 in fiscal 2007 which excludes the net one-time gain recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2007.
 
For Employer Services, we anticipate revenue growth of approximately 10.5%, which is slightly lower than our previous forecast based on lower forecasted growth in client funds balances.  We are raising our Employer Services pretax margin expansion forecast to 70 to 120 basis points.  We anticipate stronger results for PEO Services with 19% to 20% revenue growth and pretax margin expansion of 50 to 90 basis points.  We continue to forecast high single-digit to low double-digit new business sales growth worldwide for Employer Services and PEO Services on a combined basis.  We anticipate higher revenue growth of about 10% in Dealer Services, and lower pretax margin expansion of 70 to 90 basis points due to the first quarter acquisitions mentioned earlier.
 
We have updated our client funds portfolio forecast. The interest assumptions in our current forecast are based on Fed Funds futures contracts and forward yield curves as of October 29, 2007, which anticipate three further declines in the Fed Funds rate of 25 basis points each through the remainder of fiscal 2008.  Interest on funds held for clients is anticipated to grow approximately 8% based on expected growth of 7% to 8% in average client funds balances and an overall average interest yield of nearly 4.5%.  This forecast is $30 to $40 million lower than our previous estimate of 13% to 14% growth in interest on funds held for clients, which was based on expected growth of over 8% in average client funds balances and a 20 basis point improvement in the overall yield to 4.7%.
 
I am delighted with ADPs performance thus far in fiscal 2008, and we are on target to deliver earnings per share growth at the high end of our forecast.  Last years Employer Services acquisitions are generating terrific results in terms of selling additional business and bringing new clients to ADP in support of our strategic growth program.  We are continuing to execute on our well-defined strategic initiatives, giving us high confidence in ADPs future growth opportunities, Mr. Butler concluded.
 
Discontinued Operations
 
As previously disclosed, ADP completed the sale of its Travel Clearing business, an airline ticket clearing business based in Spain, on July 6, 2007.  This business has historically been reported in the Other segment.  Travel Clearing revenues were $74 million in fiscal 2007.  The results of operations for this business are reported within discontinued operations in the fiscal 2007 results within this release.  Discontinued operations in the current fiscal quarter include a pretax gain on the sale of approximately $88 million, $57 million after tax, or $0.11 per share.
 
Website Schedules
 
The schedules of quarterly and full-year revenue and pretax earnings by reportable segment for fiscal years 2006, 2007, and 2008 have been updated for the first quarter fiscal 2008 results and posted to the Investor Relations home page () of our website under Financial Data along with the quarterly and full-year statements of earnings for fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007.
http://www.investquest.com/iq/a/ad
p
/index.htm
www.adp.com
 
 
 
An analyst conference call will be held today, Tuesday, October 30 at 8:30 a.m. EDT.   A live webcast of the call will be available to the public on a listen-only basis.  To listen to the webcast and view the slide presentation, go to ADPs home page, , or ADPs Investor Relations home page, , and click on the webcast icon.  The presentation will be available to download and print approximately 60 minutes before the webcast at the ADP Investor Relations home page at .  ADPs news releases, current financial information, SEC filings and Investor Relations presentations are accessible at the same Web site.
www.adp.com
http://www.investquest.com/InvestQuest/a/adp/
http://www.investquest.com/iq/a/adp/index.htm
 
 
About ADP
 
Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (NYSE: ADP), with nearly $8 billion in revenues and approximately 585,000 clients, is one of the world's largest providers of business outsourcing solutions.  Leveraging more than 55 years of experience, ADP offers a wide range of HR, payroll, tax and benefits administration solutions from a single source.  ADP's easy-to-use, cost-effective solutions for employers provide superior value to companies of all types and sizes.  ADP is also a leading provider of integrated computing solutions to auto, truck, motorcycle, marine and recreational vehicle dealers throughout the world.   For more information about ADP or to contact a local ADP sales office, reach us at 1.800.225.5237 or visit the company's Web site at www.ADP.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This document and other written or oral statements made from time to time by ADP may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements that are not historical in nature and which may be identified by the use of words like "expects," "assumes," "projects," "anticipates," "estimates," "we believe," "could be" and other words of similar meaning, are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's expectations and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements include: ADP's success in obtaining, retaining and selling additional services to clients; the pricing of products and services; changes in laws regulating payroll taxes, professional employer organizations and employee benefits; overall market and economic conditions, including interest rate and foreign currency trends; competitive conditions; auto sales and related industry changes; employment and wage levels; changes in technology; availability of skilled technical associates and the impact of new acquisitions and divestitures. ADP disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. These risks and uncertainties, along with the risk factors discussed under "Item 1A. - Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements contained herein.
 
Source:  Automatic Data Processing, Inc.
 
ADP Investor Relations
Elena Charles, 973.974.4077
Debbie Morris, 973.974.7821


