FILE:ADP/ADP-8K-20070501073043.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
  
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On May 1, 2007 the Registrant issued a press release announcing the Registrants financial results for the third fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2007. A copy of the Registrants press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)
 
Exhibit 99. Press Release dated May 1, 2007, issued by Automatic Data Processing, Inc.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 1, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
ROSELAND
, New Jersey - May 1, 2007 - Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (NYSE:ADP) reported 14% revenue growth, to $2.2 billion, and $0.65 earnings per share from continuing operations for the third fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2007, Gary C. Butler, president and chief executive officer, announced today. Pretax and net earnings from continuing operations grew 15% and 16%, respectively, and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased 20%, from $0.54 a year ago on fewer shares outstanding. ADP has acquired 20.1 million shares for treasury for approximately $945 million during this fiscal year. Cash and marketable securities balances were $2.8 billion at March 31, 2007 including the cash dividend of $690 million received in connection with the Brokerage Services Group (BSG) business tax-free spin-off on March 30. The cash balance includes $73 million (U.S.) that was repatriated from BSGs Canadian operations.
 
Discontinued Operations
 
On March 30, 2007, ADP completed the tax-free spin-off of its BSG business, which was comprised of the Brokerage Services and Securities Clearing and Outsourcing Services (SCOS) segments. The results of operations for the BSG business and related separation costs are reported within discontinued operations in the third quarter and in prior periods.
 
In the third quarter ended March 31, 2007, ADP reported a gain of $11.2 million, or $6.9 million after tax, from the January 23, 2007 sale of Sandy Corporation, a business unit within its Dealer Services segment. This amount is recorded in earnings from discontinued operations in the third quarter.
 
Current Quarter Discussion
Commenting on the results, Mr. Butler said, We are extremely pleased with our strong results for the quarter. We have excellent momentum in our businesses and our key business metrics continue to be strong. In addition, in March we completed the acquisition of Intuits fully outsourced payroll business which we anticipate will contribute approximately $12 million in revenues in the current fiscal year. The Employer Services acquisitions completed in fiscal 2007 year-to-date contributed 1% of revenue growth in the third quarter.
Employer Services
Employer Services revenues increased 12% for the third quarter compared with last year, reflecting continued strength in the business. In the United States, revenues from our traditional payroll and payroll tax filing business grew 8%, and beyond payroll revenue growth was particularly strong at 23%. New business sales in the quarter, which reflect annualized recurring revenues anticipated from new orders, grew 13% in the United States and 12% worldwide. National Account Services, TotalSource, Major Accounts Services and GlobalView
 
continued to post strong sales results. Worldwide client retention, while just below last years record level, remained excellent. The number of employees on our clients' payrolls in the United States increased 3% with growth in all market segments, and Europe continued to show growth compared with a year ago. As anticipated, pretax margin declined approximately 50 basis points in the quarter as a result of a 60 basis point decline due to acquisition activity to date. The continuation in the quarter of the higher step-off level of expenses from last fiscal year were offset by margin improvement from leveraging the growth in the business. The higher step-off level of expenses relates to our investments in sales and implementation headcount and our HR BPO growth initiatives that increased toward the end of last years third quarter. As we anniversary that higher expense level in the fourth quarter, we continue to anticipate very strong fourth quarter pretax margin improvement, which is forecasted to drive pretax margin improvement for the full year.
Dealer Services
Dealer Services revenues increased 8% for the third quarter, and 6% internally, excluding the effect of acquisitions. Revenue growth was driven by strong sales in our North American market, as well as internationally. Dealer Services pretax margin improved 340 basis points due to cost synergies attained in the international business from the integration of Kerridge Computer Company Ltd (Kerridge) as well as restructuring charges in last years third quarter relating to the Kerridge acquisition.
Client Funds
"Interest on client funds grew 19% over last year's third quarter, to $198 million, due to an 8.3% increase in average client funds balances and a higher average interest yield of 40 basis points.
Fiscal 2007 Guidance
We are highly confident that ADP will grow revenues over 13% for the year. The increase from our previous 12% to 13% revenue growth forecast is primarily due to our current estimate of the benefit from foreign exchange rates. We are equally confident that ADP will attain the high end of our earnings per share from continuing operations forecast of $1.79 to $1.83, or 20% to 23% growth, compared with $1.49 earnings per share from continuing operations in fiscal 2006.
The fiscal 2007 estimates include:
The fiscal 2007 estimates exclude:
For fiscal 2007 we continue to forecast Employer Services revenue growth of 12% and pretax margin improvement of 20 basis points driven by a particularly strong fourth quarter. While we anticipate a tough comparison for new business sales growth in the fourth quarter compared with last years particularly strong fourth quarter, we continue to anticipate double-digit new business sales growth for the year. We continue to anticipate approximately 14% revenue growth in Dealer Services with pretax margin improvement of over 100 basis points. We anticipate an increase of approximately 18% in client funds interest revenues based on expected growth of approximately 8% in average client funds balances and a 40 basis point improvement in the client portfolio average interest yield to about 4.5%. Our interest assumptions are based on recent futures contracts and forward yield curves.
 
We are very pleased with our results for the third quarter. Our opportunities for growth are unique, and we continue to be excited about ADPs future growth prospects, Mr. Butler concluded.
 
Fiscal 2007 discontinued operations include the following items:
 
The schedules noted below have been restated to reflect the above items as discontinued operations and are posted to the Investor Relations home page (
http://www.investquest.com/iq/a/adp/index.htm
) of our website
www.adp.com
under financial data:
 
An analyst conference call will be held today, Tuesday, May 1 at 8:30 a.m. EDT. A live webcast of the call will be available to the public on a listen-only basis. To listen to the webcast and view the slide presentation, go to
www.adp.com
and click
on the webcast icon. The presentation will be available to download and print approximately 60 minutes before the webcast at the ADP Investor Relations home page at
http://www.investquest.com/iq/a/adp/index.htm
. ADPs news releases, current financial information, SEC filings and Investor Relations presentations are accessible at the same website.
 
ADP, with over $7 billion in revenues and more than 570,000 clients worldwide, is one of the largest providers of a broad range of premier, mission-critical, cost-effective transaction processing and information-based business solutions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This document and other written or oral statements made from time to time by ADP may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements that are not historical in nature and which may be identified by the use of words like "expects," "assumes," "projects," "anticipates," "estimates," "we believe," "could be" and other words of similar meaning, are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's expectations and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements include: ADP's success in obtaining, retaining and selling additional services to clients; the pricing of products and services; changes in laws regulating payroll taxes, professional employer organizations and employee benefits; overall market and economic conditions, including interest rate and foreign currency trends; competitive conditions; auto sales and related industry changes; employment and wage levels; changes in technology; availability of skilled technical associates and the impact of new acquisitions and divestitures. ADP disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. These risks and uncertainties, along with the risk factors discussed under "Item 1A. - Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements contained herein.
 
Source: Automatic Data Processing, Inc.
ADP Investor Relations
Elena Charles, 973.974.4077
Debbie Morris, 973.974.7821
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


