FILE:ADP/ADP-8K-20080501160531.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of The
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
May 1, 2008
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(973) 974-5000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 1, 2008 the Registrant issued a press release announcing the Registrants financial results for the second fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2008. A copy of the Registrants press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is hereby incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)       Exhibit 99.  Press Release dated May 1, 2008, issued by Automatic Data Processing, Inc.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99
ADP Reports Third Quarter Fiscal 2008 Results; Confirms Fiscal 2008 Revenue and EPS from Continuing Operations Growth Forecasts
ADP delivered 12% revenue growth and 18% diluted earnings per share from continuing operations growth in its fiscal third quarter. Segment operating results, including improved margins, and the benefit of fewer shares outstanding, resulted in strong EPS growth.
ROSELAND, N.J.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (NYSE:ADP) announced 12% revenue growth to $2.4 billion for the third fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2008, Gary C. Butler, president and chief executive officer, announced today. Revenue growth benefited over 2% from favorable foreign exchange rates during the quarter. Pretax and net earnings from continuing operations grew 11% and 12%, respectively, compared with last years third quarter. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.77 increased 18% from $0.65 a year ago on fewer average shares outstanding.
Fiscal year to date, ADP acquired nearly 24 million shares of its stock for treasury at a cost of almost $1.1 billion. At March 31, 2008, cash and marketable securities balances were $1.7 billion.
I am pleased with the solid results ADP achieved for the third quarter, Mr. Butler commented. We are in the midst of a challenging economy, and as a result, growth in both new business sales and the number of employees on our clients payrolls moderated in the quarter. We have seen a lengthening of the sales cycle in the high-end of the market in National Accounts Services and GlobalView. Therefore, we have revised our forecast for the year to high single-digit new business sales growth, which is within our original forecast of high single-digit to low double-digit growth.
Employer Services
Employer Services revenues increased 9% for the third quarter, 8% organically, compared with a year ago. In the United States, revenues from our traditional payroll and payroll tax filing business grew 8%, and our beyond payroll revenues, excluding PEO Services revenues, grew 13%. The number of employees on our clients' payrolls in the United States increased 1.1% as measured on a same store sales basis for our Major Accounts Auto Pay clients. Pay growth in Europe continued to be positive compared with last year. During this critical year-end retention period, worldwide client retention increased 90 basis points over the prior years third quarter. Employer Services pretax margin improved 90 basis points as a result of continued operating leverage.
Combined new business sales for Employer Services and PEO Services grew over 4% worldwide. New business sales represent annualized recurring revenues anticipated from new orders. The quarters new business sales were strong in Small Business Services, Major Accounts Services, and in our International in-country business. Sales at the high-end of the market in National Accounts Services and GlobalView have moderated, reflecting a lengthening of the sales cycle, as evidenced by sales that we anticipated closing in the third quarter that instead closed in April.
PEO Services
PEO Services revenues increased 20% for the third quarter, all organic, compared with a year ago. PEO Services pretax margin improved 70 basis points. Average worksite employees paid by PEO Services increased 17% to approximately 181,000 compared with the third quarter of fiscal 2007.
Dealer Services
Dealer Services revenues increased 8% for the third quarter, over 5% organically, compared with a year ago. Overall new business sales growth slowed with strong sales in beyond the core Dealer Management Systems (DMS) solutions offsetting slower growth in the core DMS. Dealer Services pretax margin expanded 40 basis points in the quarter compared with a year ago from increased operating leverage, partially offset by costs relating to the acquisitions of three Autoline distributors that were completed earlier in the year.
Client Funds
"Interest on funds held for clients was flat compared to last year's third quarter, at $198.5 million, due to a 6.2% increase in average client funds balances to $18.7 billion, offset by a lower average interest yield of nearly 30 basis points to 4.2% from an average interest yield of 4.5% last year, excluding gains and losses.
Fiscal 2008 Forecast
Although ADP has been somewhat impacted by the slowing economy, we continue to anticipate strong revenue and earnings per share growth for fiscal 2008. We remain confident in attaining our revenue growth forecast of 12% to 13%, which includes approximately two percentage points from foreign exchange rates. We are equally confident in achieving the high end of our earnings per share growth forecast of 18% to 21% in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, up from $1.80 in fiscal 2007, which excludes the net one-time gain recorded in the first quarter of fiscal 2007.
For Employer Services, we anticipate revenue growth of nearly 10%. We are narrowing our forecasted pretax margin expansion for Employer Services to 80 to 100 basis points from our previous forecast of 70 to 110 basis points. For PEO Services, we continue to anticipate 19% to 20% revenue growth and pretax margin expansion of 50 to 90 basis points. We are forecasting high single-digit new business sales growth worldwide for Employer Services and PEO Services on a combined basis, which is slightly lower than our previous forecast of high single-digit to low double-digit growth. For Dealer Services, we anticipate nearly 9% revenue growth. We are lowering our forecasted pretax margin expansion for Dealer Services to about 70 basis points from our previous forecast of 70 to 90 basis points improvement.
Interest on funds held for clients is still anticipated to grow 3% to 4% based on expected growth of 6% to 7% in average client funds balances and a full-year average interest yield of nearly 4.4%, compared with the fiscal 2007 average interest yield of nearly 4.5%, excluding gains and losses. The interest assumptions in our current forecasts are based on Fed Funds futures contracts and forward yield curves as of April 30, 2008. The Fed Funds futures contracts do not anticipate any further changes in the Fed Funds rate through June 30, 2008, the end of our fiscal year, thus exiting the fiscal year with a Fed Funds rate of 2.00%. The forward yield curves as of April 30, 2008 indicate fixed income rates in line with our last guidance update on March 25, 2008.
I am pleased with ADPs performance through our first nine months of fiscal 2008 with revenue growth of 13% and an increase in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of 20%. We remain on target to deliver strong forecasted results for the year. ADPs market leading solutions are exceptionally strong. We intend to continue with our commitment to invest in new products, salesforce expansion, and implementation and client service resources while remaining diligent around pretax margin expansion. We believe that our continued focus on our five-point strategic growth program will enable us to continue to deliver both strong revenue growth and margin improvement over our strategic planning horizon. Mr. Butler concluded.
Website Schedules
The schedules of quarterly and full-year revenue and pretax earnings by reportable segment for fiscal years 2006, 2007, and 2008 have been updated for the third quarter fiscal 2008 results and posted to the Investor Relations home page () of our website under Financial Data along with the quarterly and full-year statements of earnings for fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2007.
http://www.investquest.com/iq/a/adp/index.htm
www.adp.com
An analyst conference call will be held today, Thursday, May 1 at 5:00 p.m. EDT. A live webcast of the call will be available to the public on a listen-only basis. To listen to the webcast and view the slide presentation, go to ADPs home page, , or ADPs Investor Relations home page, , and click on the webcast icon. The presentation will be available to download and print approximately 60 minutes before the webcast at the ADP Investor Relations home page at . ADPs news releases, current financial information, SEC filings and Investor Relations presentations are accessible at the same Web site.
www.adp.com
http://www.investquest.com/InvestQuest/a/adp/
http://www.investquest.com/iq/a/adp/index.htm
About ADP
Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (NYSE: ADP), with nearly $8 billion in revenues and over 600,000 clients, is one of the world's largest providers of business outsourcing solutions. Leveraging more than 55 years of experience, ADP offers a wide range of HR, payroll, tax and benefits administration solutions from a single source. ADP's easy-to-use, cost-effective solutions for employers provide superior value to companies of all types and sizes. ADP is also a leading provider of integrated computing solutions to auto, truck, motorcycle, marine and recreational vehicle dealers throughout the world. For more information about ADP or to contact a local ADP sales office, reach us at 1.800.225.5237 or visit the company's Web site at .
www.ADP.com
This document and other written or oral statements made from time to time by ADP may contain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Statements that are not historical in nature and which may be identified by the use of words like "expects," "assumes," "projects," "anticipates," "estimates," "we believe," "could be" and other words of similar meaning, are forward-looking statements. These statements are based on management's expectations and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements include: ADP's success in obtaining, retaining and selling additional services to clients; the pricing of products and services; changes in laws regulating payroll taxes, professional employer organizations and employee benefits; overall market and economic conditions, including interest rate and foreign currency trends; competitive conditions; auto sales and related industry changes; employment and wage levels; changes in technology; availability of skilled technical associates and the impact of new acquisitions and divestitures. ADP disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. These risks and uncertainties, along with the risk factors discussed under "Item 1A. - Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements contained herein.
CONTACT: ADP Investor Relations Elena Charles, 973-974-4077 Debbie Morris, 973-974-7821


