FILE:ADP/ADP-8K-20080813132657.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
(e)       Automatic Data Processing, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), has amended the form of stock option award agreement it will use for grants to employees under its 2000 Stock Option Plan. Material features of the new form of stock option award agreement are as follows:
Vesting Period
. Stock option awards will vest over four years.
Continued vesting following certain retirements.
An optionholder who retires following the first anniversary of the date of grant and who at the time of retirement satisfies the Company's conditions for "normal retirement" will continue to vest in his option at the originally scheduled vesting dates. "Normal retirement" means retirement (as defined by the Company) after the age of 55 with 10 years or more of service with the Company or its subsidiaries.
Acceleration for death or disability
. Stock options will become fully vested and exercisable upon the death or total and permanent disability of (i) an optionholder who is an active employee, (ii) a former employee who satisfied the Company's normal retirement criteria or (iii) a former employee who in the previous 12 months retired on or after age 55 with five or more (but less than 10) years of service with the Company and its subsidiaries.
Period for exercise
. Options granted under the new form of stock option award shall expire 60 days from the date of termination of the optionholder's employment with the Company or its subsidiaries, provided, that
In no event will any options remain exercisable following the tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
 
 
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the new form of stock option award agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.25.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 13, 2008
 
 
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 
 
 
 

STOCK OPTION GRANT
 
AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. (the "Company"), pursuant to the 2000 Stock Option Plan (the "Plan"), hereby irrevocably grants to
FirstName LastName
, (the "Participant"), on XXXX XX, 200_ the right and option to purchase
Shares
shares of the Common Stock of the Company on the following terms and conditions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


