FILE:ADP/ADP-8K-20110519164441.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC.
 
 
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
 
(973) 974-5000                                                                        
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)           At its meeting on May 19, 2011, the Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (the Company) Board of Directors named Carlos A. Rodriguez as the Companys new President and Chief Operating Officer effective June 1, 2011.
,
Mr. Rodriguez, age 46, has been employed by the Company since 1999.  Prior to his promotion in 2010 to President, Employer Services  National Account Services and Employer Services  International, he served as President, Small Business Services, Employer Services, from 2007 to 2010 and as President of TotalSource, Employer Services from 2000 to 2007.
(c)              Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 19, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE                           
ROSELAND, New Jersey, May 19, 2011 - The Board of Directors of Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (Nasdaq:  ADP) has appointed Carlos A. Rodriguez to the position of president and chief operating officer, announced Gary C. Butler, ADPs chief executive officer.   Mr. Rodriguez will assume his new role effective June 1, 2011.
Mr. Rodriguez has been with ADP since 1999, most recently as President of National Accounts Services and Employer Services International.  Mr. Rodriguez joined ADP through the 1999 acquisition of Vincam, where he served initially as CFO for a short period before becoming president of ADP TotalSource.   Under his leadership, TotalSource became the fastest growing, as well as the largest, PEO in the industry.  Mr. Rodriguez also spent several years as president of ADP's Small Business operations, which included ADP TotalSource and ADP Retirement Services.   Under the leadership of Mr. Rodriguez, ADP's Small Business Services enjoyed excellent revenue growth, notable improvement in client service, and importantly launched the "RUN Powered by ADP platform, which has become ADP's fastest growing product platform.
Commenting on the appointment, Mr. Butler said, "We are pleased to move forward with a proven leader taking on the position of president and chief operating officer.   Carlos has demonstrated a record of success in each of the senior roles he has held at ADP."
Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (Nasdaq: ADP), with nearly $9 billion in revenues and about 550,000 clients, is one of the world's largest providers of business outsourcing solutions.  Leveraging over 60 years of experience, ADP offers a wide range of HR, payroll, tax and benefits administration solutions from a single source.  ADP's easy-to-use, cost-effective solutions for employers provide superior value to companies of all types and sizes.  ADP is also a leading provider of integrated computing solutions to auto, truck, motorcycle, marine and recreational vehicle dealers throughout the world.   For more information about ADP or to contact a local ADP sales office, reach us at 1.800.225.5237 or visit the company's Web site at www.ADP.com.
 
 
Source: Automatic Data Processing, Inc.
ADP Investor Relations, 973.974.5858


