FILE:ADP/ADP-8K-20121101073238.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) On November 1, 2012, Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (the "Company") announced that the Company and Christopher Reidy have mutually agreed that Mr. Reidy would no longer serve as Chief Financial Officer of the Company after November 2, 2012. Mr. Reidy will remain available through calendar year-end to facilitate an orderly transition of his responsibilities to his successor.
(c) On November 1, 2012, the Company announced that Jan Siegmund, the Company's Chief Strategy Officer and President, Added Value Services, has been appointed Chief Financial Officer of the Company, effective November 5, 2012. Mr. Siegmund, who is 48 years old, joined the Company in 1999 as Vice President of Corporate Strategy and has held increasingly senior executive leadership positions since that time. Prior to his promotion, he served as both Chief Strategy Officer, with overall responsibility for the Company's strategy, product management, marketing and corporate development, as well as President of the Added Value Services division, overseeing tax, compliance services and insurance services. He assumed these positions in 2009 and 2007, respectively. Prior to these roles, Mr. Siegmund served as the Company's Corporate Vice President, Strategic Development from 2004 to 2007 and as Senior Vice President of Strategic Development, Brokerage Services at the Company's Brokerage Services Group from 2000 to 2004.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report on Form 8-K:
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
ROSELAND, N.J., Nov. 1, 2012 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (Nasdaq:ADP), a leading provider of human capital management solutions, today announced that Jan Siegmund, ADP's Chief Strategy Officer and President, Added Value Services, has been appointed Chief Financial Officer, effective November 5, 2012. He succeeds Chris Reidy, who has served as CFO since 2006. Mr. Reidy will remain available through calendar year-end to facilitate an orderly transition of his responsibilities to Mr. Siegmund.
Mr. Siegmund, 48, joined ADP in 1999 as Vice President of Corporate Strategy and has held increasingly senior executive leadership positions since that time. Most recently, he served as both Chief Strategy Officer, with overall responsibility for ADP's strategy, product management, marketing and corporate development, as well as President of the Added Value Services division, overseeing tax, compliance services and insurance services. He assumed these positions in 2009 and 2007, respectively.  Prior to these roles, Mr. Siegmund served as ADP's Corporate Vice President, Strategic Development from 2004 to 2007 and as Senior Vice President of Strategic Development, Brokerage Services at ADP's Brokerage Services Group from 2000 to 2004. Prior to ADP, Mr. Siegmund spent six years at McKinsey & Company where he led consulting engagements primarily in the financial services industry. He holds a PhD in economics and a master of science degree in industrial engineering.
"Jan brings financial expertise, extensive knowledge of ADP and our industry, and strong leadership and strategic skills to his new role as CFO," said Carlos A. Rodriguez, ADP President and Chief Executive Officer. "Jan has been instrumental in developing ADP's growth strategy, resulting in the company's expansion into a number of key new markets. We have worked closely together for many years, and I am pleased to be promoting such a proven leader from within our ranks. His financial acumen and strong analytical capabilities are complemented by a knowledgeable, long-serving team of financial professionals, including Corporate Controller Alan Sheiness and Corporate Treasurer Michael Eberhard, both corporate officers of ADP."
Mr. Rodriguez continued, "On behalf of all of us at ADP, I want to thank Chris for his dedicated service as CFO. During his tenure, he built an accomplished finance organization and made many important contributions that benefited ADP. We wish Chris continued success in his future endeavors."
ADP will commence a search that will consider internal and external candidates to fill the positions previously held by Mr. Siegmund.  
About ADP
Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (Nasdaq:ADP), with more than $10 billion in revenues and approximately 600,000 clients, is one of the world's largest providers of business outsourcing solutions. Leveraging over 60 years of experience, ADP offers a wide range of human resource, payroll, tax and benefits administration solutions from a single source. ADP's easy-to-use solutions for employers provide superior value to companies of all types and sizes. ADP is also a leading provider of integrated computing solutions to auto, truck, motorcycle, marine, recreational vehicle, and heavy equipment dealers throughout the world. For more information about ADP or to contact a local ADP sales office, reach us at 1.800.225.5237 or visit the company's Web site at www.adp.com.
CONTACT: ADP Investor Relations, Elena Charles at 973.974.4077


