FILE:GME/GME-8K-20070207163007.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
On February 7, 2007, at a special stockholders meeting of the Class B stockholders of GameStop Corp. (the "Company"), its Class B stockholders approved an amendment and restatement of the Company's amended and restated certificate of incorporation to convert each share of Class B common stock into Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis and eliminate Class B common stock. A copy of the Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company is attached as Exhibit 10.1.
 
 
On February 7, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing that at a special stockholders meeting, its Class B stockholders approved the proposal to convert each share of Class B common stock into Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis. After the stock market closes on February 7, 2007, the Class B shares (GME.B) will no longer be traded on the New York Stock Exchange. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
SECOND
AMENDED AND RESTATED
CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
OF
GAMESTOP CORP.
GameStop Corp., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, pursuant to Sections 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as the same may be amended and supplemented (the "
GCL
"), hereby certifies as follows:
            
1.
The name of this corporation is GameStop Corp. At the time of incorporation GameStop Corp. was known as GSC Holdings Corp. The original Certificate of Incorporation was filed on April 13, 2005 and was amended and restated on June 27, 2005.
            
2.
This Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation restates and integrates and further amends the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to read in its entirety as follows:
         
SECOND
:
The registered office of the Corporation is to be located at 1209 Orange Street, City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware. The name of its registered agent at that address is The Corporation Trust Company.
             
THIRD
:
The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which a corporation may be organized under the GCL.
                 
FOURTH
:
(a)
Authorized Capital Stock
. The total number of shares of stock that the Corporation shall have authority to issue is 305,000,000 of which (i) 300,000,000 shares shall be shares of Class A Common Stock, par value $.00l per share (the "
Class A Common Stock
" or "
Common Stock
"), and (ii) 5,000,000 shares shall be shares of Preferred Stock, par value $.001 per share (the "
Preferred Stock
"), issuable in one or more series as hereinafter provided. The number of authorized shares of any class or classes of capital stock of the Corporation may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors ("
Voting Stock
") irrespective of the provisions of Section 242(b)(2) of the GCL or any corresponding provision hereinafter enacted.
 
1
 
Effective upon the filing of this Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, each share of the Company's Class B Common Stock, par value $.001 per share (the "
Class B Common Stock
"), outstanding immediately prior thereto shall thereupon automatically be converted into one share of Class A Common Stock (and outstanding certificates that had theretofore represented shares of Class B Common Stock shall thereupon represent the number of shares of Class A Common Stock they have been converted into despite the absence of any indication thereon to that effect).
 
 
(A) The holders of shares of Class A Common Stock shall be entitled to one vote in person or by proxy for each share of Class A Common Stock standing in such holder's name on the transfer books of the Corporation in connection with the election of directors and all other matters submitted to a vote of stockholders.
         
(B)
All rights to vote and all power (including, without limitation, thereto, the right to elect directors) shall be vested exclusively in the holders of Class A Common Stock, except as expressly provided in this Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, in a Certificate of Designation with respect to any Preferred Stock or as otherwise expressly required by applicable law.
         
(C)
No stockholder shall be entitled to exercise any right of cumulative voting.
          
(ii)
Dividends and Distributions
. Subject to the rights of the holders of Preferred Stock, and subject to any other provisions of this Certificate of Incorporation, holders of Class A Common Stock shall be entitled to receive such dividends and other distributions in cash, stock of any corporation or property of the Corporation as may be declared thereon by the Board of Directors from time to time out of assets or funds of the Corporation legally available therefor and shall share equally on a per share basis in all such dividends and other distributions.
        
(iii)
Liquidation Rights
. In the event of any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, after payment in full of the amounts required to be paid to the holders of Preferred Stock, the remaining assets and funds of the Corporation shall be distributed pro rata to the holders of Class A Common Stock. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(iii), the voluntary sale, conveyance, lease, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation or a consolidation or merger of the Corporation with one or more other corporations (whether or not the Corporation is the corporation surviving such consolidation or merger) shall not be deemed to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up, voluntary or involuntary.
 
2
 
         
(iv)
No Preemptive Rights
. No stockholder of the Corporation shall have any preemptive or preferential right, nor be entitled as such as a matter of right, to subscribe for or purchase any part of any new or additional issue of stock of the Corporation of any class or series, whether now or hereafter authorized, and whether issued for money or for consideration other than money, or of any issue of securities convertible into stock of the Corporation.
          
(v)
No Redemption Rights
. No stockholder of the Corporation shall have any right to have the shares of Common Stock held by such holder redeemed by the Corporation.
          
(c)
Series A Preferred Stock
. A series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation hereby is created, and the designation and amount thereof, and the voting powers, preferences and relative, optional and other special rights of the shares of such series, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, are as follows:
           
(i)
Designation, Par Value and Amount
. The shares of such series shall be designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" (the "
Series A Preferred
"), the shares of such series shall be with par value of $.001 per share, and the number of shares constituting such series shall be 500,000;
provided
,
however
, that, if more than a total of 500,000 shares of Series A Preferred shall be issuable upon the exercise of Rights (the "
Rights
") issued pursuant to the Rights Agreement, dated as of June 27, 2005, between the Corporation and
The Bank of New York, as Rights Agent (as amended from time to time) (the "
Rights Agreement
"), the Board of Directors, pursuant to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, shall direct by resolution or resolutions that a certificate be properly executed, acknowledged and filed providing for the total number of shares of Series A Preferred authorized to be issued to be increased (to the extent that the Certificate of Incorporation then permits) to the largest number of whole shares (rounded up to the nearest whole number) issuable upon exercise of the Rights.
         
(A)
Subject to the prior and superior rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock ranking prior and superior to the shares of Series A Preferred with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred, in preference to the holders of Class A Common Stock and any other junior stock, shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends payable in cash on the 30th day of each of April, July, October and January in each year (or, in each case, if not a date on which the Corporation is open for business, the next succeeding business day) or such earlier date in any such month on which dividends on the Common Stock are payable (each such date being referred to herein as a "
Quarterly Dividend Payment Date
"), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred, in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a) $1.00 or (b) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 1,000 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 1,000 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or a subdivision of the
 
3
 
outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock, since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after June 27, 2005 (the "
Rights Declaration Date
") (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred were entitled immediately prior to such event under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
         
(B)
The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A Preferred as provided in paragraph (A) above immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided that, in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $1.00 per share on the Series A Preferred shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.
         
(C)
Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series A Preferred from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares of Series A Preferred, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares of Series A Preferred in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be no more than 30 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.
        
(iii)
Voting Rights
. The holders of shares of Series A Preferred shall have the following voting rights:
         
(A)
Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each share of Series A Preferred shall entitle the holder thereof to 10,000 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in
 
4
 
shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of votes entitled to be cast by the holders of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of votes entitled to be cast by the holders of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
         
(B)
Except as otherwise provided herein or by law, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred and the holders of shares of Common Stock shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation.
                  
(C)
(1)
If at any time dividends on any Series A Preferred shall be in arrears in an amount equal to six (6) quarterly dividends thereon, the occurrence of such contingency shall mark the beginning of a period (herein called a "default period") which shall extend until such time when all accrued and unpaid dividends for all previous quarterly dividend periods and for the current quarterly dividend period on all shares of Series A Preferred then outstanding shall have been declared and paid or set apart for payment. During each default period, all holders of Preferred Stock (including holders of the Series A Preferred) with dividends in arrears in an amount equal to six (6) quarterly dividends thereon, voting as a class, irrespective of series, shall have the right to elect two (2) Directors.
          
(2)
During any default period, such voting right of the holders of Series A Preferred may be exercised initially at a special meeting called pursuant to subparagraph (3) of this paragraph (iii)(C) or at any annual meeting of stockholders, and thereafter at annual meetings of stockholders, provided that neither such voting right nor the right of the holders of any other series of Preferred Stock, if any, to increase, in certain cases, the authorized number of Directors shall be exercised unless the holders of ten percent (10%) in number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding shall be present in person or by proxy. The absence of a quorum of the holders of Common Stock shall not affect the exercise by the holders of Preferred Stock of such voting right. At any meeting at which the holders of Preferred Stock shall exercise such voting right initially during an existing default period, they shall have the right, voting as a class, to elect Directors to fill such vacancies, if any, in the Board of Directors as may then exist up to two (2) Directors or, if such right is exercised at an annual meeting, to elect two (2) Directors. If the number which may be so elected at any special meeting does not amount to the required number, the holders of the Preferred Stock shall have the right to make such increase in the number of Directors as shall be necessary to permit the election by them of the required number. After the holders of the Preferred Stock shall have exercised their right to elect Directors in any default period and during the continuance of such period, the number of Directors shall not be increased or decreased except by vote of the holders of Preferred Stock as herein provided or pursuant to the rights of any equity securities ranking senior to or pari passu with the Series A Preferred.
 
5
 
(3) Unless the holders of Preferred Stock shall, during an existing default period, have previously exercised their right to elect Directors, the Board of Directors may order, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate not less than ten percent (10%) of the total number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding, irrespective of series, may request, the calling of a special meeting of the holders of Preferred Stock, which meeting shall thereupon be called by the Chairman of the Board, any Vice Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, any Vice-President or the Secretary of the Corporation. Notice of such meeting and of any annual meeting at which holders of Preferred Stock are entitled to vote pursuant to this subparagraph (C)(3) shall be given to each holder of record of Preferred Stock by mailing a copy of such notice to him at his last address as the same appears on the books of the Corporation. Such meeting shall be called for a time not earlier than 20 days and not later than 60 days after such order or request or in default of the calling of such meeting within 60 days after such order or request, such meeting may be called on similar notice by any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate not less than ten percent (10%) of the total number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding. Notwithstanding the provisions of this subparagraph (C)(3), no such special meeting shall be called during the period within 60 days immediately preceding the date fixed for the next annual meeting of the stockholders.
          
(4)
In any default period, the holders of Common Stock, and other classes of stock of the Corporation if applicable, shall continue to be entitled to elect the whole number of Directors until the holders of Preferred Stock shall have exercised their right to elect two (2) Directors voting as a class, after the exercise of which right (x) the Directors so elected by the holders of Preferred Stock shall continue in office until their successors shall have been elected by such holders or until the expiration of the default period, and (y) any vacancy in the Board of Directors may (except as provided in subparagraph (C)(2) of this paragraph (iii)) be filled by vote of a majority of the remaining Directors theretofore elected by the holders of the class of stock which elected the Director whose office shall have become vacant. References in this subparagraph (C) to Directors elected by the holders of a particular class of stock shall include Directors elected by such Directors to fill vacancies as provided in clause (y) of the foregoing sentence.
          
(5)
Immediately upon the expiration of a default period, (x) the right of the holders of Preferred Stock as a class to elect Directors shall cease, (y) the term of any Directors elected by the holders of Preferred Stock as a class shall terminate, and (z) the number of Directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws of the Corporation (the "
By-laws
") irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of subparagraph (C)(2) of this paragraph (iii) (such number being subject, however to change thereafter in any manner provided by law or in the Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws). Any vacancies in the Board of Directors effected by the provisions of clauses (y) and (z) in the preceding sentence may be filled by a majority of the remaining Directors.
         
(D)
Except as set forth herein, holders of Series A Preferred shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent
 
6
 
they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action.
         
(A)
Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series A Preferred as provided in paragraph (i) are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Preferred outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not:
(1) declare or pay dividends on, make any other distributions on, or redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred;
(2) declare or pay dividends on or make any other distributions on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Preferred and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled;
(3) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred, provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such parity stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the Corporation ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A Preferred; or
(4) purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Series A Preferred, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity with the Series A Preferred, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.
         
(B)
The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph (iv), purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
 
7
 
          
(v)
Reacquired Shares
. Any shares of Series A Preferred purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock to be created by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors, subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein.
         
(vi)
Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up
. (A) Upon any liquidation (voluntary or otherwise), dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, no distribution shall be made to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred shall have received $1,000 per share, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment (the "
Series A Liquidation Preference
"). Following the payment of the full amount of the Series A Liquidation Preference, no additional distributions shall be made to the holders of shares of Series A Preferred unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Common Stock shall have received an amount per share (the "
Common Adjustment
") equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (i) the Series A Liquidation Preference by (ii) 1,000 (as appropriately adjusted as set forth in subparagraph (c) below to reflect such events as stock splits, stock dividends and recapitalizations with respect to the Common Stock) (such number in clause (ii), the "
Adjustment Number
"). Following the payment of the full amount of the Series A Liquidation Preference and the Common Adjustment in respect of all outstanding shares of Series A Preferred and Common Stock, respectively, holders of Series A Preferred and holders of shares of Common Stock shall receive their ratable and proportionate share of the remaining assets to be distributed in the ratio of the Adjustment Number to 1 with respect to such Preferred Stock and Common Stock, on a per share basis, respectively.
         
(B)
In the event there are not sufficient assets available to permit payment in full of the Series A Liquidation Preference and the liquidation preferences of all other series of preferred stock, if any, which rank on a parity with the Series A Preferred, then such remaining assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders of such parity shares in proportion to their respective liquidation preferences. In the event there are not sufficient assets available to permit payment in full of the Common Adjustment, then such remaining assets shall be distributed ratably to the holders of Common Stock.
         
(C)
In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the Adjustment Number in effect immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such Adjustment Number by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
 
8
 
       
(vii)
Consolidation, Merger, etc
. In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case the shares of Series A Preferred shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed in an amount per share (subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth) equal to 1,000 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Series A Preferred shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that are outstanding immediately prior to such event.
      
(viii)
No Redemption
. The shares of Series A Preferred shall not be redeemable.
         
(ix)
Ranking
. The Series A Preferred shall rank junior to all other series of the Corporation's Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets, unless the terms of any such series shall provide otherwise.
          
(x)
Amendment
. The Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation shall not be further amended in any manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series A Preferred so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority or more of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred, voting separately as a class.
         
(xi)
Fractional Shares
. Series A Preferred may be issued in fractions of a share which shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such holders fractional shares, to exercise voting rights, receive dividends, participate in distributions and to have the benefit of all other rights of holders of Series A Preferred.
(i)
Authorization
. Subject to the voting and approval procedures set forth in the By-laws, the Board of Directors is hereby expressly granted authority to authorize from time to time in accordance with law the issuance of the remaining 4,500,000 shares of Preferred Stock, one or more series of Preferred Stock and with respect to any such series to fix by resolution or resolutions the numbers, powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of such series and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, including but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the following:
 
9
 
         
(A)
entitling the holders thereof to cumulative, non-cumulative or partially cumulative dividends, or to no dividends;
         
(B)
entitling the holders thereof to receive dividends payable on a parity with, junior to, or in preference to, the dividends payable on any other class or series of capital stock of the Corporation;
         
(C)
entitling the holders thereof to rights upon the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of, or upon any other distribution of the assets of, the Corporation, on a parity with, junior to or in preference to, the rights of any other class or series of capital stock of the Corporation;
         
(D)
providing for the conversion, at the option of the holder or of the Corporation or both, of the shares of Preferred Stock into shares of any other class or classes of capital stock of the Corporation or of any series of the same or any other class or classes or into property of the Corporation or into the securities or properties of any other corporation or person, including provision for adjustment of the conversion rate in such events as the Board of Directors shall determine, or providing for no conversion;
          
(E)
providing for the redemption, in whole or in part, of the shares of Preferred Stock at the option of the Corporation or the holder thereof, in cash, bonds or other property, at such price or prices (which amount may vary under different conditions and at different redemption dates), within such period or periods, and under such conditions as the Board of Directors shall so provide, including provisions for the creation of a sinking fund for the redemption thereof, or providing for no redemption;
          
(F)
lacking voting rights or having limited voting rights or enjoying general, special or multiple voting rights;
         
(G)
specifying the number of shares constituting that series and the distinctive designation and stated value of that series;
         
(H)
specifying the limitations and restrictions, if any, to be effective while any shares of such series are outstanding upon the payment of dividends or the making of other distributions on, and upon the purchase, redemption or other acquisition by the Corporation of any other class or classes of stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the shares of such series either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up;
           
(I)
specifying the conditions or restrictions, if any, upon the creation of indebtedness of the Corporation or upon the issuance of any additional stock (including additional shares of such series or of any other series or of any other class) ranking on a parity with or prior to the shares of such series as to dividends or distributions of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up; and
 
10
 
           
(J)
providing for any other power, preference and relative, participating, optional or other rights or terms, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, as shall not be inconsistent with applicable law, this paragraph (d)(J) or any resolution of the Board of Directors pursuant hereto.
All shares of any one series of Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects with the other shares of such series, except that shares of any one series of Preferred Stock issued at different times may differ as to the dates from which dividends thereon shall be cumulative. The Board of Directors may change the powers, designation, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations and restrictions of, and number of shares in, any series of Preferred Stock as to which no shares are issued and outstanding.
          
(ii)
Dividends
. Dividends on outstanding shares of Preferred Stock shall be paid or declared and set apart for payment before any dividends shall be paid or declared and set apart for payment on the Common Stock with respect to the same dividend period.
        
(iii)
Liquidation Rights
. If upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the assets available for distribution to holders of shares of Preferred Stock of all series shall be insufficient to pay such holders the full preferential amount to which they are entitled, then such assets shall be distributed in accordance with the respective priorities and preferential amounts (including unpaid cumulative dividends, if any, and interest thereon, if any) payable with respect thereto, and among shares of any series of Preferred Stock, ratably among the shares of such series.
                       
FIFTH
:
(a)
Classification of Directors
. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of a Board of Directors initially consisting of three directors, the exact number of directors to be not less than three nor more than
fifteen as determined from time to time by resolution adopted by affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors. The directors shall be divided into three classes, designated Class I, Class II and Class III. Each class shall consist, as nearly as may be possible, of one-third of the total number of directors constituting the entire Board of Directors. Class I directors shall be elected initially for a one-year term, Class II directors initially for a two-year term and Class III directors initially for a three-year term. At each succeeding annual meeting of stockholders beginning in 2006, successors to the class of directors whose term expires at that annual meeting shall be elected for a three-year term. If the number of directors is changed, any increase or decrease shall be apportioned among the classes so as to maintain the number of directors in each class as nearly equal as possible, and any additional director of any class elected to fill a vacancy resulting from an increase in such class shall hold office for a term that shall coincide with the remaining term of that class, but in no case will a decrease in the number of directors shorten the term of any incumbent director. A director shall hold office until the annual meeting of the year in which his term expires and until his successor shall be elected and shall qualify, subject, however, to prior death, resignation or removal from office. Any vacancy on the Board of Directors may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director or by stockholders if such vacancy was caused by the action of
 
11
 
stockholders (in which event such vacancy may not be filled by the directors or a majority thereof).
Any director elected to fill a vacancy not resulting from an increase in the number of directors shall have the same remaining term as that of his predecessor.
          
(b)
Vacancies in the Board
. Except as expressly provided in a Certificate of Designation with respect to any Preferred Stock, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of directors and any vacancies on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal or other cause shall be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in office, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director, or by stockholders if such vacancy was caused by the removal of a director by the action of stockholders (in which event such vacancy may not be filled by the directors or a majority thereof). Any director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence shall hold office for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the new directorship was created or the vacancy occurred and until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
          
(c)
Removal of Directors
. Subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of Preferred Stock to elect additional directors under specified circumstances, any director may be removed from office only for cause upon the affirmative vote of holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting as a single class. A director may not be removed by the stockholders at a meeting unless the notice of the meeting states that the purpose, or one of the purposes, of the meeting is removal of the director.
          
(d)
Amendment to this Article FIFTH
. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to amend, repeal or adopt any provision inconsistent with this Article FIFTH.
                       
SIXTH
:
(a)
(1) Except as otherwise provided by law or this Certificate of Incorporation, and subject to any rights of holders of Preferred Stock, the provisions of this Certificate of Incorporation shall not be modified, revised, altered or amended, repealed or rescinded in whole or in part, without the approval of the holders of at least a majority of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class; provided, however, that with respect to any proposed amendment of this Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation which would alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of the shares of Common Stock so as to affect them adversely, the approval of a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by the holders of the shares affected by the proposed amendment, voting separately as a class, shall be obtained in addition to the approval of the holders of at least a majority (or such higher percentage as required by law or this Certificate of Incorporation) of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class as hereinbefore provided.
 
12
 
(2) Every reference in this Certificate of Incorporation to a majority or other proportion of shares, or a majority or other proportion of the votes of shares, of Voting Stock or Common Stock shall refer to such majority or other proportion of the votes to which such shares of Voting Stock or Common Stock are entitled.
          
(b)
The Board of Directors is expressly empowered to adopt, amend or repeal the By-laws of the Corporation.  Any adoption, amendment or repeal of the By-laws of the Corporation by the Board of Directors shall require the approval of a majority of the entire Board of Directors.  The stockholders shall also have power to adopt, amend or repeal the By-laws of the Corporation; provided, however, that, in addition to any vote of the holders of any class or series of stock of the Corporation required by law or by this Certificate of Incorporation, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of all of the then-outstanding shares of the capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required to adopt, amend or repeal any provision of the By-laws of the Corporation.
          
(c)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the voting power of the then outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to amend, repeal or adopt any provision inconsistent with this Article SIXTH.
                
SEVENTH
:
(a)
Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such stockholders.
          
(b)
Except as otherwise required by law, a special meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer or by the Board pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the then authorized number of directors. Except as expressly provided in the immediately preceding sentence, any power of stockholders to call a special meeting is specifically denied. Any special meeting of the stockholders shall be held on such date, at such time and at such place within or without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors or the officer calling the meeting may designate. At a special meeting of the stockholders, no business shall be transacted and no corporate action shall be taken other than that stated in the notice of the meeting.
         
(c)
No business other than that stated in the notice shall be transacted at any special meeting of stockholders.
         
(d)
Advance notice of the proposal of business by stockholders shall be given in the manner provided in the By-laws of the Corporation, as amended and in effect from time to time.
         
(e)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the voting power of the then
 
13
 
outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to amend, repeal or adopt any provision inconsistent with this Article Seventh.
        
EIGHTH
:
The Corporation elects not to be governed by Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law.
           
NINTH:
Unless and except to the extent that the By-laws of the Corporation shall so require, the election of directors of the Corporation need not be by written ballot.
            
TENTH
:
The Corporation reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of Incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, provided that such action is approved in the manner, and otherwise complies with the requirements, set forth in this Certificate of Incorporation, and all rights conferred upon stockholders herein are granted subject to this reservation.
  
ELEVENTH
:
A director of the Corporation shall not be personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability: (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders; (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law; (iii) under Section 174 of the GCL; or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. If the GCL is amended to authorize corporate action further eliminating or limiting the personal liability of directors, then the liability of a director of the Corporation shall be eliminated or limited to the fullest extent permitted by the GCL, as so amended. Any repeal or modification of this provision shall be prospective only and shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the Corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification.
    
TWELFTH
:
The Corporation, to the fullest extent permitted by Section 145 of the GCL, as the same may be amended and supplemented, may indemnify any and all persons whom it shall have power to indemnify under said section from and against any and all of the expenses, liabilities or other matters referred to in or covered by said section, and the indemnification provided for herein shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those indemnified may be entitled under any by-law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in his official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, and shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person."
            
3.
This Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation has been duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation and consented to in writing and authorized by the holders of all of the issued and outstanding stock entitled to vote thereon.
 
14
 
            
4.
This Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation was duly adopted in accordance with the applicable provisions of Sections 228, 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
 
15
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, GameStop Corp. has caused this Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be executed by an authorized officer of GameStop Corp. as of the 7th day of February, 2007.
 
 
 
16
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
GameStop Class B Stockholders Approve Share Conversion
 
Grapevine, TX (February 7, 2007)  GameStop Corp. (NYSE: GME; GME.B), the world's largest video game and entertainment software retailer, announced today that at a special stockholders meeting, its Class B stockholders approved the proposal to convert each share of Class B common stock into Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis. After the stock market closes today, the Class B shares (GME.B) will no longer trade on the New York Stock Exchange.
 
About GameStop Corp.
Headquartered in Grapevine, TX, GameStop Corp. is the world's largest video game and entertainment software retailer. The company operates over 4,600 retail stores across the United States and in fourteen countries worldwide. The company also owns two e-commerce sites, GameStop.com and EBgames.com, and Game Informer(R) magazine, a leading multi-platform video game publication. GameStop Corp. sells new and used video game software, hardware and accessories for next generation video game systems from Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft. In addition, the company sells PC entertainment software, related accessories and other merchandise.
 
 
 


