FILE:GME/GME-8K-20070426162646.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 25, 2007, GameStop Corp. (the "Company") entered into the First Amendment (the "Amendment") to the Credit Agreement, dated as of October 11, 2005, by and among the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company, Bank of America, N.A. and the other lending institutions listed therein, Bank of America, N.A. and Citicorp North America, Inc., as Issuing Banks, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent, Citicorp North America, Inc., as Syndication Agent, and Merrill Lynch Capital, a division of Merrill Lynch Business Financial Services Inc., as Documentation Agent (the "Agreement"). The Amendment amends the Agreement to extend the maturity date to April 25, 2012. The Amendment also (i) reduces the interest rate payable for for LIBO Loans to a range of 100 to 150 basis points over LIBOR from the existing range of 125 to 175 basis points over LIBOR, in each case based on the Company's leverage ratio, (ii) reduces the unused commitment fee to 25 basis points from a range of 37.5 to 50 basis points and (iii) modifies or deletes certain other covenants.
 
The foregoing description of the Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
FIRST AMENDMENT TO
CREDIT AGREEMENT
This First Amendment to Credit Agreement (the "
First Amendment
") is made as of the 25th day of April, 2007, by and among
GAMESTOP CORP., a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware having a place of business at 625 Westport Parkway, Grapevine, Texas 76051, as Lead Borrower for the Borrowers listed on
Schedule I
annexed hereto;
the BORROWERS party hereto;
the LENDERS party hereto;
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., a national banking association having a place of business at 100 Federal Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02110, and CITICORP NORTH AMERICA, INC., a Delaware corporation having a place of business at 388 Greenwich Street, 20th Floor, New York, New York 10013, as Issuing Banks; and
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., a national banking association, having a place of business at 100 Federal Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02110, as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent for the Secured Parties; and
CITICORP NORTH AMERICA, INC., a Delaware corporation having a place of business at 388 Greenwich Street, 20th Floor, New York, New York 10013, as Syndication Agent; and
MERRILL LYNCH CAPITAL, A DIVISION OF MERRILL LYNCH BUSINESS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC., having a place of business at 222 North LaSalle Street, 16th Floor, Chicago, Illinois 60601, as Documentation Agent;
in consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained and benefits to be derived herefrom.
WITNESSETH
WHEREAS, the parties hereto have entered into a Credit Agreement dated as of October 11, 2005 (as amended, restated, supplemented and otherwise modified from time to time, the "
Credit Agreement
");
WHEREAS, certain of the Borrowers have merged into others of the Borrowers or have been dissolved; and
WHEREAS, the parties hereto have agreed to amend certain provisions of the Credit Agreement as set forth herein.
 
 
 
 
 
NOW THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows:
"
Applicable Margin
" means, commencing as of the date which is the First Amendment Effective Date, the rates for Prime Rate Loans and LIBO Loans set forth below:
 
 
The Applicable Margin shall be adjusted quarterly, commencing with the fiscal quarter ending May 5, 2007, based on the financial statements and compliance certificate required to be delivered pursuant to Sections 5.1(b) and 5.1(c) below. Any interest rate change shall be effective two (2) Business Days after the date of the Administrative Agent's receipt of the financial statements and compliance certificate required to be delivered pursuant to Sections 5.1(b) and 5.1(c) below. Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, at the option of the Administrative Agent or at the direction of the Required Lenders, interest shall be determined in the manner set forth in Section 2.10.
 
 
 
 
 
"
EB Borrower Group
" means, individually and collectively, Electronics Boutique Holdings Corp., EB Catalog Company, Inc., ELBO Inc., and EB International Holdings, Inc.
"
GameStop Borrower Group
" means, individually and collectively, GameStop Corp., GameStop Holdings Corp., GameStop, Inc., Sunrise Publications, Inc., Marketing Control Services, Inc., GameStop Brands, Inc., GameStop of Texas (GP), LLC, GameStop (LP), LLC and GameStop Texas LP.
"
Maturity Date
" means April 25, 2012.
"
Subsidiary Borrowers
" means, individually and collectively, GameStop Holdings Corp., GameStop, Inc., Sunrise Publications, Inc., Marketing Control Services, Inc., GameStop Brands, Inc., GameStop of Texas (GP), LLC, GameStop (LP), LLC, GameStop Texas LP, Electronics Boutique Holdings Corp., EB Catalog Company, Inc., ELBO Inc., EB International Holdings, Inc., and any other Subsidiary which becomes a Borrower.
 
 
 
 
 
assets or properties of, any Person, the entering into any exchange of securities with any Person, or the entering into any transaction, merger or consolidation of any Person, or any acquisition of any retail store locations of any Person, in each case, that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States of America or any state thereof or the District of Columbia, in each case which satisfies each of the following conditions:
2.12.
Unused Commitment Fee.
The Borrowers shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders, a commitment fee (the "
Commitment Fee
") computed at a rate per annum of 0.25% (on the basis of actual days elapsed in a year of 360 days) of the average daily balance of the Unused Commitment for each day commencing on and including the First Amendment Effective Date and ending on but excluding the Termination Date. Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, at the option of the Administrative Agent or at the direction of the Required Lenders, the Commitment Fee shall be determined in the manner set forth in Section 2.10. The Commitment Fee so accrued in any calendar quarter shall be payable on the last day of each calendar quarter, in arrears, commencing April 30, 2007, except that all Commitment Fees so accrued as of the Termination Date shall be payable on the Termination Date. The Administrative Agent shall pay the Commitment Fee to the Lenders based upon their Commitment Percentage.
 
 
 
 
 
          
(b)
Each Borrower will, and will cause each other member of the Borrower Affiliated Group to, from time to time upon the reasonable request and reasonable prior notice of the Collateral Agent or the Required Lenders through the Administrative Agent, permit any Agent or professionals (including consultants, accountants, lawyers and appraisers) retained by the Agents to conduct appraisals, commercial finance examinations and other evaluations, including, without limitation, of (i) the Borrowers' practices in the computation of the Borrowing Base and (ii) the assets included in the Borrowing Base and related financial information such as, but not limited to, sales, gross margins, payables, accruals and reserves, and pay the reasonable fees and expenses of the Agents or such professionals with respect to such evaluations and appraisals,
provided that
so long as the Credit Extensions at any time do not exceed $250,000,000, the Borrowers shall be responsible only for the costs and expenses of one such appraisal and one commercial finance examination in any twelve month period following the Closing Date, and if the Credit Extensions at any time exceed $250,000,000 during any such twelve month period, then the Borrowers shall be responsible only for the costs and expenses of two such appraisals and two commercial finance examinations in any twelve month period following the Closing Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing limitations on the Borrowers' obligation to pay the expenses for appraisals and commercial finance examinations prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default, the Administrative Agent may, (i) in its sole discretion, elect not to conduct any such appraisals or commercial finance examinations in any twelve month period if the Credit Extensions do not exceed $100,000,000 at any time during such twelve month period, (ii) undertake such additional appraisals and commercials finance examinations prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default as it, in its Permitted Discretion, deems necessary, at the expense of the Lenders, and (iii) if an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, undertake such additional appraisals and commercial finance examinations at the Borrowers' expense as it deems appropriate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
or income of the Borrowers and their Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, since the date of the most recent financial information delivered to the Administrative Agent.
 
 
 
 
 
negotiations hereon. Any determination that any provision of this First Amendment or any application hereof is invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect and in any instance shall not affect the validity, legality, or enforceability of such provision in any other instance, or the validity, legality or enforceability of any other provisions of this First Amendment.
[signature pages follow]
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Amendment to be executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule I
Borrowers
GAMESTOP CORP.
GAMESTOP HOLDINGS CORP.
GAMESTOP, INC.
SUNRISE PUBLICATIONS, INC.
MARKETING CONTROL SERVICES, INC.
GAMESTOP BRANDS, INC.
GAMESTOP OF TEXAS (GP), LLC
GAMESTOP (LP), LLC
GAMESTOP TEXAS LP
ELECTRONICS BOUTIQUE HOLDINGS CORP.
EB CATALOG COMPANY, INC.
ELBO INC.
EB INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS, INC.
 
 
 
 
 
Schedule 3.13
Subsidiaries
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


