FILE:GME/GME-8K-20080207170324.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01     Other Events.
On February 7, 2008, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had authorized an additional $130,000,000 for the buyback of the Companys Senior Notes. The timing and amount of the repurchases will be determined by the Company's management based on their evaluation of market conditions and other factors. In addition, the repurchases may be suspended or discontinued at any time. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)       Exhibits
99.1                Press Release issued by GameStop Corp., dated February 7, 2008.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
GAMESTOP CORP.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
GameStop Announces Bond Buyback Program
GRAPEVINE, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--GameStop Corp. (NYSE: GME), the worlds largest video game and entertainment software retailer, today announced that its Board of Directors authorized the buyback of up to $130 million of the Companys Senior Notes.
We are pleased that the Board has authorized this program as our debt represents a very attractive investment opportunity, indicated R. Richard Fontaine, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Our strong cash flow gives GameStop the ability to paydown debt even as we continue to aggressively expand our business worldwide.
Under the program, GameStop may purchase debt from time to time in compliance with SEC regulations and other legal requirements, and subject to market conditions and other factors. The repurchase program does not hold any specific limitations and may be suspended or terminated at any time.
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any notes or any other securities, nor will there be any sale of the notes or any other security in a jurisdiction in which such an offer or sale would be unlawful.
About GameStop Corp.
Headquartered in Grapevine, TX, GameStop Corp. is the worlds largest video game and entertainment software retailer. The company operates over 5,000 retail stores across the United States and in fifteen international countries. The company also operates two e-commerce sites, GameStop.com and EBgames.com, and publishes Game Informer magazine, a leading multi-platform video game publication. GameStop Corp. sells new and used video game software, hardware and accessories for video game systems from Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft. In addition, the company sells PC entertainment software, related accessories and other merchandise. General information on GameStop Corp. can be obtained at the companys corporate website: http://www.gamestop.com/corporate.
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, the outlook for fiscal 2008 and beyond, future financial and operating results, projected store openings, the company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of GameStop's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the inability to obtain sufficient quantities of product to meet consumer demand, including Nintendos Wii; the timing of release of video game titles for next generation consoles; the risks associated with expanded international operations; and economic and other events that could reduce or impact consumer demand. Additional factors that could cause GameStops results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in GameStops Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2007 filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's Internet site at http://www.sec.gov
.
CONTACT: Chris Olivera Divisional Vice President, Corporate Communications GameStop Corp. (817) 424-2130 or Matt Hodges Director, Investor Relations GameStop Corp. (817) 424-2130
Media Contact:
Investor Contact:


