FILE:GME/GME-8K-20081001181841.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
On September 30, 2008, EB International Holdings, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of GameStop Corp. (the "Company"), entered into a Sale and Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") with L Capital, LV Capital, Europ@Web and others to acquire substantially all of the outstanding capital stock of SFMI Micromania ("Micromania"), a French simplified joint stock company (
societ par actions simplifiee
), for approximately US$700 million (EUR 480 million), including the assumption and repayment of debt, to be paid in cash at closing. Micromania is a leading retailer of video and computer games in France with 332 locations.
 
The Purchase Agreement contains customary representations, warranties, covenants and indemnities, including a covenant by Micromania to operate the business in the ordinary course until closing. The representations and warranties in the Purchase Agreement were made solely for the purposes of the agreement between the parties, and are subject to certain qualifications and limitations agreed to by each of them in connection with negotiating the terms of the Purchase Agreement. Accordingly, investors should not rely on the representations and warranties contained in the Purchase Agreement as characterizations of the actual state of facts as of the date of the Purchase Agreement or any subsequent time.
 
The transaction is subject to clearance by European antitrust authorities, and is expected to close in November 2008. The Company intends to fund the acquisition through cash on hand, a draw on its revolving credit facility and a $150 million committed term loan from Bank of America.
 
The above summary of the Purchase Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Purchase Agreement, a copy of which is included as Exhibit 2.1 of this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
2
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
 
September 30, 2008
 
BETWEEN
 
L CAPITAL
LV CAPITAL
EUROP@WEB
HERBE
GEYSER INVESTMENTS SA, SPF
ARNAUD FAYET
OLIVIER GRANDCLAUDE
BRUNO DURIEZ
LAURENT BOUCHARD
JEAN MAINCENT
JOEL SANA
THE GOVERNOR AND COMPANY OF THE BANK OF IRELAND
FCPR MEZZANIS 2
ADAGIO CLO I B.V.
ADAGIO II CLO PLC.
ADAGIO III CLO PLC.
ORYX EUROPEAN CLO B.V.
 
as Sellers
 
AND
 
NICOLAS BERTRAND
MATTHIAS BOUDIER
 
AND
 
EB INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS, INC.
 
as Purchaser
 
 
SALE AND PURCHASE AGREEMENT
 
SALE AND PURCHASE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE UNDERSIGNED
:
A Fonds Commun de Placements  Risques
Represented by its manager L Capital Management,
socit par actions simplifie
with a share capital of 2,844,500 euros, having its registered office at 22, avenue Montaigne, 75382 Paris Cedex 08, registered under number 433 485 596 RCS Paris, itself represented by Mr. Philippe Franchet, duly empowered for the purposes hereof (
"L Capital"
),
A French
socit anonyme,
with a share capital of 228,750,000 euros, having its registered office at 22, avenue Montaigne, 75382 Paris Cedex 08, registered under number 400 150 371 RCS Paris, represented by Mr. Philippe Franchet, duly empowered for the purposes hereof ("
LV
Capital"),
A French
socit anonyme,
with a share capital of 73,212,294 euros, having its registered office at 11, rue Franois 1 er, 75008 Paris, registered under number 393 439 948 RCS Paris, represented by Mr. Philippe Franchet, duly empowered for the purposes hereof (
"Europ@web"
),
A French
socit civile,
with a share capital of 5,000 euros, having its registered office at 42, rue Edouard Nortier, 92200 Neuilly-sur-Seine, registered under number 484 824 818 RCS Nanterre, represented by Mr. Geoffroy Roux de Bzieux, duly empowered for the purposes hereof (
"Herb"
),
A company incorporated under the laws of Luxembourg, having its registered office at 17, rue des Jardiniers L-1026 Luxembourg, registered under number B 111603, represented by Mr. Pierre Cuilleret, duly empowered for the purposes hereof ("
Geyser
"),
A French citizen, born on January 13, 1942, residing at 36, rue Michel-Ange, 75016 Paris,
A French citizen, born on September 30, 1970, residing at 19, avenue Jehan de Brie, 77120 Coulommiers, represented by Mr. Pierre Cuilleret, duly empowered for the purposes hereof,
A French citizen, born on February 19, 1955, residing at 50, chemin du Val Fleuri, 06800 Cagnes-sur-Mer, represented by Mr. Pierre Cuilleret, duly empowered for the purposes hereof,
A French citizen, born on January 4, 1968, residing at 14, rue Delaunay, 78000 Versailles, represented by Mr. Pierre Cuilleret, duly empowered for the purposes hereof,
A French citizen, born on December 16, 1960, residing at 37, chemin des mimosas  le Camp Romain, 06530 Peymeinade, represented by Mr. Pierre Cuilleret, duly empowered for the purposes hereof,
- 1 -
 
A French citizen, born on January 12, 1961, residing at route de Roquestron  la collebelle, 06860 Gillette, represented by Mr. Pierre Cuilleret, duly empowered for the purposes hereof,
A company incorporated under the laws of Ireland, having its registered office at Lower Baggot Street, Dublin 2 Ireland, represented by Mr. Philippe Bassouls and Mr. Stephane Miliotis, duly empowered for the purposes hereof,
A Fonds Commun de Placements  Risques
Represented by its manager Crdit Agricole Private Equity,
socit anonyme  conseil de surveillance et directoire
with a share capital of 8,000,000 euros, having its registered office at 100, boulevard du Montparnasse, 75014 Paris, registered under number 428 711 196 RCS Paris, itself represented by Mr. Philippe Franchet, duly empowered for the purposes hereof,
A private company with limited liability incorporated under the laws of The Netherlands with registration number 34192736, having its registered office at Parnassustoren, Locatellikade 1, 1076 AZ Amsterdam, The Netherlands, duly represented for the purposes hereof,
A public company with limited liability incorporated under the laws of Ireland with registration number 404053, having its registered office at 19-20 City Quay, Dublin 2, Ireland, duly represented for the purposes hereof,
A public company with limited liability incorporated under the laws of Ireland with registration number 417768, having its registered office at 19-20 City Quay, Dublin 2, Ireland, duly represented for the purposes hereof,
A private company with limited liability incorporated under the laws of The Netherlands with registration number 34210831, having its registered office at Parnassustoren, Locatellikade 1, 1076 AZ Amsterdam, The Netherlands, duly represented for the purposes hereof,
The parties listed in paragraphs 1 to 17 (inclusive) above being hereafter collectively referred to as the
"Sellers",
each acting individually and not jointly nor severally
(individuellement et sans solidarit),
the parties listed in paragraphs 1 to 3 inclusive and 12 to 17 (inclusive) above being hereafter collectively referred to as the
"Financial Sellers"
and the parties listed in paragraphs 4 to 11 (inclusive) above being hereafter collectively referred to as the
"Managers",
each acting individually and not jointly nor severally,
A French citizen, born on November 20, 1965, residing at Domaine de Peyrebelle, 54, chemin de Peyrebelle, 06560 Valbonne, solely for the purpose of accepting Articles 1, 8, 9, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 and Schedule 3.3.1, a Manager for the purposes of Clauses 11.3, 11.4, 19.1, represented by Mr. Pierre Cuilleret, duly empowered for the purposes hereof,
 
- 2 -
A French citizen, born on April 10, 1975, residing at 434, chemin Joseph Durbec, 06410 Biot, solely for the purpose of accepting Articles 1, 8, 9, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21 and Schedule 3.3.1, a Manager for the purposes of Clauses 11.3, 11.4, 19.1, represented by Mr. Pierre Cuilleret, duly empowered for the purposes hereof and,
AND
A company incorporated in Delaware, United States of America, having its principal offices at 625 Westport Parkway, Grapevine, Texas 76051, U.S.A., represented by Mr. R. Richard Fontaine, duly empowered for the purposes hereof (the "Purchaser").
RECITALS
:
(i)        11,186,948 ordinary shares (the
"Shares")
(such Shares not including any Free Share nor any Finck Share (as these expressions are defined below)),
(ii)       800,000 warrants initially attached to 100,000 shares of the Company issued on October 28, 2005 (the
"Warrants"),
each Warrant giving access to one share of the Company; and
(iii)      250,000 warrants initially attached to mezzanine bonds issued by the Company on August 24; 2005 (the
"Mezzanine Warrants"),
each Warrant giving access to one share of the Company.
A list of the securities owned by each Seller is set out in
Schedule C  Part A
.
In addition, the Seller has given to the Purchaser the opportunity to make site visits, to attend to meetings with and ask questions to respective officers and management employees of the Company, and to acquire additional information about the business conducted by the Company in order to increase the Purchaser's knowledge of the Group.
 
- 3 -
IT IS HEREBY AGREED AS
FOLLOWS
:
In this Agreement:
 
 
- 4 -
 
 
- 5 -
 
 
 
- 6 -
 
 
- 7 -
 
 
- 8 -
 
 
- 9 -
 
In this Agreement, unless the context requires otherwise:
i)         definitions used in this Agreement shall apply equally to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined.
 
 
- 10 -
a)          the words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation"; and
b)          the words "hereof', "herein" and similar words shall be construed as references to this Agreement as a whole and not just to the particular Section or subsection in which the reference appears.
iii) except when used with the word
"either"
, the word
"or"
shall have a disjunctive and not alternative meaning (i.e., where two items or qualities are separated by the word
"or"
, the existence of one item or quality shall not be deemed to be exclusive of the existence of the other and the word
"or"
shall be deemed to include the word
"and"
).
 
Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, the Sellers undertake to sell to the Purchaser the Securities and the Purchaser undertakes to purchase, with effect on the Completion Date, from the Sellers the Securities, free and clear of all Encumbrances, together with all rights and obligations attached thereto, each of the Sellers respectively selling to the Purchaser and the Purchaser respectively buying from each of the Sellers, a number of Sold Shares, Warrants and Mezzanine Warrants in the proportions specified in the notice referred to in
Schedule C  Part B
.
The Parties expressly agree that:
 
- 11 -
In the event the Finck Shares were to he sold pursuant to the preceding sentence, the Parties hereby agree to enter into an amendment agreement to this Agreement in order to include the Finck Shares into the Securities. The Purchaser hereby expressly accepts to waive any right of action against L Capital in respect of the transfer of the Finck Shares (as the case may be) and the litigation between Nicolas Finck and the Company, except in the event where a court shall determine that the Purchaser must pay Finck an aggregate amount in excess of the aggregate amount Finck would have been paid if the Finck Shares were purchased at a per share price equal to the Price per Share, in which case the Sellers shall promptly pay or reimburse to the Purchaser such excess amount; and
 
[PS x number of Fully Diluted Shares]  [PS x number of Fink Shares]  [PS x number of Allocated Free Shares]  [PS x number of Non Sold Shares]  [10 x number of Warrants]  [10 x number of Mezzanine Warrants]
Where "
PS
" means the price per Company's share on the basis of the number of Fully Diluted Shares, PS being calculated as follows:
PS = Diluted Equity Value / number of Fully Diluted Shares.
 
- 12 -
(i)        the aggregate amount of all the First Demand Bank Guarantees shall be limited to an amount equal to:
20,000,000 euros x [Total Purchase Price - (PS x number of Allocated Free Shares)  (PS x 11,800)]/Total Purchase Price (the
"Total First Demand Guarantee Amount"),
(ii)       each Guaranteed Party shall deposit its portion of the Total First Demand Guarantee Amount in an interest-bearing blocked and/or pledged account or P.E.A. account opened in the books of the issuing bank.
The Total Guarantee Amount shall be apportioned among the Guaranteed Parties pro rata based upon the Net Proceeds pursuant to the amounts set forth in
Schedule 3.3.1
. Each First Demand Bank Guarantee shall expire 270 calendar days following the Completion Date (inclusive), except that with respect to the aggregate amount of unpaid Claims as of the last Business Day before such expiration date, the expiration date of each First Demand Guarantee shall be postponed until ten (10) Business Days following the date when payment of the corresponding Net Loss is to occur pursuant to Clause 9.9 below. All fees and costs of the issuing bank(s) relating to any First Demand Bank Guarantee shall be borne by the Purchaser and shall be paid by the Purchaser promptly upon written demand of the Financial Sellers' Representative accompanied by the invoice of such bank(s).
 
- 13 -
 
- 14 -
and the Agreement shall be terminated pursuant to Clause 12.1.4 below.
 
- 15 -
 
- 16 -
For the purposes of granting any consents which may be requested by Mr. Pierre Cuilleret (with a copy to the Financial Sellers' Representative) pursuant to this Article 5, the Purchaser hereby designates Mr. Richard Fontaine and Mr. Daniel DeMatteo with immediate effect and represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the Sellers that Mr. Richard Fontaine or Mr. Daniel DeMatteo shall have full capacity and right to give any such consents on behalf of the Purchaser during the term of this Agreement. Within five (5) Business Days (or three (3) Business Days for requests relating to paragraphs (g), (j) and (m) above) of receipt of any written (by email or telecopy) request for consent by Mr. Pierre Cuilleret, the Purchaser shall have the right to notify in writing (by email or telecopy) Mr. Pierre Cuilleret (with a copy to the Financial Sellers' Representative) that it objects to the proposed action (which notice of objection shall indicate its reasons for so objecting). If the Purchaser has not notified Mr. Pierre Cuilleret of its objection to a proposed action within such period of five (5) Business Days (or three (3) Business Days for requests relating to paragraphs (g), (j) and (m) above), the Purchaser shall be deemed to have consented to such proposed action.
Completion of the transfer of the Securities from each of the Sellers to the Purchaser
("Completion")
shall occur at the latest five (5) Business Days following satisfaction of the Condition Precedent, or at any such date as agreed between the Sellers and the Purchaser following satisfaction of the Condition Precedent (the
"Completion Date"),
provided that in the event the date falling five (5) Business Days after the satisfaction of the Condition Precedent is between December 20, 2008 (inclusive) and January 11, 2009, the Purchaser shall be entitled to request that the Completion Date be postponed to January 12, 2009.
Completion will take place in the premises of Ayache, Salama & Associs, 47, avenue Hoche, 75008 Paris, France or in any other place agreed by the Sellers and the Purchaser.
 
On the Completion Date and subject to the provisions of Article 4, the Sellers shall deliver to the Purchaser the following documents:
 
- 17 -
 
On the Completion Date, the Purchaser shall:
All matters at Completion shall be considered to take place simultaneously, and no delivery of any document will be deemed complete until all actions, transactions and deliveries of documents required by this Agreement are fully completed, it being specified however that the closing deliveries specified in Clause 6.2.1 are for the benefit of the Purchaser only, and that the closing deliveries and actions specified in Clause 6.2.2 are for the benefit of the Sellers only, and may therefore be waived in whole or in part by their respective beneficiary.
If at any time after the Completion, any further action is necessary in order to carry out the transactions contemplated in this Agreement, each of the Parties will take such further action (including the execution and delivery of such further instruments and documents) as any other Party may reasonably request, all at the sole cost and expense of such requesting Party.
 
- 18 -
For four (4) years following the Completion Date, upon reasonable notice to that effect, the Purchaser agrees to afford, and to cause the Group Companies to afford, to each of the Sellers, their counsels or representatives, full access (including the right to make copies) after the Completion Date, during normal business hours, to the pre-Completion Date records, staff and properties of any of the Group Companies, as may be necessary for the Sellers only for purposes of preparing their tax returns and financial statements, conducting any tax or social security audit or investigation, or handling any claim, dispute or litigation, at no costs to the Sellers (other than for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses), all in a manner that shall to the maximum extent practicable minimize disruptions to the business and operations of the Group Companies.
The Purchaser agrees to hold all the records of the Group Companies existing on the Completion Date and not to destroy or dispose of any thereof until a period of five (5) years from the Completion Date.
Each of the Sellers undertakes that as from the Completion Date and for a period of thirty-six (36) months thereafter neither such Seller nor any member of its group will solicit, interfere with or endeavour to entice away from any of the Group Companies or offer to employ or engage under a contract for services any person who is, at the date hereof or at any other time hereafter through the thirty-six (36) month anniversary of the Completion Date, an executive
(cadre)
of or consultant to any of the Group Companies, except as a result of any general employment offers published through a public or general medium such as newspapers.
The liability of each Seller under this Article 8 shall in no event exceed the limits set forth under Article 9 (including, in particular, Clause 9.5) and Clause 14.1. Such indemnification shall be the exclusive remedy of the Purchaser in respect of any breach of Warranty made by the Sellers in Article 8.
Save as disclosed in the Schedules hereto, each Seller hereby represents and warrants the following to the Purchaser, it being specified that, unless provided otherwise, such Warranties are made on the date hereof and as at the Completion Date. The numbers and headings of the Schedules shall be for convenience only and shall not limit the effect of any of the disclosures contained therein, all disclosures contained in any of the Schedules, being made in respect of all the Warranties made by the Sellers in Article 8.
 
- 19 -
Neither the entering into of this Agreement, nor the performance by the Sellers of their obligations hereunder, nor the consummation of the transactions provided for hereby does or will:
 
- 20 -
Since March 31, 2008, (i) the business of the Group has been conducted in the ordinary course based on the principle of maintaining its business as a going concern except as set forth in
Schedule 5.1(o)
, and (ii) the Group has not made any distribution, dividend, redemption or repurchase with respect to share capital or securities of any of the Group Companies, whether of cash or property, to any person or entity outside of the Group except upon the Completion Date as expressly contemplated by this Agreement.
The Group Companies are being operated in accordance with applicable laws in all material respects. Save as disclosed in
Schedule F
or in
Schedule 8.7
, none of the Group Companies are in default under any Material Contract. The transfer of the Sold Shares as contemplated by this Agreement will not require the consent, result in any default or increase the obligations of any of the Group Companies under any Material Contract, Real Estate Lease or Franchise and Distribution Agreement.
Save as disclosed in
Schedule 8.8
, the Group Companies have filed or caused to be filed on a timely basis and when due all Tax Returns that are or were required to be filed prior to the date hereof, which Tax Returns are true, correct and complete in all material respects. The Group Companies have paid or made provision for the payment of, all Taxes that have become due pursuant to those Tax Returns, or pursuant to any assessment received by the Group Companies and are not in default with payment of any Taxes due to any tax authority pursuant to those Tax Returns. All Taxes that the Group Companies are or were required by applicable statutes, rules or regulations to withhold or collect have been duly withheld or collected and, to the extent required, have been paid to the appropriate Governmental Authority pursuant to those Tax Returns.
Except as set forth on
Schedule 8.9
or on
Schedule F
, no Group Company owns any real property or has any binding contractual obligation to purchase real property.
Schedule 8.9
also sets forth all Leased Real Property and the related minimum guaranteed rental payable by the Group Companies with respect thereto. Except as set forth on
Schedule 8.9
or on
Schedule F
, each of the Real Property Leases and Franchise and Distribution Agreements is valid and in full force and effect and the Company is in possession of the entire premises demised or covered thereunder. Except as set forth on
Schedule 8.9
or on
Schedule F
, the Company is not in default under any of its rental obligations or the other terms of any Real Estate Lease or Franchise and Distribution Agreement in any material respect. Except as set forth in
Schedule 8.9
and to the Sellers' best knowledge, there is no Leased Real Property which a Third Party has any right to the possession, use, occupancy or enjoyment thereof (or a portion thereof) as of the date of this Agreement. The Leased Real Property includes all of the land, buildings, structures and other improvements of the stores and facilities operated by the Group Companies thereon. To the knowledge of the Sellers, the other party to any of the leases for the Group's headquarters in Sophia-Antipolis or the Group's distribution facilities in
 
- 21 -
Bonneuil-sur-Marne is not in default under the terms thereof in any material respect. None of the Group Companies has received in writing a notice of refusal to renew with respect to any Real Estate Lease or any real property covered by a Franchise and Distribution Agreement, except as set forth in
Schedule 8.9
.
To the knowledge of the Sellers, there is currently no governmental or other investigation, enquiry or disciplinary proceeding relating to any alleged breach of any Environmental Law or environmental issues in relation to the Group Companies or any of their properties which may lead to more than immaterial costs.
Except as set forth in
Schedule 8.11
or in
Schedule F
and as at the date of this Agreement, no Group Company is a party to any judicial or arbitral proceeding involving individually in excess of 100,000 euros, nor, to the knowledge of the Sellers, has any Group Company received any written notification threatening such proceeding.
The Group is the holder of all rights, title and interest in and to the Intellectual Property Rights set out in
Schedule 8.12
(as applicable and where applicable, within its registered trademark classification) free and clear of all Encumbrances (save as disclosed in
Schedule 8.12
or in
Schedule F
) and has the right to use all such Intellectual Property Rights. The Group will at the
Completion Date own or have the necessary rights to use all Intellectual Property Rights that are used in or are necessary for the conduct of its business, including the rights set out in
Schedule 8.12
. The Group has the legal right to use all software (including source code and associated documentation, and for the avoidance of doubt, applications) necessary for the conduct of its business.
Save as disclosed in
Schedule 8.13
or in
Schedule F
, there are no outstanding amounts payable to or receivable from, or advances by any Group Company to, and no Group Company is otherwise a creditor or debtor to, or party to or otherwise bound by any contract, agreement, arrangement, understanding, undertaking, commitment, obligation or promise, with any of the Sellers, any director, officer or Affiliate of any of the Sellers, or any member of their immediate families.
Schedule E
together with
Schedule 3.4.2
set forth the outstanding and unpaid amounts in principal of the Group's financial indebtedness existing as at the date hereof and owing to financial institutions or shareholders.
Other than Lazard, whose fees will be the responsibility of the Sellers, no person or entity will be entitled, by reason of any agreement with any of the Sellers or the Group Companies, to any commission, brokerage, finder's fee or similar compensation as a result of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
 
- 22 -
Except for the representations and warranties contained in this Clause 8.16, none of the Sellers nor any other person related to any of the Sellers, makes or shall be deemed to make any representation or warranty to the Purchaser, express or implied, on behalf of the Sellers, notwithstanding the delivery or disclosure to the Purchaser of any documentation or other information by the Sellers or any other person with respect to any one or more of the foregoing.
In computing the amount of a Net Loss, the following principles shall apply without any double counting:
 
- 23 -
expressly provided for in the Accounts in respect of the matter to which such Claim relates;
The Sellers shall not have to pay the Purchaser for any Claim:
 
- 24 -
 
The Sellers shall not be liable for any Claim unless it receives from the relevant Group Company written notice containing full details of the Claim including such Group Company's estimate of the amount of such Claim before the date corresponding to two hundred seventy (270) calendar days from the Completion Date (inclusive).
Without prejudice to the individual and not joint nor several responsibility
(responsabilit individuelle et sans solidarit)
of each of the Sellers for their Warranties set forth in this Agreement, the Purchaser shall not be entitled to bring or pursue a Claim for a breach of any Warranty set forth herein, if the Purchaser does not concurrently therewith or promptly thereafter bring and pursue with reasonable diligence a Claim against each of the other Sellers for a breach of such Warranty, provided however with respect to a breach of Clause 8.1, 8.2.1 and/or 8.4, the Purchaser shall not be required to pursue a Claim against any Seller who bears no liability for such Claim.
 
- 25 -
The Purchaser and the Sellers agree that all Claims made by the Purchaser hereunder be submitted, processed and settled in accordance with the procedure set forth in
Schedule 9.7
.
 
- 26 -
The Purchaser shall use its commercially reasonable endeavours and shall procure that the Group Companies shall use their commercially reasonable endeavours to mitigate any Net Loss which could give rise to a Claim.
The Purchaser hereby represents and warrants the following to the Sellers, it being specified that, unless provided otherwise, such representations and warranties are made on the date hereof and as at the Completion Date:
The Purchaser is a Delaware (United States of America) corporation duly organised or established, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its organisation, and has full power and authority to enter into the Agreement and any other documents to be entered into pursuant to the Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder.
The execution and performance by the Purchaser of this Agreement, and the consummation by the Purchaser of the transactions contemplated hereby, does not and will not:
Governmental Authority, which is applicable to the Purchaser or its properties or assets;
 
- 27 -
Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, no consent, approval or authorisation by any Third Party is required to be made or obtained by the Purchaser in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, or the performance of any of the transactions contemplated herein.
The Purchaser is not insolvent
(en tat de cessation des paiernents),
and is not subject to any moratorium, safety proceeding
(procdure de sauvegarde),
administrative reorganisation, judicial liquidation, bankruptcy, insolvency, winding-up or similar proceeding under any applicable legislation or regulation and there is no reason for the Purchaser to be subject to any such proceeding.
There is no investigation, action or procedure instituted, pending or, to the knowledge of the Purchaser, threatened, in each case against the Purchaser or any of its Affiliates, which, individually or in the aggregate, directly or indirectly, would reasonably be likely to have an adverse effect on the Purchaser's ability to effect in a timely manner the transactions contemplated herein, nor is there any outstanding judgment, decree, or injunction, in each case against the Purchaser or any of its Affiliates, or any order of any governmental entity applicable to the Purchaser or any of its Affiliates which has or would reasonably be likely to
 
- 28 -
have, individually or in the aggregate, an adverse effect on the Purchaser's ability to complete in a timely manner the transactions contemplated herein.
Any out-of-pocket costs and expenses borne by the Managers' Representative in connection with its mission shall be borne by the Managers pro rata to the Total Purchase Price to be received by each Manager.
 
- 29 -
 
- 30 -
 
- 31 -
All notices, requests, demands or other communications given or made under or in connection with the matters contemplated by this Agreement shall only be effective if made in writing and sent: (i) by registered letter with acknowledgement of receipt, (ii) by facsimile confirmed by registered letter with acknowledgement of receipt, (iii) by email confirmed by registered letter with acknowledgement of receipt, or (iv) by personal delivery with acknowledgement of receipt:
L Capital Management SAS
Office: 18, rue Franois 1 er, 75008 Paris, France
Fax: + 33/1 44 13 24 85
Email:
pfranchet@lvmh.fr
;
E.VELASCO@lvinh.fr
Attention: Mr. Philippe Franchet and/or Mr. Eduardo Velasco
Mr. Pierre Cuilleret
c/o SFMI Micromania
Personal and confidential
Address : SFMI Micromania, 2980, route des Crtes  Sophia Antipolis, 06560 Valbonne, France
Fax: + 33/4 92 94 36 03
Email:
pierre@cuilleret.com
 
GameStop
David W. Carlson
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer & Asst. Secretary
Fax: + 1/817 424 2820
Email:
davidcarlson@gamestop.com
Address: GameStop, 625 Westport Parkway, Grapevine, TX 76051, USA
with a copy to:
Daniel J. Kaufman
Senior Vice President and General Counsel
Fax: + 1/484 991 1944
Email:
dankaufman@gamestop.com
Address: GameStop, 600 Willowbrook Lane, Suite 622, West Chester, PA 19382, USA
and:
Jay M. Dorman
Fax: + 1/212 541 1418
Email:
jmdorman@bryancave.com
Address: Bryan Cave LLP, 1290 Avenue of the Americas, New York, NY 10104, USA
 
- 32 -
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with French law.
The Parties agree that any dispute relating to or arising from this Agreement shall be brought before the jurisdiction of the Commercial Courts of Paris
(Tribunal de Commerce de Paris).
 
Executed in Paris,
On September 30, 2008
In twenty (20) originals and three (3) originals of
Schedule F
, as follows:
- one original of
Schedule F
to be kept by L Capital on behalf of the Financial Sellers having the same interest pursuant to Article 1325 of the French
Code Civil;
-
one original of
Schedule F
to be kept by Mr. Pierre Cuilleret on behalf of the Managers having the same interest pursuant to Article 1325 of the French
Code Civil;
-
one original of
Schedule F
for the Purchaser;
 
 
 
 
- 33 -
 
 
- 34 -
 
 
- 35 -
 
 
- 36 -
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
GAMESTOP ACQUIRES MICROMANIA, FRANCE'S LEADING VIDEO GAME RETAILER
TRANSACTION INCLUDES 332 LOCATIONS THROUGHOUT FRANCE
INCREASES GAMESTOP'S EUROPEAN PRESENCE TO 1,077 STORES
Grapevine, Texas, October 1, 2008  GameStop (NYSE: GME), the world's largest video game retailer, today announced that it has reached a definitive agreement to acquire Micromania, France's leading video game retailer with 332 locations throughout the country, from private equity fund L Capital.
 
GameStop, which currently has no stores in France, will operate 5,889 locations worldwide in the United States, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and, with the Micromania acquisition, the European store count will top 1,077 stores located throughout France, Italy, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Spain and Portugal.
 
The transaction, for approximately US$700 million (480 million) in cash, including the assumption of debt, is subject to clearance by the European Commission, and is expected to close in November of 2008. Under the terms of the agreement, GameStop will purchase virtually all of the outstanding shares of the company. GameStop intends to fund the transaction through cash on hand, a draw on its existing revolving credit facility, and a $150 million committed term loan from Bank of America.
 
R. Richard Fontaine, GameStop's Executive Chairman, said "As we have accelerated our growth in Europe over the years, we have kept a close eye on the European retailers whose passion for the business is reflected in the quality of their stores and evident knowledge of their staff. Micromania has been that type of retailer.
 
"When the opportunity arose to purchase Micromania, and after meeting the executives who lead the company, we became convinced that expanding into Europe's second largest video game market with Micromania's management team and GameStop's diverse experience was a great combination for profitable growth."
 
Daniel A. DeMatteo, GameStop's Chief Executive Officer, indicated that, "The transaction is a reflection of our belief that the European video game market is growing and will be an important part of GameStop's worldwide growth.
 
"Historically, our most productive use of capital has, by far, been the addition of new stores whether opened organically or acquired. With the addition of Micromania, we have begun deployment of capital that we believe will help us achieve EPS growth of 25% or more in fiscal 2009, and set GameStop up for continued growth in the years to come. We expect this acquisition to be accretive to our fully diluted EPS in both the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009."
 
Pierre Cuilleret, who will remain Micromania's President Directeur Gnral, said, "Micromania is a terrific
brand. I am particularly pleased that the GameStop management team recognized the impassioned quality and importance of our sales advisors and senior managers. With GameStop as a partner, and with their history of seeking out new growth opportunities, I am very enthusiastic about our potential to expand
the brand that has been built for over 25 years in France."
Citi acted as financial advisor to GameStop, and Lazard Frere acted as financial advisors to Micromania's shareholders. Bryan Cave LLP served as legal advisor to GameStop and Ayache Salama Associates served as legal advisor to Micromania's shareholders.
 
About GameStop Corp.
Headquartered in Grapevine, TX, GameStop Corp. is the world's largest video game and entertainment software retailer. The company operates 5,557 retail stores in 16 countries worldwide. The company also operates two e-commerce sites, GameStop.com and EBgames.com, and publishes Game Informer(R) magazine, a leading multi-platform video game publication. GameStop Corp. sells new and used video game software, hardware and accessories for video game systems from Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft. In addition, the company sells PC entertainment software, related accessories and other merchandise.
 
General information on GameStop Corp. can be obtained at the company's corporate website:
http://www.gamestopcorp.com
.
 
About Micromania
Founded in 1983, Micromania is the leading video game retailer in France with 332 stores. Since the end of August 2005, when Pierre Cuilleret (founder of The Phone House) became President of Micromania, the company has strengthened its position as a leader, opening more than 130 stores in 3 years. Micromania team members share a successful, growth focused culture, founded on a passion for video games, offering personalized advice and customer service. With annual revenues on a current run-rate exceeding 500 million, Micromania continues to build on its strong brand reputation. With its Megacarte loyalty program, and with initiatives such as the launch of its Pink Megacarte, hosting of in-store discovery events for senior people, Micromania has contributed to opening the video games market to a wider audience.
 
About L Capital
L Capital is a private equity fund sponsored by the luxury group LVMH. It has about  600 million under management, and is focused on aspirational brands with high development potential and selective distribution. L Capital has 3 offices in Paris, Milan and Madrid and makes investments throughout Europe. Since 2001, L Capital has made 20 investments including Antichi Pelletieri, Gant, EMU, Stroili Oro, La Gardenia, Micromania, Forte Pharma, Imaginarium, Nutrition & Sant, Calligaris, Groupe Bertrand, Piazza Sempione, Princess Yachts, etc.
 
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements may include, but are not limited to, the proposed acquisition of Micromania, future financial and operating results, projected store openings, the company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of GameStop's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the failure to close the Micromania acquisition, as a result of the inability to satisfy the closing conditions or otherwise; the inability to integrate Micromania's management and operations into those of the Company on a timely and successful basis; the inability to obtain sufficient quantities of product to meet consumer demand, including Nintendo's Wii; the timing of release of video game titles for next generation consoles; the risks associated with expanded international operations; and economic and other events that could reduce or impact consumer demand. Additional factors that could cause GameStop's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in GameStop's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2008 filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's Internet site at
http://www.sec.gov/
or
http://investor.gamestop.com
.
 
 
 


