FILE:GME/GME-8K-20100819093944.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02         Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition, and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
      
      On August 19, 2010, GameStop Corp. issued a press release announcing its financial results for its second quarter ended July 31, 2010.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
      The information contained in this Current Report, including the exhibit, shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of GameStop Corp., whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as otherwise expressly set forth therein.
Item 9.01         Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)Exhibits
          
99.1                   Press Release issued by GameStop Corp., dated August 19, 2010.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
GAMESTOP CORP.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
GameStop Reports Second Quarter 2010 Results
Video Game Software Sales Increase 5.3%
National Roll-out of New Initiatives Underway
GRAPEVINE, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--August 19, 2010--GameStop Corp. (NYSE: GME), the worlds largest video game and entertainment software retailer, today reported sales and earnings for the second fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2010.
Financial Results
Total sales for the second quarter increased 3.4% to $1.80 billion, in comparison to $1.74 billion in the prior year quarter. Comparable store sales increased 0.9%, primarily attributable to sell through of new hardware systems and new video game titles. Strong market share gains contributed to a 5.3% increase in new video game software sales.
The top five selling games during the quarter were Rockstar Games , Nintendos , THQs by Blizzard Entertainment and EA Sports
Red Dead Redemption
Super Mario Galaxy 2
UFC Undisputed 2010, StarCraft II: Wings of Liberty
NCAA Football 11.
Net earnings for the second quarter increased 4.2% to $40.3 million, as compared to net earnings of $38.7 million in the prior year quarter. Diluted earnings per share increased 13.0% to $0.26, as compared to $0.23 in the prior year quarter.
J. Paul Raines, Chief Executive Officer, said, GameStops second quarter results demonstrate the resiliency of our business model as we achieved both top-line and earnings growth despite the ongoing volatility in the global economy. Our U.S. operations were strong relative to the industry with solid comparable store sales and continued new video game market share gains. Internationally, we continue to focus on the execution of GameStops buy-sell-trade model to improve operational efficiencies.
Dan DeMatteo, Executive Chairman, stated, Based on the outstanding initial results of our new customer loyalty program and selling downloadable content (DLC) in stores, we will accelerate and complete the national roll-out of both programs in the third quarter. Additionally, we purchased Kongregate, a leading social gaming destination, to advance our digital strategy. These investments are evaluated with a focus of increasing return on invested capital over a period of time. In addition, we are reviewing the use of excess cash to enhance shareholder returns.
The company also announced that during the second quarter, it completed its $300 million share repurchase program. GameStop repurchased and retired 2,520,400 shares of its common stock at an average cost of $20.93 per share, spending the remaining $52.8 million available.
Year-to-date, GameStop has opened 99 net new stores: 48 in the U.S., 35 in Europe, 6 in Canada and 10 in Australia/New Zealand.
Updated Guidance
Based on the success of the companys new PowerUp Rewards loyalty program and in-store DLC sales pilot, these two initiatives will be rolled out nationally during the third quarter. GameStop is adjusting its third quarter diluted earnings per share guidance to range from $0.35 to $0.38 to account for incremental expenses related to these programs as well as for the upfront expenses of the Kongregate acquisition and investments in e-commerce.
GameStop is maintaining its full year diluted earnings per share guidance range of $2.58 to $2.68, representing a 14% to 18% increase over fiscal 2009. The company projects that $0.03 per share of earnings will be realized in the fourth quarter from these new customer initiatives and the launch of Microsofts Kinect.
The company expects comparable store sales for the third quarter to range from +3.0% to +6.0% and full year comparable store sales are still expected to range from flat to +2.0%.
About GameStop
Headquartered in Grapevine, TX, GameStop Corp., a Fortune 500 and S&P 500 company, is the world's largest video game and entertainment software retailer. The company operates 6,549 retail stores in 17 countries worldwide. The company also operates e-commerce sites, including GameStop.com, and publishes Game Informer(R) magazine, a leading multi-platform video game publication. GameStop Corp. sells new and used video game software, hardware and accessories for video game systems from Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft. In addition, the company sells PC entertainment software, related accessories and other merchandise. General information on GameStop Corp. can be obtained at the company's corporate website:
http://www.gamestopcorp.com.
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements may include, but are not limited to, the outlook for fiscal 2010, future financial and operating results, projected store openings, the company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions, and other statements that are not historical facts. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of GameStop's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. GameStop undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the inability to obtain sufficient quantities of product to meet consumer demand, including console hardware; the timing of release of video game titles for next generation consoles; the risks associated with expanded international operations and the integration of acquisitions; the impact of increased competition and changing technology, including alternative methods of distribution, in the video game industry; and economic and other events that could reduce or impact consumer demand. Additional factors that could cause GameStop's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in GameStop's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2010 filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's Internet site at or
http://www.sec.gov
http://investor.gamestop.com.
Basic net income per share and diluted net income per share are calculated based on consolidated net income attributable to GameStop.
1
Basic net income per share and diluted net income per share are calculated based on consolidated net income attributable to GameStop.
1
CONTACT: Chris Olivera Vice President, Corporate Communications GameStop Corp. (817) 424-2130 or Matt Hodges Director, Investor Relations GameStop Corp. (817) 424-2130
Media Contact:
Investor Contact:


