FILE:GME/GME-8K-20100915170713.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On September 15, 2010, GameStop Corp. (the Company) issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors has authorized $500 million in additional repurchase funds of which $300 million will be used in the Companys share repurchase plan and $200 million will be used to retire the Companys Senior Notes due 2012. This program is incremental to the initial $300 million stock repurchase plan announced in January 2010 and completed in the Companys second fiscal quarter of 2010.
Under the repurchase program, the Company may purchase the Companys Senior Notes due 2012 and/or shares of issued and outstanding Class A Common Stock, par value $0.001 per share, through open market purchases, debt calls or privately negotiated transactions in compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and other legal requirements. The timing and actual amount of debt or share repurchases will depend on several factors including price, capital availability and other market conditions. This repurchase program does not have any specific limitations and may be suspended or terminated at any time.
A copy of the press release issued by the Company on September 15, 2010 announcing the foregoing is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
GameStop Announces $500 Million Share & Debt Repurchase Program
GRAPEVINE, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--September 15, 2010--GameStop Corp. (NYSE: GME), the worlds largest video game and entertainment software retailer, today announced that its Board of Directors has authorized $500 million in additional repurchase funds. $300 million of the additional funds will be used in the companys share repurchase plan and $200 million will be used to retire the companys Senior Notes. This program is incremental to the initial $300 million stock repurchase plan announced in January 2010 and completed in the companys second fiscal quarter of 2010.
J. Paul Raines, Chief Executive Officer, stated, We are pleased that the Board authorized this additional buyback in 2010 as the next phase in our long-term plan to increase total shareholder return. We have confidence in the business to continue delivering consistent cash flow, which gives us the ability to invest in our core business, digital initiatives and enhance shareholder value.
Rob Lloyd, Chief Financial Officer, added, This buyback emphasizes GameStops on-going commitment to increase shareholder returns and supports the companys goal to increase return on invested capital (ROIC) by 400 basis points over the next four years.
Under the program, GameStop may purchase debt or shares through open market purchases, debt calls or privately negotiated transactions in compliance with SEC regulations and other legal requirements. The timing and actual amount of debt or shares repurchased will depend on several factors including price, capital availability and other market conditions. This repurchase program does not have any specific limitations and may be suspended or terminated at any time.
About GameStop
Headquartered in Grapevine, TX, GameStop Corp., a Fortune 500 and S&P 500 company, is the world's largest video game and entertainment software retailer. The company operates 6,549 retail stores in 17 countries worldwide. The company also operates e-commerce sites, including GameStop.com, and publishes Game Informer(R) magazine, a leading multi-platform video game publication. GameStop Corp. sells new and used video game software, hardware and accessories for video game systems from Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft. In addition, the company sells PC entertainment software, related accessories and other merchandise. General information on GameStop Corp. can be obtained at the company's corporate website: .
http://www.gamestopcorp.com
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements may include, but are not limited to, the outlook for fiscal 2010, future financial and operating results, projected store openings, the company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions, and other statements that are not historical facts. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of GameStop's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. GameStop undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the inability to obtain sufficient quantities of product to meet consumer demand, including console hardware; the timing of release of video game titles for next generation consoles; the risks associated with expanded international operations and the integration of acquisitions; the impact of increased competition and changing technology, including alternative methods of distribution, in the video game industry; and economic and other events that could reduce or impact consumer demand. Additional factors that could cause GameStop's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in GameStop's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2010 filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's Internet site at or .
http://www.sec.gov
http://investor.gamestop.com
CONTACT: Chris Olivera Vice President, Corporate Communications GameStop Corp. (817) 424-2130 or Matt Hodges Director, Investor Relations GameStop Corp. (817) 424-2130
Media Contact:
Investor Contact:


