FILE:GME/GME-8K-20100520103020.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02           Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, Results of Operations and Financial Condition, and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
On May 20, 2010, GameStop Corp. issued a press release announcing its financial results for its first quarter ended May 1, 2010.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information contained in this Current Report, including the exhibit, shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing of GameStop Corp., whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as otherwise expressly set forth therein.
Item 9.01           Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)       Exhibits
99.1                    Press Release issued by GameStop Corp., dated May 20, 2010.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
GAMESTOP CORP.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
GameStop Reports Record 2010 First Quarter Sales and Earnings
New Software Sales Increase 13%
Earnings Per Share Grow 14%
GRAPEVINE, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--May 20, 2010--GameStop Corp. (NYSE: GME), the worlds largest video game and entertainment software retailer, today reported sales and earnings for the first quarter ended May 1, 2010.
Financial Results
Total sales for the first quarter increased 5.1% to $2.08 billion, in comparison to $1.98 billion in the prior year quarter. Comparable store sales decreased 1.6%, due to a decline in hardware price points and hardware supply constraints. However, new video game software sales increased 13.3%, driven by a very strong slate of new games with from Electronic Arts, Sonys by Square Enix, and from Nintendo, and Take 2s making up the top sellers.
Battlefield Bad Company 2
God of War III, Final Fantasy XIII
Pokmon SoulSilver
HeartGold
Bioshock 2
Net earnings for the first quarter increased 6.8% to $75.2 million, as compared to net earnings of $70.4 million, including debt retirement costs of $2.9 million ($1.8 million, net of tax benefits) in the prior year quarter. Diluted earnings per share increased 14.3% to $0.48, as compared to $0.42 in the prior year quarter, including debt retirement costs of $0.01 per diluted share. Over the past four years, first quarter earnings have grown at a compounded annual growth rate of 62%.
Daniel DeMatteo, GameStops Chief Executive Officer, stated, I am pleased that our earnings have achieved the high end of guidance and total company sales have exceeded $2 billion for the first time in a non-holiday quarter. By maintaining a sharp focus on our customer needs and overall business execution, our strong brick and mortar business continues to provide the capital needed to invest in new stores as well as execute our strategic plan to incorporate digital gaming into our global operations.
The in-store test proved highly successful in economically acquiring and converting our customers to browser game players. Additionally, at the end of this month, GameStop will be marketing and selling downloadable content in a group of test stores. Of equal importance, our new customer loyalty program will launch in select markets. Altogether, we continue to deliver a superior shopping experience and are introducing our customers to the digital options for gaming.
Legends of Zork
Paul Raines, Chief Operating Officer, said, Our store associates did an outstanding job of executing our 'Go Big' marketing campaigns to promote hot new titles. Their effectiveness can be measured by the significant day one, week one and overall market share GameStop captured of this quarter's new releases. Our unique buy-sell-trade model continues to provide a strong value proposition for new game buyers.
Updated Guidance
For the second quarter of fiscal 2010, the company expects comparable store sales to range from -2.0% to +2.0%. Diluted earnings per share are expected to range from $0.25 to $0.27, a 9% to 17% increase over the prior year quarter.
Based on our current industry analysis and expected strength of several upcoming new video game software releases, the company is projecting third quarter fiscal 2010 diluted earnings per share to range from $0.38 to $0.41, a 19% to 28% increase over the prior year quarter.
GameStop is reiterating its full year diluted earnings per share guidance range of $2.58 to $2.68, representing a 14% to 18% increase over fiscal 2009. Full year comparable store sales are still expected to range from flat to +2.0%.
About GameStop
Headquartered in Grapevine, TX, GameStop Corp., a Fortune 500 and S&P 500 company, is the world's largest video game and entertainment software retailer. The company operates 6,486 retail stores in 17 countries worldwide. The company also operates e-commerce sites, including GameStop.com, and publishes Game Informer(R) magazine, a leading multi-platform video game publication. GameStop Corp. sells new and used video game software, hardware and accessories for video game systems from Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft. In addition, the company sells PC entertainment software, related accessories and other merchandise. General information on GameStop Corp. can be obtained at the company's corporate website: .
http://www.gamestopcorp.com
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements may include, but are not limited to, the outlook for fiscal 2010, future financial and operating results, projected store openings, the company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions, and other statements that are not historical facts. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of GameStop's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. GameStop undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the inability to obtain sufficient quantities of product to meet consumer demand, including console hardware; the timing of release of video game titles for next generation consoles; the risks associated with expanded international operations and the integration of acquisitions; the impact of increased competition and changing technology, including alternative methods of distribution, in the video game industry; and economic and other events that could reduce or impact consumer demand. Additional factors that could cause GameStop's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in GameStop's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2010 filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's Internet site at or .
http://www.sec.gov
http://investor.gamestop.com
CONTACT: Chris Olivera Vice President, Corporate Communications GameStop Corp. (817) 424-2130 or Matt Hodges Director, Investor Relations GameStop Corp. (817) 424-2130
Media Contact:
Investor Contact:


