FILE:GME/GME-8K-20100224170215.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
     
o
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
     
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
     
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
     
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers. 
 
            On February 24, 2010, GameStop Corp. (the Company) announced that Catherine R. Smith has resigned as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company to pursue other opportunities, and that Robert A. Lloyd, the Companys Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, has been appointed interim Chief Financial Officer.
            A copy of the Press Release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01        Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
            Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
GRAPEVINE, Texas, (Feb. 24, 2010) GameStop Corp. (NYSE:GME), the world's largest video game and entertainment software retailer, today announced that Catherine R. Smith has resigned from her role of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to accept a position with Walmart International. The company has also announced that Robert A. Lloyd, Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer of GameStop, has been named interim Chief Financial Officer, effective immediately.
 
Daniel DeMatteo, Chief Executive Officer of GameStop, said, "We are fortunate to have a strong executive team, including such talent as Rob, who is a 14-year GameStop veteran. He has been instrumental in guiding the company through its tremendous growth and success.  Rob has built and led a financial team that has spearheaded many measures to complete and integrate acquisitions, reduce operating costs and strengthen our position in long-term initiatives, while enhancing value and contributing to keeping GameStop competitive in the marketplace."
 
About GameStop Corp.
Headquartered in Grapevine, TX, GameStop Corp., a Fortune 500 and S&P 500 company, is the world's largest video game and entertainment software retailer. The company operates 6,457 retail stores in 17 countries worldwide. The company also operates an e-commerce site, GameStop.com, and publishes Game Informer(R) magazine, a leading multi-platform video game publication. GameStop Corp. sells new and used video game software, hardware and accessories for video game systems from Sony, Nintendo, and Microsoft. In addition, the company sells PC entertainment software, related accessories and other merchandise. General information on GameStop Corp. can be obtained at the company's corporate website:
http://www.gamestopcorp.com
.


