FILE:GME/GME-8K-20110712164255.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
     
o
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
     
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
     
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
     
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
            On July 11, 2011, based on the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of GameStop Corp. (the "Company") elected Shane Kim, age 48, a Class 1 Director of the Company.  Mr. Kim's term will expire at the Company's annual meeting of stockholders in 2012.
 
            Mr. Kim worked for Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft") for almost 20 years, retiring in January 2010.  For the last 15 years at Microsoft, Mr. Kim was with Microsoft's Interactive Entertainment Business division, most recently as its corporate vice president of Strategy and Business Development.  Before that, Mr. Kim was the corporate vice president of Microsoft Game Studios, where he oversaw a team of approximately 1,000 programmers, designers, artists and producers developing a broad range of Xbox 360 and Windows titles.  Since retiring from Microsoft in January 2010, Mr. Kim has been an independent adviser to companies in the interactive entertainment and digital media industries.  Mr. Kim received a bachelor's degree in economics and international relations from Stanford University, and an MBA from Harvard Business School.
 
            Mr. Kim has been determined by the Board to meet the "independence" standards of the New York Stock Exchange and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
            Mr. Kim will receive compensation consistent with the other non-management Directors of the Company.  Accordingly, on July 11, 2011, Mr. Kim received a grant of 4,620 shares of restricted Class A common stock of the Company under the Company's 2011 Incentive Plan, vesting in equal annual installments on the first through third anniversaries of the grant date.  Mr. Kim was not elected to the Board pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between Mr. Kim and any other persons, and there are no transactions between the Company and Mr. Kim or his immediate family members that require disclosure pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
with a matching cash grant of $27.00 per granted restricted share, in each case
 
 
            The Company's press release announcing Mr. Kim's election is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) 
Exhibits.
 
99.1                 Press Release, dated July 12, 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
            Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Grapevine, TX (July 12, 2011)GameStop Corp. (NYSE: GME), the world's largest multichannel video game retailer, today announced the appointment of Shane Kim to its board of directors.
 
Kim brings to the GameStop board nearly twenty years of experience in the constantly evolving video game industry. The majority of his career has been spent at Microsoft, where he held a variety of key roles, including spending the last fifteen years with its Interactive Entertainment Business (IEB) division.  His various responsibilities included driving strategic planning for IEB and leading Microsoft Games Studios as a corporate vice president. While at Microsoft,
Kim led the delivery of some of the industry's most renowned franchises
including Halo, Gears of War, Fable and Forza Motorsport as well as the innovative Xbox LIVE technology
.
 
Since retiring in 2010, he has actively advised several technology and digital media companies. 
 
"We are very excited to have Shane join our Board," said Dan DeMatteo, executive chairman of GameStop. "His broad video game knowledge and business experience will bring valuable insight in supporting the advancement of GameStop's digital strategy."  
 
About GameStop
GameStop Corp. (NYSE: GME), a Fortune 500 and S&P 500 company headquartered in Grapevine, Texas, is the world's largest multichannel video game retailer. GameStop's retail network and family of brands include 6,573 company-operated stores in 17 countries worldwide and online at
www.GameStop.com
.  Our network also includes:
www.Kongregate.com
, a leading browser-based game site; Game Informer(R) magazine, the leading multi-platform video game publication; Spawn Labs, a streaming technology company; and Impulse, Inc., a digital distribution platform available at .
www.impulsedriven.com
 
General information on GameStop Corp. can be obtained at the company's corporate website. Follow GameStop on Twitter @
www.twitter.com/GameStop
and find GameStop on Facebook @
www.facebook.com/GameStop
.
 
 
Contact:
Matt Hodges
Divisional Vice President
Public and Investor Relations
GameStop
(817) 424-2130
 
 
 
 
 


