FILE:GME/GME-8K-20110204102254.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT
TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On February 4, 2011, GameStop Corp. (the Company) issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors has authorized $500 million in additional repurchase funds which will be used in the Companys share repurchase plan and/or to retire the Companys Senior Notes due 2012. This program replaces the $500 million stock repurchase plan announced in September 2010.
Under the repurchase program, the Company may purchase the Companys Senior Notes due 2012 and/or shares of issued and outstanding Class A Common Stock, par value $0.001 per share, through open market purchases, debt calls or privately negotiated transactions in compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and other legal requirements. The timing and actual amount of debt or share repurchases will depend on several factors including price, capital availability and other market conditions. This repurchase program does not have any specific limitations and may be suspended or terminated at any time.
A copy of the press release issued by the Company on February 4, 2011 announcing the foregoing is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
GameStop Announces New $500 Million Share & Debt Repurchase Authorization
GRAPEVINE, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 4, 2011--GameStop Corp. (NYSE:GME), the worlds largest multi-channel video game retailer, today announced that its Board of Directors has authorized $500 million in additional funds for its share and debt repurchase program. This authorization replaces the $300 million plan announced in September 2010, under which, as of today, $138.4 million remained available for use. The funds will be used over the next 18 months to repurchase the company's stock and/or Senior Notes.
Dan DeMatteo, Executive Chairman, stated, This Board authorization emphasizes GameStops ongoing commitment to increase total shareholder return and supports the companys goal to increase return on invested capital (ROIC), while maintaining the liquidity to execute our business strategy.
Under the program, GameStop may purchase shares or debt through open market purchases, debt calls or privately negotiated transactions in compliance with SEC regulations and other legal requirements. The timing and actual amount of shares or debt repurchased will depend on several factors, including price, capital availability and other market conditions. This repurchase program does not have any specific limitations and may be suspended or terminated at any time.
About GameStop
GameStop Corp. (NYSE:GME), a Fortune 500 and S&P 500 company headquartered in Grapevine, Texas, is the world's largest multi-channel video game retailer. GameStops retail network and family of brands include 6,606 company-operated stores in 17 countries worldwide, , a leading browser-based game site with more than 10 million monthly unique visitors, and Game Informer(R) magazine, the leading multi-platform video game publication. The company also sells video games and related merchandise at . General information on GameStop Corp. can be obtained at the company's corporate website.
www.Kongregate.com
www.GameStop.com
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements may include, but are not limited to, the outlook for fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011, future financial and operating results, projected store openings, the company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions, and other statements that are not historical facts. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of GameStop's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. GameStop undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the inability to obtain sufficient quantities of product to meet consumer demand, including console hardware; the timing of release of video game titles for next generation consoles; the risks associated with expanded international operations and the integration of acquisitions; the impact of increased competition and changing technology, including alternative methods of distribution, in the video game industry; and economic, regulatory and other events, including litigation, that could reduce or impact consumer demand or affect the companys business. Additional factors that could cause GameStop's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in GameStop's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2010, filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's Internet site at or .
http://www.sec.gov
http://investor.gamestop.com
CONTACT: GameStop Corp. Chris Olivera, 817-424-2130 Vice President, Corporate Communications or Matt Hodges, 817-424-2130 Divisional VP, Investor Relations
Media Contact:
Investor Contact:


