FILE:GME/GME-8K-20120210170206.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
Item 5.02                      Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On February 7, 2012, the Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors (the Board) of GameStop Corp. (the Company) set the annual compensation opportunities for the Companys fiscal year ending February 2, 2013 (fiscal 2012) of Daniel A. DeMatteo, Executive Chairman, J. Paul Raines, Chief Executive Officer, Tony D. Bartel, President, and Robert A. Lloyd, Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer.
 
 
 
Fiscal 2012 Base Salaries
The Committee approved the following adjustments to base salaries, effective February 13, 2012:
 
Fiscal 2012 Performance Bonus Criteria
 
For fiscal 2012, the Committee approved performance criteria based on operating earnings, with payouts based on a percentage of annual salary as set forth above.  The operating earnings target set for 2012 demonstrates 10% growth over the amount currently expected for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2012 (fiscal 2011).  Bonuses may also be earned in greater or lesser percentages if targets are exceeded or not achieved by specified amounts, as set forth in the Compensation Plan.  The Committee made no changes to the annual incentive opportunities of Daniel A. DeMatteo, J. Paul Raines, Tony D. Bartel, or Robert A. Lloyd.
Fiscal 2012 Long-term Incentive Awards
 
The aforementioned fiscal 2012 long-term incentive opportunities approved by the Committee were awarded in the form of restricted shares.  The Committee believes this structure helps to align the interests of our executive officers with the interests of shareholders.  In the past, the Company had granted a combination of restricted shares and cash due to limitations on the amount of shares available to grant under the Companys incentive plan.  A new 2011 Incentive Plan was approved by shareholders at the annual shareholder meeting in June 2011 which provides adequate shares for the Company to return to granting restricted shares as its long-term incentive and eliminate the need to also grant cash.
One-half of the fiscal 2012 awards are earned upon achievement of defined performance goals (Performance Grants), including partial vesting based on achievement of specified percentages of the targets, with the remaining one-half earned on the basis of continued service (Time-Vested Grants).  Specifically, the Committee approved the following grants to the above-listed executive officers and R. Richard Fontaine, the Companys Chairman International:
 
 
 
 
 
2012 Long-term Incentive Awards  Stock-Denominated Grants
2012 Performance-Based One-time Retention Grants
Over the next several years, GameStop faces several challenges which will impact the long-term success of the Company, including:
In light of these challenges, the Committee created a special, one-time long-term award that would support retention of a highly-talented and capable management team.  At the same time, the Committee desired to create a program that also recognizes the importance of maintaining and improving the financial and operating performance of the business.
The Committee and the Board recognize the critical role played by Messrs. Raines, Bartel and Lloyd in meeting the challenges described above.  In recognition of these critical roles, the Committee approved a grant designed to retain Messrs. Raines, Bartel and Lloyd for the next three years.  The value of the grant for each individual represents a multiple of three times their 2012 annual salary.  The number of shares granted is derived using a stock price of $23.50 per share, which approximates the Companys share price at the time of the grant.  The shares granted are subject to a performance target tied to the Companys growth in net earnings in fiscal 2014 as measured against net earnings for fiscal 2011.  These awards vest in their entirety following measurement of the
 
 
 
performance against the target following fiscal 2014, including partial vesting for achievement of specified percentages of the target.
2012 Performance-Based Special Retention Grants
Reduction in Compensation for Executive Chairman
As part of the continued transition of management responsibilities to a new generation of leadership, the role of Daniel A. DeMatteo, our Executive Chairman, has been evolving since 2010.  As Executive Chairman, Mr. DeMatteo will continue to coordinate the activities of the Companys board of directors and be involved on a daily basis in setting the strategic direction of the Company and in oversight of the Companys day-to-day operations.  Mr. J. Paul Raines, the Companys Chief Executive Officer, reports directly to Mr. DeMatteo; however, Mr. DeMatteo routinely meets with many members of management to discuss strategy, results of operations, issues and risks facing the Company and other day-to-day business matters.
Due to the continued transition of Mr. DeMatteos role as Executive Chairman, the Committee made the decision to reduce the compensation package for Mr. DeMatteo.  The compensation package has been reduced approximately $2.2 million, or 30%, from fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2012 to align Mr. DeMatteos compensation with compensation packages typical for the executive chairman role he occupies.  The overall compensation package for fiscal 2012 for Mr. DeMatteo was set by the Committee following benchmarking of the pay packages for executive chairmen for the approximately 80 companies in the S&P 500 that have an executive chairman role.  Mr. DeMatteos 2012 total targeted compensation package of approximately $5.2 million is approximately 73% of the total targeted annual compensation package of approximately $7.1 million for Mr. Raines.
 
Pay Tied to Performance 
In an effort to further align the interests of the Companys named executive officers with those of shareholders, the Compensation Committee and management both recognized the need to introduce incentive awards tied to three-year performance and to introduce additional performance measures.  Accordingly, a portion of the long-term incentive award for Messrs. DeMatteo, Raines, Bartel and Lloyd is tied to return on invested capital to be measured after fiscal 2014.  In addition, the one-time retention grants for Messrs. Raines, Bartel and Lloyd are tied to achievement of 20% growth in net earnings for fiscal 2014 (as measured against net earnings for fiscal 2011).
As shown in the following table, the portion of overall compensation tied to performance (including the retention award) for the compensation plans awarded in 2012 for Messrs. Raines, Bartel and Lloyd represents 70%, 69% and 69%, respectively, of total targeted compensation (increased from 57%, 50% and 50%, respectively, tied to performance in the compensation targets awarded in 2011).  The following table also indicates the portion of the compensation targets awarded in 2012 tied to salary, time-vesting, one-year performance, three-year performance and performance (one year and three year combined):
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
GAMESTOP CORP.
(Registrant)
Date: February 10, 2012
                                                         
/s/        Robert A. Lloyd
Name:  Robert A. Lloyd
Title:    Executive Vice President and Chief
             Financial Officer


