FILE:GME/GME-8K-20120726191809.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 5.02.      Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On July 24, 2012, based on the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Board of Directors (the Board) of GameStop Corp. (the Company) elected Thomas Kelly, age 64, a Class 3 Director of the Company.  Mr. Kelly brings with him extensive board experience as well as more than 25 years of leadership in the communications and wireless industries.  His term will expire at the Companys annual meeting of stockholders in 2014.
From 1996 to 2006, Mr. Kelly held several positions at Nextel Communications, including chief operating officer, chief marketing officer and chief strategy officer.  He also served as the executive vice president of transition integration for Sprint Nextel Corp.  Since 2006, Mr. Kelly has served as a director on the boards of RadioFrame Networks, BroadSoft, Inc. and Gracenote, Inc.  He also currently serves on the board of Scotts Miracle-Gro Company.
Mr. Kelly has been determined by the Board to meet the independence standards of the New York Stock Exchange and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
Mr. Kelly will receive compensation consistent with the other non-management Directors of the Company.  Accordingly, on July 25, 2012, Mr. Kelly received a grant of 7,134 shares of restricted Class A common stock of the Company under the Companys 2011 Incentive Plan, and a cash grant of $112,500, in each case vesting in equal annual installments on the first through third anniversaries of the grant date.  Mr. Kelly was not elected to the Board pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between Mr. Kelly and any other persons, and there are no transactions between the Company and Mr. Kelly or his immediate family members that require disclosure pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
The Companys press release announcing Mr. Kellys election is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.1.
.
Item 9.01.       Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)  
Exhibits.
99.1                      Press Release issued by Company on July 26, 2012.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
GRAPEVINE, Texas--GameStop Corp. (NYSE: GME), the worlds largest multichannel video game retailer, today announced the appointment of Thomas N. Kelly to its board of directors.  Mr. Kelly brings with him extensive board experience as well as more than 25 years of leadership in the communications and wireless industries.
 
From 1996 to 2006, Kelly held several positions at Nextel Communications, including chief operating officer, chief marketing officer and chief strategy officer.  He also served as the executive vice president of Transition Integration for Sprint Nextel Corp.  Since 2006, Kelly has served as a director on the boards of RadioFrame Networks, BroadSoft, Inc. and Gracenote, Inc.  He currently serves on the board of the Scotts Miracle-Gro Company.
 
We are excited for Tom to join our board, as his excellent leadership experience will be a valuable asset to our team, said Dan DeMatteo, executive chairman of GameStop.  Additionally, his time in the wireless and communications industries lends him a unique perspective to advise on our mobile and digital initiatives.
 
About GameStop
 
GameStop Corp. (NYSE: GME), a Fortune 500 and S&P 500 company headquartered in Grapevine, Texas, is the world's largest multichannel video game retailer.  GameStops retail network and family of brands include 6,614 company-operated stores in 15 countries worldwide and online at www.GameStop.com.  Our network also includes: www.Kongregate.com, a leading browser-based game site; Game Informer(R) magazine, the leading multi-platform video game publication; Spawn Labs, a streaming technology company; and Impulse, Inc., a digital distribution platform available at http://www.GameStop.com/PC.
 
General information on GameStop Corp. can be obtained at the company's corporate website. Follow GameStop on Twitter @ www.twitter.com/GameStop and find GameStop on Facebook @ www.facebook.com/GameStop.
 
Contact
Matt Hodges
Vice President
Public & Investor Relations
GameStop
817-424-2126


