ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the narrative and tabular (but not the graphic) material included in the material captioned "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" on pages 28 through 37 of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on Form 10 K. SUBSEQUENT EVENT On February 24, 2004, the Companys Cordis operating company announced it had entered into a strategic alliance with Guidant Corporation for the co promotion of drug eluting stents and the advancement of new technology in coronary stent delivery systems. Sales and marketing resources of both companies will join forces to focus on promoting the CYPHER Sirolimus eluting Coronary Stent in the United States, with an option to pursue a similar arrangement in Japan in the future. The companies will collaborate on marketing and sales strategies associated with the CYPHER Stent, but will bear most marketing and sales costs separately. Cordis will continue to report all CYPHER Stent sales as revenue. Cordis will also obtain access to Guidants current and next generation technologies for delivery of coronary stents. Guidant and Cordis will immediately initiate development and regulatory plans for a CYPHER Stent that utilizes a Guidant stent delivery system. In addition, all outstanding patent disputes between the companies were settled, as described under Note 18 "Legal Proceedings" in the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements," filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on Form 10 K. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the material captioned "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition Liquidity and Capital Resources" on pages 34 through 35 of the Annual Report, filed as Exhibit 13 to this Report on Form 10 K. 
 
