FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20030724121625.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
The information included in Exhibit 99.1, which is intended to be furnished under Item 12 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is being furnished under Item 9 in accordance with SEC Release Nos. 33-8216 and 34-47853.
 
On Thursday, July 24, 2003, Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's 2003 second quarter. A copy of the press release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference. Attached as Exhibit 99.2, and being furnished under Item 9 "Regulation FD Disclosure," is a copy of the slide presentation made during the investor conference call to discuss the announced earnings.
 
The information in this report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 9 and Item 12 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 9 and Item 12 of this report will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE July 24, 2003
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Sunoco, Inc.
1801 Market Street
Philadelphia, Pa. 19103-1699
 
 
 
PHILADELPHIA, July 24, 2003Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) today reported net income of $81 million ($1.04 per share diluted) for the second quarter of 2003 versus net income of $9 million ($.12 per share diluted) for the 2002 second quarter.
 
For the first half of 2003, Sunoco reported net income of $167 million ($2.16 per share diluted) versus a net loss of $98 million ($1.29 per share diluted) for the 2002 first half.
 
"We are pleased with our second-quarter results," said John G. Drosdick, Sunoco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Each of our businesses was profitable and, versus the first quarter of 2003, improved Retail Marketing and Chemicals results offset most of the decline in Refining and Supply earnings in the quarter. The benefits of our diversified business portfolio were evident this quarter and should continue to favor the Company in the future.
 
"Despite downward pressure on margins during much of the period, Refining and Supply earned $50 million in the second quarter. Operating performance was excellent across our refining system. We ran our crude and conversion units at near capacity levels and did a good job optimizing production yields. This part of our business has earned $143 million through the first six months of this year. With increased gasoline demand, low distillate inventories, and new gasoline specifications on the horizon, we believe the prospects for continued better-than-average refining margins into 2004 are good.
 
SUNOCO 2Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 2
 
"Retail Marketing earned a record $36 million for the quarter. Increased springtime gasoline demand and some moderation in crude oil and wholesale gasoline prices contributed to much improved margins during the quarter. Year-to-date in 2003, Retail Marketing has earned $46 million  a strong contribution during a period of less-than-average gasoline demand growth for the industry. Except during periods of steadily rising crude oil and wholesale gasoline prices, we believe this business will continue to provide Sunoco good earnings and returns on invested capital.
 
"In Chemicals, we earned $10 million for the quarter, up from a loss of $4 million in the preceding quarter. Product price increases for both phenol and polypropylene combined with some feedstock cost relief during the quarter, resulted in improved margins for the business. Also, our recently completed transaction with Equistar Chemicals, L.P. to secure low-cost propylene supply for Chemicals increased earnings by approximately $5 million for the quarter. Absent significant increases in raw material costs, particularly crude oil based feedstocks, and with reasonable overall economic growth, we would expect to see continued improvement in our Chemicals results in future quarters.
 
"Earnings from our Logistics ($9 million) and Coke ($11 million) businesses also contributed to our second-quarter results and should continue to provide a relatively stable earnings stream to the Company.
 
"For the first half of 2003, we have had good earnings and cash flow results. Year-to-date earnings were $167 million ($2.16 per share diluted), up sharply from depressed 2002 levels. We ended the quarter with $240 million of cash, down $150 million from the beginning of the year. Excluding approximately $360 million attributable to the Equistar transaction and the acquisition of retail sites from Speedway, we generated net cash flow of $210 million in the first half of 2003. With no short-term borrowings and a net-debt-to-capital ratio of 44 percent at June 30, we have continued financial flexibility to pursue strategic opportunities."
 
Drosdick continued, "On the strategic front, we continue the work to upgrade our asset portfolio. In June, we completed the acquisition of 193 high-volume, company-operated retail
 
SUNOCO 2Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 3
 
sites in the southeast U.S. from Speedway and are in the process of selling our interests in 190 retail sites in Ohio and Michigan. Our expectation with respect to the sites to be sold in Ohio and Michigan is to continue to supply the outlets through new agreements with Sunoco distributors. We have integrated the Bayport, TX polypropylene plant acquired from Equistar on March 31, 2003 into Sunoco and have begun to capture synergies within our larger polypropylene business.
 
"Separate transactions to purchase the Eagle Point, NJ refinery from El Paso Corporation and to sell our plasticizers operation to BASF continue under regulatory review. We have received requests for additional information on both transactions from the Federal Trade Commission and are in the process of complying with the requests. We continue to believe that we will be able to conclude these transactions by year end."
 
DETAILS OF SECOND QUARTER RESULTS
REFINING AND SUPPLY
 
Refining and Supply earned $50 million in the current quarter versus $15 million in the second quarter of 2002. Significantly higher margins in the Northeast refining center led to the much improved results versus the comparable prior-year quarter. Partially offsetting the margin improvement were higher expenses, including refinery fuel costs.
 
In Sunoco's northeast refining system, realized margins were $4.42 per barrel, up $1.76 per barrel from the 2002 second-quarter level. Margins for distillates and residual fuels continued to be higher than 2002 due to low inventories and higher natural gas prices. Gasoline margins, particularly for reformulated and premium grades, also improved considerably during the quarter and were higher than second-quarter 2002 levels.
 
Realized margins and overall results at Sunoco's Mid-Continent refineries in Toledo and Tulsa were down versus the comparable 2002 second quarter. Higher crude acquisition costs, in part due to an unfavorable crude market, and higher natural gas fuel costs contributed to the lower results in this system.
 
SUNOCO 2Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 4
 
RETAIL MARKETING
 
Retail Marketing earned $36 million in the second quarter of 2003 versus $21 million in the second quarter of 2002. Average retail gasoline margins were 11.6 cents per gallon, up 2.4 cents per gallon compared to the prior-year quarter. Also contributing to the improvement were higher retail distillate margins and 3 percent higher gasoline and distillate sales volumes. Partially offsetting these positive factors were higher expenses. The acquisition of retail sites from Speedway was completed during June and had a minimal impact on earnings for the quarter.
 
CHEMICALS
 
Chemicals earned $10 million in the second quarter of 2003 versus a loss of $1 million in the prior-year period. The increase was due to higher margins for both phenol and polypropylene and a $5 million after-tax contribution related to the Equistar transaction completed on March 31, 2003.
 
Partially offsetting these improvements were lower sales volumes, which were down 6 percent versus the comparable 2002 quarter, higher fuel costs and lower equity earnings from Belvieu Environmental Fuels (BEF), Sunoco's joint venture MTBE interest. Results from BEF were down $6 million versus the 2002 second quarter due to weakness in MTBE demand. The current quarter includes after-tax charges totaling $3 million primarily related to a fire at the Company's LaPorte, TX facility and employee terminations in connection with a productivity improvement plan.
 
LOGISTICS
 
Sunoco's Logistics segment, which is comprised of Sunoco's 75-percent interest in Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. (NYSE: SXL) and certain other assets and joint venture interests, earned $9 million in both second-quarter periods.
 
COKE
 
The Coke business earned $11 million in the second quarter of 2003 versus $9 million in the second quarter of 2002. The increase was primarily due to higher coke prices at Jewell Coke.
 
SUNOCO 2Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 5
 
Jewell's 2002 coke sales were made into lower-value spot markets due to the bankruptcy of a contract customer. In October 2002, the Coke business entered into a three-year sales contract with International Steel Group for the expected annual production from Jewell.
 
CORPORATE AND OTHER
 
Corporate administrative expenses were $10 million after tax in the current quarter versus $6 million in the comparable quarter last year. The increase was largely due to higher employee-related expenses, including pension and performance-related incentive compensation.
 
Net financing expenses were $25 million after tax in the second quarter of 2003 versus $21 million in the second quarter of 2002. The increase in net financing expenses was largely due to higher preferential return expenses related to Sunoco's cokemaking operations. In July 2002, Sunoco transferred an additional interest in its Indiana Harbor cokemaking operation to a third-party investor for $215 million in cash.
 
Results for the second quarter 2002 included a $17 million after-tax provision primarily for asset write-downs and associated charges related to the shutdown of a polypropylene line at the La Porte, TX plant and the shutdown of certain processing units at the Toledo refinery. Also included in the provision was a $3 million after-tax accrual relating to a lawsuit concerning the Puerto Rico refinery, which was divested in December 2001.
 
SIX MONTH RESULTS
 
Sunoco earned $167 million for the first six months of 2003 versus a net loss of $98 million in the comparable 2002 period. The increase is primarily due to higher margins in the Refining and Supply and Retail Marketing business units. Higher sales volumes in these businesses also contributed to the improved results. Higher earnings from Sunoco's other business units were offset by higher corporate and net financing expenses.
 
Results for the first six months of 2002 included the previously noted $17 million after-tax provision recorded in the second quarter.
 
SUNOCO 2Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 6
 
Sunoco, Inc., headquartered in Philadelphia, PA, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of petroleum and petrochemical products. With 730,000 barrels per day of refining capacity, over 4,600 retail sites selling gasoline and convenience items, interests in almost 11,000 miles of domestic crude oil and refined product pipelines and 34 product terminals, Sunoco is one of the largest independent refiner-marketers in the United States. Sunoco is a growing force in petrochemicals with approximately six billion pounds of annual sales, largely chemical intermediates used in the manufacture of fibers, plastics, film and resins. Utilizing a proprietary technology, Sunoco also manufactures two million tons annually of high-quality blast furnace coke for use in the steel industry.
 
Anyone interested in obtaining further insights into this quarter's results can monitor the Company's quarterly teleconference call, which is scheduled for 3:00 p.m. ET today (July 24, 2003). It can be accessed through Sunoco's Web sitewww.SunocoInc.com. It is suggested that you visit the site prior to the teleconference to ensure that you have downloaded any necessary software.
 
NOTE: Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although Sunoco believes that the assumptions underlying these statements are reasonable, investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and necessarily involve risks that may affect Sunoco's business prospects and performance causing actual results to differ from those discussed in the foregoing release. Such risks and uncertainties include, by way of example and not of limitation: general business and economic conditions; competitive products and pricing; changes in refining, chemical and other product margins; variation in petroleum-based commodity prices and availability of crude oil supply or transportation; fluctuations in supply of feedstocks and demand for products manufactured; changes in operating conditions and costs; changes in the expected level of environmental capital, operating or remediation expenditures; potential equipment malfunction; potential labor relations problems; the legislative and regulatory environment; plant construction/repair
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 7
 
delays; nonperformance by major customers, suppliers or other business partners; and political and economic conditions, including the impact of potential terrorist acts and international hostilities. These and other applicable risks and uncertainties have been described more fully in Sunoco's first quarter Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 14, 2003 and in other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Sunoco undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this release, whether as a result of new information or future events.
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 8
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 9
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 10
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 11
 
 
Certain revisions to Sunoco's Financial and Operating Statistics have been made to the 2002 amounts to conform to the 2003 presentation. The primary changes provide refinery production volumes (instead of the previously reported sales volumes) and realized refining margin per barrel on the basis of production available for sale (instead of the previously reported sales volumes which included purchase-for-sale activity). More detailed information concerning refining throughputs has also been provided. Additionally, the value of internally produced fuel at Sunoco's refineries and chemical plants, which was previously shown as an operating expense, is now shown as a reduction to realized margins.
 
Note: Comparable Financial and Operating Statistics for periods dating back to 1999 are available at Sunoco's website, www.SunocoInc.com, under "Shareholder and Financial Information  Financial Reports".
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 12
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 13
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 14
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q03 EARNING, PAGE 15
 
 
 
DEPRECIATION, DEPLETION AND
AMORTIZATION (Millions of Dollars)
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q03 EARNING, PAGE 16
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 17
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q03 EARNININGS, PAGE 18
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 19
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
1 of 6
 
 
This slide presentation should be reviewed in conjunction with Sunoco's second quarter 2003 earnings conference call, held on July 24, 2003 at 3:00 p.m. ET. You may listen to the audio portion of the conference call on this website or an audio recording will be available after the call's completion by calling 1-888-568-0719.
 
Those statements made by representatives of Sunoco during the course of Sunoco's earnings conference call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although Sunoco believes that the assumptions underlying these statements are reasonable, investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and necessarily involve risks that may affect Sunoco's business prospects and performance causing actual results to differ from those discussed during the conference call. Such risks and uncertainties include, by way of example and not of limitation: general business and economic conditions; competitive products and pricing; changes in refining, chemical and other product margins; variation in petroleum-based commodity prices and availability of crude oil supply or transportation; fluctuations in supply of feedstocks and demand for products manufactured; changes in operating conditions and costs; changes in the expected level of environmental capital, operating or remediation expenditures; potential equipment malfunction; potential labor relations problems; the legislative and regulatory environment; plant construction/repair delays; nonperformance by major customers, suppliers or other business partners; and political and economic conditions, including the impact of potential terrorist acts and international hostilities. These and other applicable risks and uncertainties have been described more fully in Sunoco's first quarter Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 14, 2003 and in other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Sunoco undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this conference call, whether as a result of new information or future events.
 
2 of 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 of 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 of 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 of 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 of 6
 
 
 
A1
 
 
 
A2
 
 
 
 
A3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A4
 
 
 
 
A5
 
 
 
A6
 
 
 
 
 
 
A7
 
 
 
A8
 
 
 
A9
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A10
 
 
 
 
A11
 
 
 
 
A12
 
 
 
 
 
 
A13


