FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20030402081854.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.
Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Item 9.
Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On April 2, 2003, at the 31st Annual Howard Weil Energy Conference held in New Orleans, LA, executives of Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") presented to certain investors the information about the Company described in the slides attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1. Exhibit 99.1 and the slides thereof are incorporated by reference herein. The information in Item 9 of this report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Regulation FD. Accordingly, the information in Item 9 of this report will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference. The furnishing of the information in this report is not intended to, and does not, constitute a determination or admission by the Company, that the information in this report is material or complete, or that investors should consider this information before making an investment decision with respect to any security of the Company or any of its affiliates.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
SUNOCO, INC.
 
 
DATE April 2, 2003
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Howard Weil
Energy Conference
Jack Drosdick
April 2, 2003
Safe Harbor Statement
Those statements made by representatives of Sunoco during the course of this presentation that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although Sunoco believes that the assumptions underlying these statements are reasonable, investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and necessarily involve risks that may affect Sunoco's business prospects and performance causing actual results to differ from those discussed during the presentation. Such risks and uncertainties include, by way of example and not of limitation: general business and economic conditions; competitive products and pricing; changes in refining, chemical and other product margins; variation in petroleum-based commodity prices and availability of crude oil supply or transportation; fluctuations in supply of feedstocks and demand for products manufactured; changes in operating conditions and costs; changes in the level of environmental remediation spending; potential equipment malfunction; potential labor relations problems; the legislative and regulatory environment; and plant construction/repair delays; nonperformance by major customers or suppliers; and political and economic conditions, including the impact of potential terrorist acts and international hostilities. These and other applicable risks and uncertainties have been described more fully in Sunoco's 2002 Form 10K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 7, 2003.
Sunoco undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information or future events.
Company Dimensions
Capital Employed, MM$
Total = $2.8 billion
76.6 MM shares outstanding and $2.8 billion market capitalization
Strategic Summary
Refining & Supply
*Excludes divested Lubricants operations
Retail Marketing
Chemicals Summary
Equistar Transaction
Logistics Positioned to Grow
* as of 3/28/03
Coke Growth Opportunities - U.S. and Abroad
Financial Capacity / Liquidity at 12/31/02
Why Invest in Sunoco?
For More Information
Press releases and SEC filings are available on our website at www.SunocoInc.com
Contact for more information:


