FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20030424114710.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. .
Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
 
(c)
Exhibits
 
99.1 Press release dated April 24, 2003.
 
99.2 Slide presentation given April 24, 2003 by executives of Sunoco, Inc. during investor teleconference.
 
Item 9. .
Regulation FD Disclosure (including Item 12 information)
 
The information included in Exhibit 99.1, which is intended to be furnished under Item 12 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition," is being furnished under this Item 9 in accordance with SEC Release Nos. 33-8216 and 34-47853.
 
On Thursday, April 24, 2003, Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's first quarter 2003 earnings. A copy of the press release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference. Attached as Exhibit 99.2, and being furnished under Item 9 "Regulation FD Disclosure," is a copy of the slide presentation made during the investor conference call to discuss the announced earnings.
 
The information in this report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 9 and Item 12 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 9 and Item 12 of this report will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
SUNOCO, INC.
 
 
 
DATE April 24, 2003
 
 
 

 
[GRAPHIC REMOVED HERE]
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
PHILADELPHIA, April 24, 2003  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) today reported net income of $86 million ($1.12 per share diluted) for the first quarter of 2003 versus a net loss of $107 million ($1.41 per share diluted) for the 2002 first quarter.
 
"We have had an excellent start to 2003," said John G. Drosdick, Sunoco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Financially, our earnings and cash generation for the quarter were quite strong and strategically we took several important steps designed to profitably grow the company.
 
"For the quarter, we earned $86 million, largely on the strength of much improved Refining and Supply results. The improvement in refining fundamentals and margins that began in late 2002 continued during the recent quarter. Refined product supply, which began the year at below-average inventory levels, was further impacted by reduced crude oil and product supply from Venezuela, a high level of industry-wide refinery maintenance activity and increased product demand associated with the exceptionally cold winter in the U.S. and Europe. Despite significantly higher crude oil and transportation costs, refining margins were very strong, especially in our northeast U.S. refining system. While we experienced some cold-weather-related downtime at our facilities, overall our refineries ran at a very high utilization level and did a good job maximizing and optimizing production during the quarter.
 
SUNOCO 1Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 2
 
"The rising crude oil costs, however, did squeeze margins in our Retail Marketing and Chemicals businesses, where price changes tend to lag. Retail Marketing earned $10 million, mostly late in the quarter when crude oil prices began to decline from near $40 per barrel levels. Chemicals lost $4 million for the quarter, as benzene and propylene costs increased sharply ahead of price increases for phenol and polypropylene. The moderation in crude oil prices experienced so far in April should help both of these businesses in the second quarter. Earnings from our Logistics and Coke businesses, at $11 and $10 million, respectively, were up from last year's first quarter."
 
Drosdick continued, "We also announced several transactions that we believe will strengthen and grow Sunoco. In Retail Marketing, we reached agreement to acquire 193 high-quality, company-operated Speedway retail sites, expanding our presence in Florida and elsewhere in the southeastern United States. We also announced our intention to sell our interests in 190 retail sites in Ohio and Michigan, where we expect to continue to supply the outlets through new agreements with Sunoco distributors. In Chemicals, we formed a partnership with Equistar Chemicals, L.P. on March 31, 2003 to secure low-cost propylene supply and acquire additional polypropylene production capacity. Each of these transactions meets our strategic and value criteria for invested capital and is expected to significantly enhance the earnings power of the company.
 
"Importantly, we have the financial capacity to execute this growth. During the quarter, we closed on our transaction with Equistar ($198 million) and still reduced our net debt by $66 million. We ended the quarter with $459 million of cash, no short-term borrowings and an improved ratio of debt (net of cash) to capital of 40.6 percent. We have also reduced our capital spending expectations for 2003 by $50 million to approximately $470 million. The reduced spending reflects a combination of deferrals and capital cuts, partially offset by accelerated construction of a sulfur plant at our Marcus Hook refinery this year.
 
"This combination of opportunistic growth and prudent portfolio management will continue to be central to our strategic activities."
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 3
 
DETAILS OF FIRST QUARTER RESULTS
 
REFINING AND SUPPLY
 
Refining and Supply earned $93 million in the current quarter versus a loss of $76 million in the first quarter of 2002. Significantly higher margins in the Northeast and Toledo refining centers and a 5 percent increase in total production volumes led to the much improved results.
 
In Sunoco's northeast refining system, realized margins were $5.67 per barrel, up almost $5.00 per barrel from the 2002 first-quarter level. Margins were higher in most products, particularly for heating oil and other distillates and residual fuels due to the exceptionally cold winter and high natural gas prices. Despite some cold-weather-induced reliability issues during the quarter, input to crude units averaged 95 percent of rated capacity and production was up 3 percent versus the year-ago period.
 
Results were also much improved at the Toledo refinery. Realized margins averaged $5.13 per barrel, up almost $4.00 per barrel from the comparable 2002 quarter. Operating performance was also improved as crude inputs averaged 100 percent of rated capacity during the quarter and production was 12 percent higher than the 2002 first quarter.
 
Partially offsetting the above improvements were lower results at the Tulsa refinery. The decline was due largely to higher natural gas fuel costs and lower margins for lubricant base oil products.
 
RETAIL MARKETING
 
Retail Marketing earned $10 million in the first quarter of 2003 versus a loss of $20 million in the first quarter of 2002. Average retail gasoline margins were 8.3 cents per gallon, up over 5 cents per gallon compared to the prior-year quarter. Also contributing to the improvement were higher retail distillate margins, higher gasoline and distillate sales volumes and improved results from Sunoco's retail heating oil business. Partially offsetting these positive factors were higher planned expenses.
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 4
 
CHEMICALS
 
Chemicals had a loss of $4 million in the first quarter of 2003 versus income of $2 million in the prior-year period. The decline was due largely to lower overall margins resulting from the steady increase in feedstock costs during the quarter. Although selling prices for both polypropylene and phenol increased during the quarter, recovery in the marketplace lagged raw material cost increases and resulted in lower average margins for the quarter. Increased fuel costs due to higher natural gas prices also contributed to the decline. Partially offsetting the negative variances were 4 percent higher sales volumes.
 
LOGISTICS
 
Sunoco's Logistics segment, which is comprised of Sunoco's 75-percent interest in Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. (NYSE: SXL) and certain other assets and joint venture interests, earned $11 million in the first quarter of 2003 versus $8 million in the year-ago period. The increase was due largely to higher earnings from Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. resulting from improved Western crude operations and increased joint-venture income associated with assets acquired in November 2002.
 
COKE
 
The Coke business earned $10 million in the first quarter of 2003 versus $7 million in the first quarter of 2002. The first-quarter 2002 results included a $4 million after-tax write-off of accounts receivable related to the bankruptcy of a former long-term contract customer.
 
CORPORATE AND OTHER
 
Corporate administrative expenses were $9 million in the current quarter versus $8 million in the comparable quarter last year.
 
Net financing expenses were $25 million in the first quarter of 2003 versus $20 million in the first quarter of 2002. The increase in net financing expenses was largely due to higher preferential return expenses related to Sunoco's cokemaking operations.
 
SUNOCO 1Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 5
 
Sunoco, Inc., headquartered in Philadelphia, PA, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of petroleum and petrochemical products. With 730,000 barrels per day of refining capacity, approximately 4,300 retail sites selling gasoline and convenience items, interests in almost 11,000 miles of crude oil and refined product pipelines and 34 product terminals, Sunoco is one of the largest independent refiner-marketers in the United States. Sunoco is a growing force in petrochemicals with approximately six billion pounds of annual sales, largely chemical intermediates used in the manufacture of fibers, plastics, film and resins. Utilizing a proprietary technology, Sunoco also manufactures two million tons annually of high-quality blast furnace coke for use in the steel industry.
 
Anyone interested in obtaining further insights into this quarter's results can monitor the Company's quarterly teleconference call, which is scheduled for 3:00 p.m. ET today (April 24, 2003). It can be accessed through Sunoco's Web sitewww.SunocoInc.com. It is suggested that you visit the site prior to the teleconference to ensure that you have downloaded any necessary software.
 
NOTE: Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although Sunoco believes that the assumptions underlying these statements are reasonable, investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and necessarily involve risks that may affect Sunoco's business prospects and performance causing actual results to differ from those discussed in the foregoing release. Such risks and uncertainties include, by way of example and not of limitation: general business and economic conditions; competitive products and pricing; changes in refining, chemical and other product margins; variation in petroleum-based commodity prices and availability of crude oil supply or transportation; fluctuations in supply of feedstocks and demand for products manufactured; changes in operating conditions and costs; changes in the expected level of environmental capital, operating or remediation expenditures; potential equipment malfunction; potential labor relations problems; the legislative and regulatory environment; plant construction/repair delays; nonperformance by major customers or suppliers; and political and economic
 
SUNOCO 1Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 6
 
conditions, including the impact of potential terrorist acts and international hostilities. These and other applicable risks and uncertainties have been described more fully in Sunoco's 2002 Form 10-K filed on March 7, 2003 and in other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Sunoco undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this release, whether as a result of new information or future events.
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 7
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 8
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 9
 
 
Certain revisions to Sunoco's Financial and Operating Statistics have been made to the prior-period amounts to conform to the first quarter of 2003 presentation. The primary changes provide refinery production volumes (instead of the previously reported sales volumes) and realized refining margin per barrel on the basis of production available for sale (instead of the previously reported sales volumes which included purchase-for-sale activity). More detailed information concerning refining throughputs has also been provided. Additionally, the value of internally produced fuel at Sunoco's refineries and chemical plants, which was previously shown as an operating expense, is now shown as a reduction to realized margins.
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 10
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 11
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 12
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 13
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 14
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 15
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 16
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q03 EARNINGS, PAGE 17
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


