FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20040922170223.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 .
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On September 20, 2004, Sunoco, Inc. (R&M) (the "Company"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Sunoco, Inc., entered into a fifteen-year Product Supply Agreement with BOC Americas (PGS), Inc. ("BOC"), an affiliate of The BOC Group plc, a U.K. company (the "Product Supply Agreement"). The Product Supply Agreement provides that the Company will provide BOC with feedstock and utilities for use by BOC at a hydrogen plant to be constructed by BOC on land leased from the Company at the Company's refinery located in Toledo, Ohio (the "BOC Facility"). BOC will utilize the feedstock and utilities to generate hydrogen and steam at the BOC facility to sell and deliver to the Company and another third party. It is anticipated that commercial operations of BOC's sale and delivery of hydrogen and steam to the Company for use at its Toledo refinery will commence in 2006.
 
Sunoco, Inc. and its affiliates do not have any material relationship with BOC or its affiliates other than the transaction contemplated in the Product Supply Agreement and certain other documents executed in connection with the Product Supply Agreement.
 
Statements contained in this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


