FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20051103143906.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
The press release announcing the financial results for the Company's 2005 third quarter is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and 7.01 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
On November 2, 2005, Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's 2005 third quarter. Additional information concerning the Company's third quarter earnings, presented to investors in a teleconference call on November 3, 2005, is contained in a copy of the slide presentation attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Sunoco, Inc.
1735 Market Street
Philadelphia, Pa. 19103-7583
 
 
 
PHILADELPHIA, November 2, 2005  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) today reported net income of $329 million ($2.39 per share diluted) for the third quarter of 2005 versus $104 million ($.69 per share diluted) for the 2004 third quarter. Excluding special items, income for the current quarter was $357 million ($2.60 per share diluted) compared to $128 million ($.85 per share diluted) for the 2004 third quarter.
 
For the first nine months of 2005, Sunoco reported net income of $687 million ($4.97 per share diluted) versus net income of $427 million ($2.81 per share diluted) for the first nine months of 2004. Excluding special items, Sunoco's income was $715 million ($5.17 per share diluted) versus $451 million ($2.97 per share diluted) for the comparable 2004 period.
 
All per-share amounts reflect the two-for-one stock split effected on August 1, 2005.
 
"Results for the Company continued to be very strong and were clearly impacted by the effects of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita," said John G. Drosdick, Sunoco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "With product demand strong and industry production at near maximum levels before the disruptions, the loss of over 10 percent of U.S. refining capacity during September caused prices and margins to spike further, as both supply and demand responses were necessary to keep the system adequately supplied.
 
"On the supply side, inventory draws, increased imports and higher utilization rates and production yields from operating refineries were required. To that end, aided by some temporary regulatory waivers, Sunoco's refineries were able to achieve several production records, including crude throughput and gasoline production levels during the month of September to help supply our markets. On the demand side, the rapid increase in retail prices combined with some temporary disruptions to the supply chain, led to lower September demand.
 
"While the ultimate impact of the hurricanes on the energy complex will be felt for some time, it is encouraging that the industry and the market have responded to date and crude oil and refined product prices have largely returned to pre-Katrina levels."
 
Commenting on Sunoco's third quarter results, Drosdick stated, "For the quarter, earnings before special items totaled $357 million, led by Refining and Supply income of $341 million. Realized refining margins were approximately $7 per barrel prior to the Gulf Coast hurricanes and averaged almost $11 per barrel for the quarter. Despite some unscheduled downtime in mid-quarter, crude unit utilization was 96 percent and overall refining UEDC (utilization of equivalent distillation capacity) was a near record 89 percent for the quarter.
 
"Retail Marketing earned $6 million in the quarter  with post-Katrina results approximating break-even. Our emphasis during September was to ensure our retail customers were adequately supplied and to responsibly pass through the volatility in wholesale prices, both up and down. Total volumes were up slightly versus the comparable 2004 quarter," Drosdick said.
 
"Chemicals had earnings of $23 million for the quarter. Production losses and other costs associated with the hurricanes reduced results by approximately $4 million after tax. Physical damage to our Houston-area facilities was minimal and operations returned to normal in October.
 
"In our other businesses, Coke and Logistics earned $15 million and $7 million, respectively.
 
"We continued to repurchase shares - $36 million for the quarter and $167 million through September 30, 2005  while further strengthening our balance sheet. Shares outstanding were 136.1 million at quarter-end, down two percent for the year. As of September 30, 2005, the cash balance was $816 million and net debt-to-capital (as defined in our revolving credit agreement) was 22 percent.
 
"Looking forward, the challenges and opportunities for refiners are significant, as future product specification changes will be difficult and spare capacity is limited. Our efforts and resources over the next several years will be directed toward increasing the capacity and productivity of our refining assets. To that end, we expect to invest approximately $1.8 billion in our refineries over the next three years, with a greater emphasis on growth projects which will increase total crude unit capacity by 100 thousand barrels per day, to 1.0 million barrels per day, while improving our product yields and crude oil and other feedstock processing flexibility. The first phase of this capital program is already underway. A $300 million project to expand the capacity of one of the fluid catalytic cracking units at the Philadelphia refinery, and to significantly reconfigure the unit to upgrade approximately 25 thousand barrels per day of residual fuel production into higher-value gasoline and distillate production
is expected to be completed early in 2007. The timely completion of this capital program is subject to the prompt receipt of all necessary permits. This is the strategy we believe is right for our industry, our customers and our shareholders."
 
DETAILS OF THIRD QUARTER RESULTS
 
REFINING AND SUPPLY
 
Refining and Supply earned $341 million in the current quarter versus $89 million in the third quarter of 2004. The $252 million increase in earnings was due to higher realized margins and higher production volumes. The higher realized margins are largely as a result of the supply disruptions on the Gulf Coast due to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita and the increased use of discounted high-acid crude oils, which averaged approximately 72 thousands of barrels daily in the third quarter of 2005. Partially offsetting these factors were higher expenses, including fuel and employee-related charges.
 
Total crude unit throughput averaged 865.7 thousand barrels daily (96 percent utilization) for the quarter, with total production available for sale approximating 83 million barrels.
 
RETAIL MARKETING
 
Retail Marketing earned $6 million in the third quarter of 2005 versus $22 million in the third quarter of 2004. The decrease in results was due largely to lower retail margins for gasoline. Total volumes were up slightly versus the prior-year quarter.
 
CHEMICALS
 
Chemicals earned $23 million in the third quarter of 2005 versus $30 million in the prior-year period. In addition to the impact of the hurricanes, the decrease in earnings was primarily due to higher expenses, including fuel and employee-related charges. Higher phenol margins, particularly for bisphenol-A, were largely offset by lower margins on the propylene supply contract with Equistar Chemicals, L.P.
 
LOGISTICS
 
Earnings for the Logistics segment were $7 million in the third quarter of 2005 versus $9 million in the prior-year period. The decrease was primarily due to Sunoco's reduced ownership interest in Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. (NYSE: SXL).
 
COKE
 
The Coke business earned $15 million in the third quarter of 2005 versus $12 million in the third quarter of 2004. The increase was due primarily to higher gains from litigation settlements and income from the new cokemaking facility in Haverhill, Ohio, which commenced operations in March 2005, partially offset by higher business development and other expenses.
 
CORPORATE AND OTHER
 
Corporate administrative expenses were $25 million after tax in the current quarter versus $15 million in the comparable quarter last year. The increase was largely due to higher employee-related expenses, primarily accruals for stock-based incentive compensation.
 
Net financing expenses were $10 million after tax in the third quarter of 2005 versus $19 million in the prior-year quarter. The decrease was primarily due to lower interest expense resulting from 2004 debt restructuring activities, increased capitalized interest and higher interest income.
 
SPECIAL ITEMS
 
During the third quarter of 2005, Sunoco recognized an $18 million after-tax gain in connection with an income tax settlement of certain federal income tax issues, net of a provision established for certain state and local tax matters. In addition, Sunoco recognized a $46 million after-tax loss associated with an arbitration decision related to a phenol pricing dispute. The loss covers estimated damages for the period from June 2003 to April 2005. Sunoco intends to contest the finding of liability and determination of damages. The phenol supply agreement provides for a reopener for pricing on or after January 1, 2005. The parties have been unsuccessful in negotiating the post-2004 price and a new price will be determined in a second arbitration to be held before a different arbitrator, scheduled for the second quarter of 2006.
 
During the third quarter of 2004, Sunoco recognized an $8 million after-tax loss related to the sale of its one-third interest in BEF and a $34 million after-tax loss from the early extinguishment of outstanding debt. Sunoco also recognized another $18 million after-tax gain from the settlement of certain federal income tax issues.
 
NINE MONTH RESULTS
 
Sunoco earned $687 million for the first nine months of 2005 versus $427 million in the first nine months of 2004. The increase was primarily due to higher margins in Sunoco's Refining and Supply and Chemicals businesses. Also contributing to the improvement in earnings were higher production of refined products, increased use of high-acid discounted crude oils, an absence of the loss on early extinguishment of debt in connection with the debt restructuring in 2004, lower net financing expenses
and the absence of the loss related to the sale of Sunoco's one-third interest in BEF. Partially offsetting these positive factors were the loss associated with a phenol supply contract dispute, lower margins in Retail Marketing, higher expenses, primarily fuel and employee-related charges and a higher effective income tax rate.
 
Sunoco, Inc., headquartered in Philadelphia, PA, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of petroleum and petrochemical products. With 900,000 barrels per day of refining capacity, approximately 4,800 retail sites selling gasoline and convenience items, approximately 4,500 miles of crude oil and refined product owned and operated pipelines and 38 product terminals, Sunoco is one of the largest independent refiner-marketers in the United States. Sunoco is a significant manufacturer of petrochemicals with annual sales of approximately five billion pounds, largely chemical intermediates used to make fibers, plastics, film and resins. Utilizing a unique, patented technology, Sunoco also has the capacity to manufacture over 2.5 million tons annually of high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for use in the steel industry.
 
Anyone interested in obtaining further insights into the third quarter's results can monitor the Company's quarterly teleconference call, which is scheduled for 4:00 p.m. ET on November 3, 2005. It can be accessed through Sunoco's Web site - www.SunocoInc.com. It is suggested that you visit the site prior to the teleconference to ensure that you have downloaded any necessary software.
 
Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although Sunoco believes that the assumptions underlying these statements are reasonable, investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and necessarily involve risks that may affect Sunoco's business prospects and performance causing actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the foregoing release. Such risks and uncertainties include, by way of example and not of limitation: general business and economic conditions; competitive products and pricing; effects of weather conditions and natural disasters on the Company's operating facilities and on product supply and demand; changes in refining, marketing and chemical margins; variation in petroleum-based commodity prices and availability of crude oil and feedstock supply or transportation; effects of transportation disruptions; changes in the price differentials between light-sweet and heavy-sour crude oils; fluctuations in supply of feedstocks and demand for products manufactured; changes in product specifications; availability and pricing of oxygenates; phase-outs or restrictions on the use of MTBE; changes in operating conditions and costs; changes in the expected level of environmental capital, operating or remediation expenditures; age of, and changes in the reliability, efficiency and capacity of, the Company's or a third party's operating facilities; potential equipment malfunction; potential labor-relations problems; the legislative and regulatory environment; ability to identify acquisitions, execute them under favorable terms and integrate them into the Company's existing businesses; ability to enter
into joint ventures and other similar arrangements under favorable terms; delays and/or costs related to plant construction, improvements or repairs and the issuance of applicable permits; nonperformance by or disputes with major customers, suppliers, dealers, distributors or other business partners; changes in financial markets impacting pension expense and funding requirements; political and economic conditions, including the impact of potential terrorist acts and international hostilities; and changes in the status of, or initiation of new, litigation and/or arbitration proceedings. These and other applicable risks and uncertainties have been described more fully in Sunoco's Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 3, 2005 and in other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Sunoco undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this release, whether as a result of new information or future events.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



