FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20051206131459.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) At a meeting held on November 30, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Sunoco, Inc. Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee"), approved base salary increases and annual guideline incentive bonus opportunity under the Executive Incentive Plan for the Company's named executive officers and other executive officers, effective January 1, 2006.
 
Also at the November 30, 2005 meeting, the Compensation Committee approved awards for certain key employees, including the named executive officers under the Sunoco, Inc. Long-Term Performance Enhancement Plan II ("LTPEP II"). Two separate awards were made: (1) stock options granted at a per share exercise price of $77.54, and (2) performance-based common stock units.
 
The Compensation Committee also established the performance goals for the performance-based common stock units. Payout of the performance-based common stock units will depend upon the achievement by the Company of certain performance levels based on two equally weighted performance measures relative to Sunoco's peer group  total shareholder return and earnings per share growth, which is measured against the prior three-year period. A copy of the LTPEP II is filed as Exhibit 10.4 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. Copies of form agreements under the LTPEP II are filed as Exhibits 10.5, 10.6, 10.7 and 10.8 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
The following is a summary of the 2006 base salary, annual guideline incentive bonus opportunity, and the long-term incentive awards (stock options and performance-based common stock units) of the named executive officers of Sunoco, Inc. that were approved by the Compensation Committee:
 
(b) At meetings held on November 30, 2005 and December 1, 2005, the Compensation Committee, the Governance Committee and the Board of Directors of Sunoco, as appropriate, approved amendments to certain of the Company's compensation and benefit plans for officers and directors in order to (1) conform to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Act') which changed the income tax treatment of nonqualified deferred compensation and imposed new requirements on both the terms and operations of the plans under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ("Section 409A") and (2) simplify plan administration. The amendments generally are effective January 1, 2005.
 
The amendments approved by the Compensation Committee include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The amendments approved by the Governance Committee include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
The amendments approved by the Board of Directors include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Also at its December 1, 2005, the Board of Director approved a new plan, the Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan II, effective January 1, 2005, which conforms to the Act and Section 409A. The new plan is:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
As used in this Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings herein specified:
 
1.1 - shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board of Directors
 
1.2 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 1.4(c).
Business Combination
 
1.3 - shall mean the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
CEO
 
1.4 - - shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events:
Change in Control
 
(a) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (1) the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (2) the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); , , that, for purposes of this Section (a), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (A) any acquisition directly from the Company, (B) any acquisition by the Company, (C) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any company controlled by, controlling or under common control with the Company, or (D) any acquisition by any entity pursuant to a transaction that complies with Sections (c)(1), (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this definition;
provided
however
 
(b) Individuals who, as of September 6, 2001, constitute the Board of Directors (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors; , , that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board of Directors;
provided
however
 
(c) Consummation of a reorganization, merger, statutory share exchange or consolidation or similar corporate transaction involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries, a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or the acquisition
 
of assets or stock of another entity by the Company or any of its subsidiaries (each, a "Business Combination"), in each case unless, following such Business Combination, (1) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities that were the beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of the then-outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation that, as a result of such transaction, owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (2) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of such corporation, except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (3) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board of Directors providing for such Business Combination; or
 
(d) Approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
1.5 - shall mean the incentive award payable in cash following a Change in Control, as such award is described herein at Article VII.
CIC Incentive Award
 
1.6 - shall mean a Participant described in any of the following:
CIC Participant
 
(a) a Participant who was employed by the Company on the date of the Change in Control and who does not incur a termination for Just Cause before payment of the CIC Incentive Award;
 
(b) a Participant who was, immediately before the Change in Control, eligible for a prorated award under the provisions of Section 5.2;
 
(c) a Participant who is a participant in the Company's Special Executive Severance Plan and incurs a "Qualifying Termination" as defined in such plan before the Change in Control;
 
(d) a Participant whose employment was terminated by the Company (other than for Just Cause) before the Change in Control, or a Participant who terminated employment for one of the reasons set forth in Sections 1.6(d)(1), (2), and (3) below, if the Participant can demonstrate that such termination or circumstance in Section 1.6(d)(1), (2), or (3) below leading to the termination was at the request of a third party with which the Company had entered into negotiations or an agreement with regard to a Change in Control or otherwise occurred in connection with a Change in Control; , that in either such case, the Change in Control actually occurs within one (1) year following the Employment Termination Date:
provided, however
 
(1) the assignment to such Participant of any duties inconsistent in a way significantly adverse to such Participant, with such Participant's positions, duties, responsibilities and status with the Company immediately prior to the Change in Control, or a significant reduction in the duties and responsibilities held by the Participant immediately prior to the Change in Control, in each case except in connection with such Participant's termination of employment by the Company for Just Cause; or
 
(2) a reduction by the Company in the Participant's combined annual base salary and guideline (target) bonus as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control; or
 
(3) the Company requires the Participant to be based anywhere other than the Participant's present work location or a location within thirty-five (35) miles from the present location; or the Company requires the Participant to travel on Company business to an extent substantially more burdensome than such Participant's travel obligations during the period of twelve (12) consecutive months immediately preceding the Change in Control;
 
that in the case of a Participant whose employment terminates under this subparagraph (d), such Participant shall not be deemed to be a CIC Participant on the basis of such termination unless the termination occurs within 120 days after the occurrence of the event or events constituting the reason for the termination.
provided, however,
 
1.7 - shall mean the portion of the Plan Year from January 1 to the date of the occurrence of a Change in Control.
CIC Short Period
 
1.8 - shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
1.9 - shall mean the committee appointed to administer this Plan by the Board of Directors of the Company, as constituted from time to time. The Committee shall consist of at least two (2) members of the Board of Directors, each of whom shall meet applicable requirements set forth in the pertinent regulations under Section 16 of the Exchange Act and Section 162(m) of the Code.
Committee
 
1.10 - shall mean Sunoco, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation. The term "Company" shall include any successor to Sunoco, Inc., any subsidiary or affiliate which has adopted the Plan, or a corporation succeeding to the business of Sunoco, Inc., or any subsidiary or affiliate, by merger, consolidation or liquidation or purchase of assets or stock or similar transaction.
Company
 
1.11 - shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
1.12 - shall mean any individual who has been designated by the Company as a member of the Company's Executive Resources group. Generally, such group shall include employees in Grades 14 and above and all other employees subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
Executive Resources Employee
 
1.13 - shall mean the senior executives who have significant operating and/or strategic responsibilities for the Company as designated by the CEO.
Executive Team
 
1.14 - shall mean, as of any date and in respect of any share of Sunoco Stock, the opening price on such date of a share of Sunoco Stock (which price shall be the closing price on the previous trading day of a share of Sunoco Stock as published in the Wall Street Journal under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions" or any other publication selected by the Committee). If there is no sale of shares of Sunoco Stock on the New York Stock Exchange for more than ten (10) days immediately preceding such date, or if deemed appropriate by the Committee for any other reason, the Fair Market Value of the shares of Sunoco Stock shall be as determined by the Committee in such other manner as it may deem appropriate. In no event shall the Fair Market Value of any share of Sunoco Stock be less than its par value.
Fair Market Value
 
1.15 - shall mean the result of the individual Participant's actual annualized salary multiplied by the guideline percentage, as determined under Article III.
Guideline Incentive Award
 
1.16 - shall mean the award granted to a Participant.
Incentive Award
 
1.17 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 1.4(b).
Incumbent Board
 
1.18 - shall mean, for any Participant who is a participant in the Company's Special Executive Severance Plan, "Just Cause" as defined in such plan, and for any other Participant:
Just Cause
 
(a) the willful and continued failure of the Participant to perform substantially the
 
Participant's duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness or following notice of employment termination by the Participant pursuant to Section 1.6(c), (d) or (e)), after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Participant by the Board of Directors or any employee of the Company with supervisory authority over the Participant that specifically identifies the manner in which the Board of Directors or such supervising employee believes that the Participant has not substantially performed the Participant's duties, or
 
(b) the willful engaging by the Participant in illegal conduct or gross misconduct that is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company.
 
1.19 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 1.4(a).
Outstanding Company Common Stock
 
1.20 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 1.4(a).
Outstanding Company Voting Securities
 
1.21 - shall mean a person participating or eligible to participate in the Plan, as determined under Section 2.4.
Participant
 
1.22 - shall mean:
Performance Factor
 
(a) for a Participant who is one of the top five most highly compensated officers of the Company during the applicable Plan Year: the various payout percentages related to the attainment levels of one or more Performance Goals, as determined by the Committee; and
 
(b) for a Participant who is not one of the top five most highly compensated officers of the Company during the applicable Plan Year: such payout percentages related to the attainment levels of one or more Performance Goals, as determined by the CEO, or any authorized delegate thereof.
 
1.23 - shall mean:
Performance Goals
 
(a) for a Participant who is one of the top five most highly compensated officers of the Company during the applicable Plan Year: the objective financial or operating goals established by the Committee in accordance with Section 162(m) of the Code. Such Performance Goals may include specific targeted amounts of, or changes in, revenues; expenses; net income; operating income; equity; return on equity, assets or capital employed; working capital; shareholder return; operating capacity utilized; production or sales volumes; throughput; or other objective criteria; and
 
(b) for a Participant who is not one of the top five most highly compensated officers of the Company during the applicable Plan Year: such annual financial, operating, or other goals and objectives as may be established from time to time in the sole discretion of the CEO, or any authorized delegate thereof.
 
Such goals may be applicable to the Company as a whole, to one or more of the Company's business units or teams, or to an individual Participant in the Plan. Performance Goals may be applied in total or on a per share, per barrel or percentage basis and on an absolute basis or relative to other companies, industries or indices or any combination thereof, as determined by the Committee (in the case of Performance Goals established by the Committee with respect to a Participant who is one of the top five most highly compensated officers of the Company during the applicable Plan Year) or by the CEO, or any authorized delegate thereof (in the case of a Participant who is not one of the top five most highly compensated officers of the Company during the applicable Plan Year).
 
1.24 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 1.4(a).
Person
 
1.25 - shall mean the Company's Executive Incentive Plan as amended and restated effective as of September 6, 2001.
Plan
 
1.26 - shall mean the performance (calendar) year.
Plan Year
 
1.27 - shall mean an amount equal to the Incentive Award otherwise payable to a Participant for the Plan Year in which the Participant's termination of employment with the Company (other than for Just Cause) is effective, multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of full and partial months in the applicable Plan Year through the date of termination of such Participant's employment, and the denominator of which is twelve (12).
Pro-rated Bonus Award
 
1.28 - shall mean the common stock of Sunoco, Inc.
Sunoco Stock
 
 
 
2.1 . The purpose of the Executive Incentive Plan is to promote the achievement of the Company's short-term, targeted business objectives by providing competitive incentive reward opportunities to those employees who can significantly impact the Company's performance. The Plan enhances the Company's ability to attract, develop and motivate individuals as members of a
Purpose
 
talented management team while aligning their interest with those of the shareholders. As described herein, the awards made under the Plan may recognize Company, business unit, team and/or individual performance.
 
2.2 . This amendment and restatement of the Plan is effective September 6, 2001.
Effective Date
 
2.3 . The Committee shall have full power and authority to construe, interpret and administer the Plan and to make rules and regulations subject to the provisions of the Plan. All decisions, actions, determinations or interpretations of the Committee shall be made in its sole discretion and shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties.
Administration
 
2.4 . Participation in the Plan is limited to Executive Resources Employees and other employees evaluated in positions with Grades 11, 12 and 13 at any time during the Plan Year.
Eligibility and Participation
 
 
 
3.1 . Within the time prescribed by Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee will establish, in writing, for the applicable Plan Year, the guideline incentive opportunities for Participants as a percentage of actual salary in effect on the last day of the final pay period of the current Plan Year.
Guideline Percentages
 
3.2 . The Guideline Incentive Award is calculated for each Participant by multiplying the individual Participant's actual salary range in effect on the last day of the final pay period of the Current Plan Year by the applicable guideline percentage established by the Committee.
Guideline Incentive Award
 
Actual incentive awards to individual Participants may be greater or lesser than this guideline depending on Company and, as necessary, business unit, team and/or individual Participant performance.
 
 
 
4.1 .
Performance Goals
 
(a) For a Participant who is one of the top five most highly compensated officers of the Company during the applicable Plan Year, the amount of any Incentive Award earned will be based upon the attainment of
Five Most Highly Compensated Officers:
 
Performance Goals established by the Committee in accordance with Section 162(m) of the Code. Within the time prescribed by Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee will establish, in writing, the weighted Performance Goals and related Performance Factors for various goal achievement levels for the applicable Plan Year, and will determine the appropriate methodology for including Company, business unit, team and/or individual performance in the Incentive Award computations for such year.
 
In establishing the weighted Performance Goals, the Committee shall take the necessary steps to insure that the ability to achieve the pre-established goals is uncertain at the time the goals are set. The established written Performance Goals, assigned weights, and Performance Factors shall be written in terms of an objective formula, whereby any third party having knowledge of the relevant Company, business unit, team and/or individual performance results could calculate the amount to be paid. Such Performance Goals may vary by Participant and by award.
 
(1) The Committee, in its discretion (and within the time prescribed by Section 162(m) of the Code), may adjust or modify the calculation of Performance Goals to prevent dilution or enlargement of the rights of Participants:
Adjustment or Modification of Performance Goals.
 
(i) in the event of, in recognition of, or in anticipation of, any unanticipated, unusual nonrecurring or extraordinary corporate item, transaction, event, or development; or
 
(ii) in response to, or in anticipation of, changes in applicable laws, regulations, accounting principles, or business conditions.
 
Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, if any provision of the Plan or any Incentive Award granted to an individual who is one of the top five most highly compensated officers of the Company hereunder would not comply with Section 162(m) of the Code, such provision or Incentive Award shall be construed or deemed amended to conform to Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
(2) . After the end of each Plan Year, the Committee will determine:
Determination of Performance Factor
 
(i) the extent to which the Company, business unit and/or team performance goals have been met; and
 
(ii) the Company, business unit and/or team Performance Factor (each of which may vary from 0% to 200%), appropriate to the level of performance achieved with respect to each Performance Goal.
 
(b) For a Participant who is not one of the top five most highly compensated officers of the Company during the applicable Plan Year, the amount of any Incentive Award earned will be based upon the attainment of Performance Goals established as provided in this Section 4.1(b). For each Plan Year, the CEO, and if so delegated, other members of the Executive Team will determine the appropriate methodology for including Company, business unit, team and individual performance in the Incentive Award computations for such year. While Company Performance will always be included in the computation, the other factors may or may not be included as deemed appropriate by the Executive Team. The applicable Performance Factors shall be determined as follows:
Other Participants:
 
(1) . For each Plan Year, the Compensation Committee shall establish annual Performance Goal(s) for the Company, based on one or more criteria that the Compensation Committee, in its sole discretion, determines to be applicable.
Determination of Performance Factor Applicable to Company
 
After the end of each calendar year, the Compensation Committee will determine the extent to which such Performance Goals have been met and the appropriate Company Performance Factor, from 0% to 200%, that is appropriate with the varying levels of performance for each goal.
 
(2) . The CEO, and if so delegated, other members of the Executive Team shall determine the annual business unit Performance Goal(s) and the applicable levels of performance based on one or more factors. Business unit leaders will establish annual Performance Goal(s) for any teams within their respective business units.
Determination of Business Unit and Team Performance Factors
 
After the end of each calendar year, the CEO, and if so delegated, other members of the Executive Team will determine the extent to which the business unit Performance Goals have been met and the business unit Performance Factor, from 0% to 200%, that is appropriate with the varying levels of performance for each goal. Business unit leaders will similarly evaluate the performance of any teams to determine the appropriate Performance Factor applicable to such team.
 
4.2 . Incentive Awards under this Plan may be based, in whole or in part, upon the attainment of individual performance objectives or targets. For a Participant who is one of the top five most highly compensated officers of the Company during the applicable Plan Year, the Committee will establish, in writing, individual performance objectives or targets in accordance with Section 162(m) of the Code and Section 4.1 hereof. For all other Participants, the recommended individual performance assessment process is briefly outlined as follows:
Individual Performance Factors
 
(a) Prior to the beginning of each Plan Year or other appropriate time, the Participant and his or her manager will agree on individual performance targets or objectives (which may be related to the Participant's collaboration on a work team) to be attained during the Plan Year.
 
(b) Progress toward attainment of such individual targets or objectives will be formally reviewed on a periodic basis.
 
(c) At the end of the year, the manager will assess the degree to which the individual performance targets or objectives have been achieved, keeping in mind environmental or circumstantial changes that may have affected the original targets or objectives. Specifically, consideration should be given to:
 
(1) level of contributions relative to peers.
 
(2) degree of difficulty of performance targets.
 
(3) reaction to unanticipated changes in the business environment.
 
(4) unplanned contributions.
 
(5) team performance, as appropriate.
 
(d) While the level of individual performance for the Plan should be based primarily on annual targets and objectives, the performance factors utilized for this program should be consistent with appraisals used for the purposes of salary administration as updated to reflect performance since the last appraisal.
 
(e) The performance appraisal should be documented in such a way as to identify the performance targets and objectives, the assessment of individual performance against such targets and objectives, and any other significant information to support the recommendation.
 
(f) The Participant's individual performance factor should be determined based upon the individual performance assessment as outlined below:
 
 
(g) The Participant's individual performance assessment will be determined by his or her manager and approved by the appropriate member of the Executive Team and, where appropriate, the CEO.
 
 
 
5.1 . Provided that no Change in Control of the Company has occurred, if a Participant voluntarily terminates his or her employment with the Company (for any reason other than retirement, death, permanent disability, approved leave of absence) prior to December 31 of any Plan Year, such Participant will not receive payment of any Incentive Award for such Plan Year. Likewise, a Participant will not receive payment of any Incentive Award for a particular Plan Year if no Change in Control has occurred and the Participant's employment with the Company is terminated for Just Cause before March 15 of the succeeding calendar year.
Forfeiture
 
5.2 . A Pro-rated Bonus Award, reflecting participation for a portion of the Plan Year, will be paid to any Participant whose employment status changed during the year as a result of death or permanent disability (as determined by the Committee), or due to retirement, approved leave of absence, or termination at the Company's request (other than for Just Cause). New hires and part-time employees also will receive a Pro-rated Bonus Award. Unless otherwise required by applicable law, any Pro-rated Bonus Award payable hereunder will be paid on the date when Incentive Awards are otherwise payable as provided in the Plan.
Proration
 
 
 
6.1 .
Timing and Form of Payment
 
(a) . Prior to the payment of any Incentive Award under this Plan, the Committee will certify in writing that the applicable Performance Goals, and any other material terms or conditions of such award, have been satisfied. In making this certification, the Committee will be entitled to rely upon an appropriate officer's certificate from the Company's Chief Financial Officer. Upon approval by the Committee of the individual Incentive Awards for the top five most highly compensated officers of the Company and the aggregate amount of all Incentive Awards for the Plan Year, and subject to Section 6.2 hereof, payment of the individual awards will be made in cash less the withholding of appropriate taxes. Payment will be made not later than March 15th of the calendar year following each Plan Year.
Certification in Writing
 
(b) . The Committee will have the discretion, by Participant and by grant, to reduce (but not to increase) some or all of the amount of any Incentive Award that would otherwise be payable by reason of the satisfaction of the Performance Goals. In making any such determination, the Committee is authorized to take into account any such factor or factors it determines are appropriate, including but not limited to Company, business unit and individual performance; the exercise of such negative discretion with respect to one executive may not be used to increase the amount of any award otherwise payable to another executive.
Negative Discretion
provided, however,
 
6.2 . In the sole discretion of the Committee, all or a portion of each Participant's Incentive Award may be paid in shares of Sunoco Stock, all or a portion of which may be subject to certain restrictions for failure to meet applicable minimum stock ownership guidelines, or otherwise.
Awards of Sunoco Stock
 
(a) For a Participant subject to minimum stock ownership guidelines (as established from time to time by the Committee or the Company), but failing to meet the applicable personal ownership requirement within the prescribed period, the Committee may award shares of Sunoco Stock, from the treasury of the Company, subject to appropriate restrictions on sale, exchange, transfer, pledge, hypothecation, gift or other disposition.
 
(b) The number of shares of Sunoco Stock to be issued from the Company's treasury pursuant to this Section 6.2 shall be determined by dividing:
 
(1) the amount of the Incentive Award to be paid in Sunoco Stock; by
 
(2) the average Fair Market Value of Sunoco Stock during the ten (10) consecutive trading days immediately preceding the date on which the Incentive Award is to be paid.
 
(c) All tax withholding will be satisfied from that remaining portion of the Incentive Award paid in cash.
 
 
 
7.1 . The terms of this Article VII shall immediately become operative, without further action or consent by any person or entity, upon a Change in Control, and once operative shall supersede and control over any other provisions of this Plan.
Effect of Change in Control
 
7.2 . The CIC Incentive Award shall be payable in cash within thirty (30) days of after the occurrence of a Change in Control (or as soon as it is practicable to determine the appropriate Performance Factors under Subsection (a) below) to all CIC Participants. Such award shall be calculated according to the terms of the Plan, except as follows:
Acceleration
 
(a) The applicable Performance Factors shall be determined based upon performance of the Company, business unit and/or team, as the case may be, from January 1 through the end of the most recent quarter (prior to the Change in Control) for which the Company has reported its earnings to the public. Notwithstanding the methodology established by the Committee for the Plan Year, there shall be no adjustment for individual performance factors in the determination of the CIC Incentive Award. If a specified percentage of the Guideline Incentive Award was to be based upon individual performance, such percentage will be adjusted using the weighted average of the Performance Factors applicable to Company and, as necessary, business unit and/or team performance used to determine the non-individual performance components of the CIC Participant's award.
 
(b) The amount of the CIC Incentive Award shall be equal to the respective annual Guideline Incentive Award adjusted to reflect the Performance Factors applicable to Company and, as necessary, business unit and/or team performance (calculated in accordance with subsection (a) hereof), multiplied by the number of full and partial months
 
in the CIC Short Period divided by twelve (12). Such result shall be further adjusted to reflect participation for only a portion of the CIC Short Period in accordance with Section 5.2.
 
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 8.3 hereof, no action taken by the Committee or the Board of Directors after a Change in Control, or before, but in connection with, a Change in Control, may (1) terminate or reduce the CIC Incentive Award or prospective CIC Incentive Award payable to any Participant in connection with such Change in Control without the express written consent of such Participant, or (2) adversely affect a Participant's rights under Section 7.3 in connection with such Change in Control.
 
7.3 . The Company shall pay all reasonable legal fees and related expenses incurred by a Participant in seeking to obtain or enforce payment of the CIC Incentive Award to which such Participant may be entitled under the Plan after a Change in Control; that the Participant shall be required to repay any such amounts to the Company to the extent a court of competent jurisdiction issues a final and non-appealable order setting forth the determination that the position taken by the Participant was frivolous or advanced in bad faith.
Attorney's Fees
provided, however,
 
 
 
8.1 . In a meeting to be held not later than December 31st of each Plan Year, the Committee may determine, by appropriate resolution, an estimate of the amount of monies, if any, that should be set aside for the current Plan Year for payment to Participants in the following calendar year.
Funding of Plan
 
8.2 . Nothing in this Plan or in any agreement or other instrument executed pursuant thereto shall be construed as conferring upon any Participant the right to receive executive incentive compensation or to be continued in the employ of the Company and any rights conferred by this Plan may not be transferred, sold, assigned, pledged, anticipated or otherwise disposed of other than by will or intestate laws.
Construction
 
8.3 . This Plan may be amended at any time by the Committee and may be terminated in whole or in part at any time by the Board of Directors (except as set forth in Section 7.2(c)).
Amendment
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.1 - shall have the meaning set forth herein at Section 5.1.
95% Withdrawal
 
1.2 - shall have the meaning set forth herein at Section 1.4(c).
Business Combination
 
1.3 - shall mean the entry in a Deferred Bonus Account of a credit equal to One Dollar ($1.00).
Cash Unit
 
1.4 - shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events:
Change in Control
 
(a) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (1) the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (2) the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); , , that, for purposes of this Section (a), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (A) any acquisition directly from the Company, (B) any acquisition by the Company, (C) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any company controlled by, controlling or under common control with the Company, or (D) any acquisition by any entity pursuant to a transaction that complies with Sections (c)(1), (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this definition;
provided
however
 
(b) Individuals who, as of September 6, 2001, constitute the Board of Directors (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors; , , that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board of Directors;
provided
however
 
(c) Consummation of a reorganization, merger, statutory share exchange or consolidation or similar corporate transaction involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries, a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or the acquisition of assets or stock of another entity by the Company or any of its subsidiaries (each,
 
a "Business Combination"), in each case unless, following such Business Combination, (1) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities that were the beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of the then-outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation that, as a result of such transaction, owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (2) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of such corporation, except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (3) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board of Directors providing for such Business Combination; or
 
(d) Approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
1.5 - shall have the meaning set forth herein at Section 5.1.
Change in Control Election
 
1.6 - shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Sunoco, Inc.
Committee
 
1.7 - shall mean Sunoco, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation. The term "Company" shall include any successor to Sunoco, Inc., any subsidiary or affiliate which has adopted the Plan, or a corporation succeeding to the business of Sunoco, Inc., or any subsidiary or affiliate by merger, consolidation, liquidation or purchase of assets or stock or similar transaction.
Company
 
1.8 - shall mean, with respect to any Participant, the total amount of the Company's liability for payment of deferred compensation to the Participant under this Plan, including any accumulated Interest Equivalents and/or Dividend Equivalents.
Deferred Bonus Account
 
1.9 - shall mean the entry in a Participant's Deferred Bonus Account of a dividend credit with respect to a Share Unit, each Dividend Equivalent being equal to the dividend paid from time to time on a Share.
Dividend Equivalent
 
1.10 - shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
1.11 - shall mean any individual employed by the Company who has been designated by the Company as a member of the Company's executive resources group. Generally such group shall include employees in Grades 14-20 and all employees subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
Executive Resource Employee
 
1.12 - shall mean the Sunoco, Inc. Executive Incentive Plan. The Incentive Plan provides that the Board of Directors may pay bonuses annually, as additional compensation to such employees as the Board determines have principally contributed to the profitability of the Company.
Incentive Plan
 
1.13 - shall have the meaning set forth herein at Section 1.4(b).
Incumbent Board
 
1.14 - shall mean the entry in a Participant's Deferred Bonus Account of an interest credit with respect to a Cash Unit, compounded on the basis of the balance in the Participant's Deferred Bonus Account, applying the interest factor approved by the Committee each year for such purpose.
Interest Equivalent
 
1.15 - shall have the meaning set forth herein at Section 4.1.
Non-Cash Bonus
 
1.16 - shall have the meaning set forth herein at Section 1.4(a).
Outstanding Company Common Stock
 
1.17 - shall have the meaning set forth herein at Section 1.4(a).
Outstanding Company Voting Securities
 
1.18 - shall mean any Executive Resource Employee who meets the eligibility requirements of the Incentive Plan and who is participating in this Plan.
Participant
 
1.19 - shall mean, with respect to any Participant, that such Participant is eligible to receive benefits under the applicable long-term disability plan of such Participant's employer.
Permanent and Total Disability
 
1.20 - shall have the meaning set forth herein at Section 1.4(a).
Person
 
1.21 - shall mean the Deferred Compensation Plan set forth herein and as it may be amended from time to time.
Plan
 
1.22 - shall mean the date on which a Participant is retired in accordance with the applicable retirement plan, program, or policy of such Participant's employer.
Retirement
 
1.23 - shall mean a share of the Company's authorized voting Common Stock ($1.00 par value per share) and any share or shares of stock of the Company hereafter issued or issuable in substitution or exchange for each such share, except for the Company's Series A Preference Stock.
Share
 
1.24 - shall mean the entry in a Participant's Deferred Bonus Account of a credit equal to one Share.
Share Unit
 
1.25 - shall mean corporations in which the Company, directly or indirectly owns fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding voting stock.
Subsidiaries
 
 
 
2.1 . The Company has established this Deferred Compensation Plan to provide Executive Resource Employees who are participants in the Incentive Plan with the option to irrevocably defer the receipt of all or a portion of the bonus to which such participants would otherwise be entitled, subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.
Purpose
 
2.2 . Each of the following shall be credited to a Deferred Bonus Account established by the Company for each Participant:
Creation of Deferred Bonus Account
 
(a) any bonus amounts voluntarily deferred by the Participant pursuant to Article III (Deferral of Bonuses by Participant) hereof; and/or
 
(b) any Non-Cash Bonus amounts deferred in the discretion of the Committee pursuant to Article IV (Deferral of Bonuses by Committee) hereof.
 
Any bonus amounts voluntarily deferred by the Participant will be credited to a Participant's Deferred Bonus Account in the form of Cash Units or Share Units, in the discretion of the Participant, as set forth in the Plan. The deferral of any Non-Cash Bonus amounts caused by action of the Committee will be credited to a Participant's Deferred Bonus Account in the form of Cash Units or Share Units as the Committee, in its sole discretion, may decide in accordance with the Plan.
 
2.3 . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, no Executive Resource Employee may elect pursuant to Article III of the Plan to defer any portion of his or her bonus paid after December 31, 2004 under the Incentive Plan. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, no deferrals may be made by the Committee pursuant to Article IV of the Plan with respect to any bonus paid under the Incentive Plan after December 31, 2004. It is intended that all deferrals credited to Participants' Deferred Bonus Accounts before January 1, 2005 (including all Dividend
Cessation of Deferrals
 
Equivalents and Interest Equivalents credited with respect to such deferrals) not be subject to IRC Section 409A, and no action shall be taken that would constitute a material modification to a benefit or right under the Plan as existing on October 3, 2004, as set forth under Proposed Regulation 1.409A-6(a)(4), or other applicable guidance issued under IRC Section 409A.
 
 
 
3.1 . A Participant voluntarily may elect to defer, in the form of Cash Units or Share Units, all or a portion of his or her bonus to be paid under the Incentive Plan before January 1, 2005 by filing a written election with the Committee on forms prescribed by the Committee. Such election must include the following:
Participant's Election to Defer
 
(a) percentage of bonus to be deferred;
 
(b) the form of deferral, being either Cash Units, Share Units or a combination of the two and the percentage allocations of such;
 
(c) a designation of beneficiary as set forth in Article VI (Designation of Beneficiaries); and
 
(d) an irrevocable election of a method of payment as set forth in Section 3.10 hereof.
 
Any such voluntary election by the Participant shall apply only to bonuses for the year specified in the election.
 
3.2 . The amount of bonus to be deferred in any year shall be designated by the Participant as a percentage of such Participant's bonus in multiples of five percent (5%) but shall not be less than ten percent (10%).
Amount of Deferral
 
3.3 . A separate election to defer must be filed for each year and must be received by the Company no later than forty-five (45) days before the end of the year in which the bonus is earned. Any election by a Participant with respect to a bonus in a given year will not preclude a different action with respect to bonuses in subsequent years, consistent with the provisions of this Article III with respect to the giving of notice of deferral election.
Time of Election
 
3.4 . Share Units shall be credited to a Participant's Deferred Bonus Account at the time the bonus otherwise would have been paid had no election to defer been made. The number of Share Units to be credited to the Deferred Bonus Account shall be determined by dividing the portion of bonus to be deferred by the average closing price for Shares as published in the consolidated trading tables of the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the
Crediting Share Units
 
Committee for the ten (10) day period prior to the day on which the bonus otherwise would have been paid. Any fractional Share Units shall also be credited to a Participant's Deferred Bonus Account. Share Units shall not entitle any person to the rights of a shareholder.
 
3.5 . For Share Units, the Company shall credit the Participant's Deferred Bonus Account with Dividend Equivalents being equal to the dividends declared on the Company's Shares. The crediting shall occur as of the date on which said dividends are paid. The number of Share Units to be credited to the Deferred Bonus Account shall be calculated by dividing the Dividend Equivalents by the average closing price for Shares as published in the consolidated trading tables of the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the period of ten (10) trading days prior to the day on which the dividends are paid on the Company's Shares. Any fractional Share Units shall also be credited to a Participant's Deferred Bonus Account.
Crediting Dividend Equivalents
 
3.6 . Cash Units shall be credited to a Participant's Deferred Bonus Account at the time the bonus would otherwise have been paid had no election to defer been made.
Crediting Cash Units
 
3.7 . For Cash Units credited to a Participant's Deferred Bonus Account, the Company shall credit such Participant's Deferred Bonus Account on a quarterly basis with an Interest Equivalent.
Crediting Interest Equivalents
 
3.8 . Immediately upon termination of the Participant's employment with the Company, and so prior to the commencement of any payout or distribution of any amounts hereunder, the Participant may make a one-time election to convert to Cash Units all or a portion of the balance of Share Units in such Participant's Deferred Bonus Account. Any Share Units so converted to Cash Units as a result of this one-time conversion election shall be valued at the average closing price for Shares as published in the consolidated trading tables of the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the ten (10) day period immediately prior to such one-time conversion election.
Share Unit Conversion
 
3.9 . Except as provided in Article V ("Change in Control") hereof, all payments of a Participant's Deferred Bonus Account shall be made at, or shall commence on, the date selected by the Participant in accordance with the terms of this Article III.
Time of Payment
 
(a) The date of payment or distribution must be irrevocably specified by the Participant in his or her written notice of election. The Participant may elect to defer the receipt of all or a specified portion of such Participant's bonus to:
Election of Benefit Commencement Date.
 
(1) the first day of any calendar year provided such date is at least six (6) months after the end of the quarter in which the bonus is earned; or
 
(2) the first day of the calendar year following the date of:
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 3.9, and except as provided in Article V ("Change in Control") hereof, in no event shall any payment or distribution be made within six (6) months of the bonus being earned or awarded. The benefit commencement date may not be later than the third calendar year following the date of: (i) Participant's retirement, or (ii) termination of Participant's employment.
 
(b) At any time prior to the commencement of any payment or distribution of a Participant's Deferred Bonus Account, such Participant may request in writing to accelerate the receipt of all or a specified portion of such deferred bonus amounts to the first day of any calendar year; that such date is at least six (6) months after the end of the quarter in which the bonus is earned. Any such acceleration will be subject to a penalty equal to a five percent (5%) reduction in the balance of the Participant's Deferred Bonus Account, which shall be forfeited to the Company.
Acceleration of Benefit Commencement Date Prior to Payment.
provided, however,
 
3.10 . A Participant in this portion of the Deferred Compensation Plan shall have the option of:
Method of Payment
 
(a) selecting a lump-sum payment;
 
(b) selecting a series of approximately equivalent annual installments (adjusted as necessary to reflect Dividend Equivalents and/or Interest Equivalents accrued during the installment payout period) in such number of installments as the Participant shall specify (not exceeding twenty (20) installments); or
 
(c) not selecting a method of payment at the time the Form for Deferred Payment Election/Designation of Beneficiary is prepared. If the Participant does not select a method of payment, he or she must, at least twelve (12) months prior to the time the deferral amount is scheduled to be paid, notify the Company as to the specific method of payment which will be either in a lump sum or in approximately equivalent annual installments. Failure to provide appropriate notification to the Company will result in a lump sum payment on the deferral payment date.
 
Participant shall receive in cash all deferred compensation credited to such Participant's Deferred Bonus Account. Share Units credited to the Participant's Deferred Bonus Account shall be valued at the average closing price for Shares as published in the consolidated trading tables of the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the ten (10) day period prior to each new calendar year.
 
3.11 .
Subsequent Change in Method of Payment Election
 
(a) With the approval of the Committee, and at any time not later than twelve (12) months prior to the commencement of any payment or distribution of the amounts credited to the Participant's Deferred Bonus Account, a Participant in this portion of the Plan may file a written request with regard to the method of payment (a series of installments versus lump-sum payout), on a form prescribed by the Committee, which will revoke all such earlier or prior elections with regard to the method of payment (a series of installments versus lump-sum payout), and such new choice as to method of payment will be applied both to amounts previously credited to the Participant's current Deferred Bonus Account balance, as well as to amounts to be credited to such Deferred Bonus Account balance prospectively. Any such new or subsequent election that is made less than twelve (12) months prior to the commencement of any payment or distribution of the amounts credited to the Participant's Deferred Bonus Account, will be null and void, and the Participant's most recent preceding timely election will be reinstated.
Change in Method of Payment Prior to Commencement of Distribution or Payment.
i.e.,
i.e.,
 
(b) After payment or distribution of amounts credited to the Participant's Deferred Bonus Account has commenced, the Participant may not change the period of time for which such amounts are payable. However the Participant may convert installment payments to a lump sum distribution subject to a penalty equal to a five percent (5%) reduction in the balance of the Participant's Deferred Bonus Account, which shall be forfeited to the Company.
Change in Method of Payment Following Commencement of Distribution or Payment.
 
3.12 . Participant may request a modification in the payment terms hereunder only in the event of severe financial hardship and only to the extent reasonably necessary to eliminate the hardship. Such request shall specify in detail the grounds for the requested modification and shall be referred to the Committee. A qualifying severe financial hardship must be caused by accident, illness, or event beyond the control of the Participant. The decision of the Committee with respect to the requested modification shall be solely at the discretion of the Committee and in accordance with its evaluation of the exigencies of the situation. Such decision shall be binding on the Company and Participant.
Hardship Distribution
 
3.13 .
Distributions in 2005 under IRC Section 409A Transition Rules
 
(a) . In accordance with the transition guidance set forth in Section 18(c) of IRS Notice 2005-1, the Deferred Bonus Account of a Participant who on January 1, 2005 (i) was not employed by the Company, and (ii) was employed by a subsidiary or affiliate of the Company that has not adopted the Plan, shall be distributed to the Participant on or before December 31, 2005, and such Participant shall cease to participate in the Plan as of the date of such distribution.
Certain Participants Not Employed by the Company on January 1, 2005
 
(b) . In accordance with the transition guidance set forth in Section 20 of IRS Notice 2005-1, a Participant who elected pursuant to Section 3.1 of the Plan to defer all or a portion of his or her bonus awarded under the Incentive Plan with respect to calendar year 2004 and payable in 2005, may cancel such deferral election on or before December 31, 2005, in accordance with the provisions of Sections 20(a), (b) and (c) of IRS Notice 2005-1, and in the form and manner prescribed by the Committee, and the amount in the Participant's Deferred Bonus Account attributable to the cancelled deferral, including Dividend Equivalents and/or Interest Equivalents credited to the Participant's Deferred Bonus Account with respect to such cancelled deferral, shall be distributed to the Participant on or before December 31, 2005.
Revocation of Participant's Election to Defer for Bonus Awarded under Incentive Plan for Calendar Year 2004 and Paid in 2005
 
(c) . For Cash Units distributed pursuant to this Section 3.13 on a date other than the end of a calendar quarter, Interest Equivalents shall be credited to such Participant's Deferred Bonus Account on a pro rata basis based on the number of calendar days the Cash Units were in the Participant's Deferred Bonus Account for such calendar quarter compared to the total number of calendar days in such calendar quarter.
Crediting Interest Equivalents
 
(d) . Share Units credited to the Participant's Deferred Bonus Account shall be valued at the average closing price for Shares as published in the consolidated
Valuation of Share Units
 
trading tables of the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the period of ten (10) trading days prior to the distribution pursuant to this Section 3.13.
 
 
 
4.1 . Each year ending on or before December 31, 2004 in conjunction with the payment of any bonus to the Participant, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may cause to be credited to a Participant's Deferred Bonus Account in the form of either Cash Units or Share Units, a specified dollar amount representing all or a portion of such Participant's bonus for that year (the "Non-Cash Bonus").
Committee's Election to Defer
 
4.2 . Share Units shall be credited to a Participant's Deferred Bonus Account at the time the bonus would otherwise have been paid had no Committee action to defer been taken. The number of Share Units credited to the Participant's Deferred Bonus Account shall be determined by dividing the Non-Cash Bonus by the average closing price for Shares as published in the consolidated trading tables of the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the ten (10) day period prior to the date such bonus otherwise would have been paid had no Committee action been taken. Any fractional Share Units shall also be credited to such Participant's Deferred Bonus Account. Share Units shall not entitle any person to the rights of a stockholder.
Crediting Share Units
 
4.3 . The Company shall credit the Participant's Deferred Bonus Account with Dividend Equivalents being equal to the dividends declared on the Company's Shares. The crediting shall occur as of the date on which said dividends are paid. The number of Share Units to be credited to the Deferred Bonus Account shall be calculated by dividing the Dividend Equivalents by the average closing price for Shares as published in the consolidated trading tables of the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the period of ten (10) trading days prior to the day on which the dividends are paid on the Company's Shares. Any fractional Share Units shall also be credited to a Participant's Deferred Bonus Account.
Crediting Dividend Equivalents
 
4.4 . Cash Units shall be credited to a Participant's Deferred Bonus Account at the time the bonus otherwise would have been paid had no Committee action to defer been taken.
Crediting Cash Units
 
4.5 . For Cash Units credited to a Participant's Deferred Bonus Account, the Company shall credit such Participant's Deferred Bonus Account on a quarterly basis with an Interest Equivalent.
Crediting Interest Equivalents
 
4.6 . Immediately upon termination of the Participant's employment with the Company, and so prior to the commencement of any payout or distribution of any amounts hereunder, the Participant may make a one-time election to convert to Cash Units all or a portion of the balance of Share Units in such Participant's Deferred Bonus Account. Any Share Units so converted to Cash Units as a result of this one-time conversion election shall be valued at the average closing price for Shares as published in the consolidated trading tables of the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the ten (10) day period immediately prior to such one-time conversion election.
Share Unit Conversion
 
4.7 .
Time of Payment
 
(a) The Committee will specify in writing its election of the earliest date of payment or distribution, and such election shall remain effective until revoked in writing by the Committee. If the Committee elects a new date with regard to payment or distribution, such election will apply only prospectively to any additional Share Units and/or Cash Units to be credited to such Participant's Deferred Bonus Account by Committee action in accordance with this Article IV. If the Committee fails to designate a time of payment, payment shall commence on the first day of the calendar year following the termination of such Participant's employment. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 4.7, in no event, however, shall the payment date be later than the third calendar year following the date of: (i) Participant's retirement, or (ii) termination of Participant's employment.
Benefit Commencement Date Specified by Committee.
 
(b) At any time prior to the commencement of any payment or distribution of a Participant's Deferred Bonus Account, such Participant may request in writing to accelerate the receipt of all or a specified portion of such deferred bonus amounts to the first day of any calendar year; that such date is at least six (6) months after the end of the quarter in which the bonus is earned. Any such acceleration will be subject to a penalty equal to a five percent (5%) reduction in the balance of the Participant's Deferred Bonus Account, which shall be forfeited to the Company.
Acceleration of Benefit Commencement Date Prior to Payment.
provided, however,
 
4.8 . The Participant must select a method of payment at least twelve (12) months prior to the time the deferral amount is scheduled to be paid, by notifying the Company as to whether the method of payment will be either:
Method of Payment
 
(a) a lump sum payment; or
 
(b) a series of approximately equivalent annual installments (adjusted as necessary to reflect Dividend Equivalents accrued during the installment payout period), in such number of installments as the Participant shall specify (not exceeding twenty (20) installments).
 
If no election is made, payment or distribution of any amounts deferred by Committee action pursuant to this Article IV (together with the Dividend Equivalents and/or Interest Equivalents, as the case may be, accrued thereon) shall be made in a single lump sum on the earliest payment date permitted by the Committee as provided under Section 4.7 hereof. Share Units credited to the Participant's Deferred Bonus Account shall be valued at the average closing price for Shares as published in the consolidated trading tables of the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the ten (10) day period prior to each new calendar year.
 
4.9 .
Subsequent Change in Method of Payment Election
 
(a) With the approval of the Committee, and at any time not later than twelve (12) months prior to the commencement of any payment or distribution of the amounts credited to the Participant's Deferred Bonus Account, a Participant in this portion of the Plan may file a written request with regard to the method of payment (a series of installments versus lump-sum payout), on a form prescribed by the Committee, which will revoke all such earlier or prior elections with regard to the method of payment (a series of installments versus lump-sum payout), and such new choice as to method of payment will be applied both to amounts previously credited to the Participant's current Deferred Bonus Account balance, as well as to amounts to be credited to such Deferred Bonus Account balance prospectively. Any such new or subsequent election that is made less than twelve (12) months prior to the commencement of any payment or distribution of the amounts credited to the Participant's Deferred Bonus Account, will be null and void, and the Participant's most recent preceding timely election will be reinstated.
Change in Method of Payment Prior to Commencement of Distribution or Payment.
i.e.,
i.e.,
 
(b) After payment or distribution of amounts credited to the Participant's Deferred Bonus Account has commenced, the Participant may not change the period of time for which such amounts are payable. However the Participant may convert installment payments to a lump sum distribution subject to a penalty equal to a five percent (5%) reduction in the balance of the Participant's Deferred Bonus Account, which shall be forfeited to the Company.
Change in Method of Payment Following Commencement of Distribution or Payment.
 
 
 
5.1 . Anything to the contrary in this Plan notwithstanding, at any time a Participant may make an election (a "Change in Control Election") to receive, in a single lump sum payment, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, the balance of his or her Deferred Bonus Account, as of the valuation date immediately preceding the Change in Control. Any Change in Control Election or revocation of an existing Change in Control Election shall be null and void if a Change in Control occurs within 12 months after it is made, and the Participant's most recent preceding Change in Control Election, if timely made and not revoked at least 12 months before the Change in Control, shall remain in force. Each such election or revocation shall be in writing and in conformity with such rules as may be prescribed by the Committee. If no Change in Control Election is in force upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, from the date of such Change in Control and for twelve (12) months thereafter, each Participant, whether or not he or she is still an employee of the Company, shall have the right to withdraw, in a single lump-sum cash payment, an amount equal to ninety-five percent (95%) of the balance of his or her Deferred Bonus Account (a "95% Withdrawal"), as of the valuation date immediately preceding the date of withdrawal; provided, however, that if this option is exercised, such Participant will forfeit to the Company the remaining five percent (5%) of the balance of each such account (as of the valuation date immediately preceding the date of withdrawal) from which the funds are withdrawn as a penalty. Payments pursuant to a 95% Withdrawal shall be made as soon as practicable, but no later than thirty (30) days after the Participant notifies the Committee in writing that he/she is exercising his/her right to undertake a 95% Withdrawal.
Effect of Change in Control on Payment
 
5.2 . On or after a Change in Control, or before, but in connection with, a Change in Control, no action, including by way of example and not of limitation, the amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan, shall be taken which would adversely affect the rights of any Participant or the operation of this Article V with respect to the balance in the Participant's Accounts immediately before such action.
Amendment in Connection with Change in Control
 
5.3 . The Company shall pay all legal fees and related expenses incurred by a Participant in seeking to obtain or enforce any payment, benefit or right such Participant may be entitled to under the plan after a Change in Control. The Participant shall reimburse the Company for such fees and expenses at such time as a court of competent jurisdiction, or another
Attorney's Fees
 
independent third party having similar authority, determines that the Participant's claim was frivolously brought without reasonable expectation of success on the merits thereof.
 
 
 
The Participant shall name a beneficiary to receive any payments due such Participant at the time of death, with the right to change such beneficiary at any time. In case of a failure of designation or the death of the designated beneficiary without a designated successor, distribution shall be made to the person or persons designated as beneficiary in the designation most recently filed under the Sunoco, Inc. Capital Accumulation Plan, or if no such designation has been made or the Participant is not participating in such plan, the surviving spouse of a deceased Participant, or, if there is no surviving spouse, the children of the Participant in equal shares (the share of any child who predeceases the Participant to go in equal shares to the issue of such deceased child), or if there is no surviving spouse, child, or issue of such children, the estate of the Participant. No designation of beneficiaries shall be valid unless in writing signed by the Participant, dated and filed with the Company. Upon the Participant's death, any balance in the Participant's Deferred Bonus Account is payable under the method elected by the Participant or in such other manner as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion.
 
 
 
7.1 . All payments of deferred bonuses shall be paid in cash from the general funds of the Company and the Company shall be under no obligation to segregate any assets in connection with the maintenance of the Deferred Bonus Account, nor shall anything contained in this Plan nor any action taken pursuant to the Plan create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and Participant. Title to the beneficial ownership of any assets, whether cash or investments, which the Company may designate to pay the amount credited to the Deferred Bonus Account shall at all times remain in the Company and Participant shall not have any property interest whatsoever in any specific assets of the Company. Participant's interest in the Deferred Bonus Account shall be limited to the right to receive payments pursuant to the terms of this Plan and such rights to receive shall be no greater than the right of any other unsecured general creditor of the Company.
Source of Payments
 
7.2 . Participant shall not have the right to sell, assign, transfer or otherwise convey or encumber in whole or in part the right to receive any payment under this Plan except in accordance with Article VI (Designation of Beneficiaries) hereof.
Nonalienation of Benefits
 
7.3 . The terms and conditions of this Plan shall be binding upon the heirs, beneficiaries, and other successors in interest of Participant to the same extent that said terms and conditions are binding upon the Participant. This Plan shall not be construed in any way as an employment contract requiring the Company or Participant to continue the employment relation.
Acceptance of Terms
 
7.4 . The Plan shall be administered by the Committee which may make such rules and regulations and establish such procedures for the administration of this Plan as it deems appropriate. In the event of any dispute or disagreements as to the interpretation of this Plan or of any rules, regulation, or procedure or as to any questioned right or obligation arising from or related to this Plan, the decision of the Committee shall be final and binding upon all persons.
Administration of the Plan
 
7.5 . The number of Share Units in the Participant's Deferred Bonus Account shall be appropriately adjusted by the Committee in the event of changes in the Company's outstanding common stock by reason of a stock dividend or distribution, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or the like, and such adjustments shall be conclusive.
Adjustments for Changes in Capitalization
 
7.6 . The Plan may be terminated at any time by the Board of Directors of Sunoco, Inc., and may be amended at any time by the Committee provided, however, that no such amendment or termination shall adversely affect the rights of Participants or their beneficiaries with respect to amounts credited to Deferred Bonus Accounts prior to such amendment or termination, without the written consent of the Participant.
Termination and Amendment
 
7.7 . To be effective, all notices, requests and demands to or upon the Company or the Participant, as the case may be, shall be in writing, by facsimile, by overnight courier or by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid and return receipt requested, and shall be deemed to have been duly given or made upon:
Notices
 
(a) delivery by hand;
 
(b) one business day after being sent by overnight courier;
 
(c) four business days after being deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid; or
 
(d) in the case of transmission by facsimile, when confirmation of receipt is obtained.
 
Such communications shall be addressed and directed as listed below (or to such other address or recipient for a party as may be hereafter notified by such party hereunder), to the Company or the Participant, respectively:
 
If to the Company, to:
 
SUNOCO, INC.
Human Resources Department  14
th
Floor
1735 Market Street STE LL
Philadelphia, PA 19103-7583
Attn: Compensation Department
FAX: (215) 246-8498
Confirm: (215) 246-8392
 
If to Participant, to:
 
The most recent address for Participant appearing in the books and records of the Company.
 
7.8 . The captions and headings used for the various Articles and Sections of this Plan are for convenience of reference only and are not to affect the construction hereof or be taken into consideration in the interpretation hereof.
Construction
 
7.9 . In the case of any one or more of the provisions contained in this Plan shall be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any respect the remaining provisions shall be construed in order to effectuate the purposes hereof and the validity, legality, and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
 
7.10 . This Plan shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Governing Law
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, no Executive Resource Employee may elect under Article III of the Plan to defer any portion of his or her bonus paid after December 31, 2004 under the Incentive Plan and no deferrals may be made by the Committee pursuant to Article IV of the Plan with respect to any bonus paid under the Incentive Plan after December 31, 2004. It is intended that all deferrals credited to Participants' Deferred Bonus Accounts before January 1, 2005 (including all Dividend Equivalents and Interest Equivalents credited with respect to such deferrals) not be subject to IRC Section 409A, and no action shall be taken that would constitute a material modification to a benefit or right under the Plan as existing on October 3, 2004, as set forth under Proposed Regulation 1.409A-6(a)(4), or such other guidance as may be applicable under IRC Section 409A.
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
 
 
Exhibit 10.3
 
 
 
Section 1.1 "Benefit" or "Benefits" shall mean any or all of the benefits that a Participant is entitled to receive pursuant to Article IV of the Plan.
 
Section 1.2 "Board of Directors" shall mean the Board of Directors of Sunoco, Inc. or any successor thereto.
 
Section 1.3 "Chief Executive Officer" shall mean the individual serving as the Chief Executive Officer of Sunoco, Inc. as of the date of reference.
 
Section 1.4 "Committee" shall mean the administrative committee designated pursuant to Article VI of the Plan to administer the Plan in accordance with its terms.
 
Section 1.5 "Company" shall mean Sunoco, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation. The term "Company" shall include any successor to Sunoco, Inc., any subsidiary or affiliate which has adopted the Plan, or a corporation succeeding to the business of Sunoco, Inc., or any subsidiary or affiliate, by merger, consolidation or liquidation or purchase of assets or stock or similar transaction.
 
Section 1.6 "Company Service" shall mean, for purposes of determining Benefits available to any Participant in this Plan, the total aggregate recorded length of such Participant's service with: Sunoco, Inc.; any subsidiary or affiliate of Sunoco, Inc. (whether by by merger, consolidation or liquidation or purchase of assets or stock or similar transaction) which has adopted the Plan; and/or any corporation succeeding to the business of Sunoco, Inc.
 
Company Service shall commence with the Participant's initial date of employment with the Company, and shall end with such Participant's death, retirement, or termination for any reason. Company Service also shall include:
 
(a) all periods of approved leave of absence (civil, family, medical, military, or Olympic; , , that the Participant returns to work within the prescribed time following the leave;
provided
however
 
(b) any break in service of thirty (30) days or less; and
 
(c) any service credited under applicable Company policies with respect to the length of a Participant's employment by any non-affiliated entity that is subsequently acquired by, and becomes a part of, the Company's operations.
 
Section 1.7 "Compensation Committee" shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
Section 1.8 "Disability" shall mean any illness, injury or incapacity of such duration and type as to render a Participant eligible to receive long-term disability benefits under the applicable broad-based long-term disability program of the Company.
 
Section 1.9 "Employment Termination Date" shall mean the date on which the employment relationship between the Participant and the Company is terminated.
 
Section 1.10 "ERISA" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
 
Section 1.11 "Executive Resource Employee" shall mean any individual employed by the Company who has been designated by the Company as a member of the Company's executive resources group. Generally, such group shall include employees in Grades 14-20 and all employees subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Section 1.12 "Just Cause" shall mean:
 
(a) the willful and continued failure of the Participant to perform substantially the Participant's duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness), after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Participant by the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer that specifically identifies the manner in which the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer believes that the Participant has not substantially performed the Participant's duties, or
 
(b) the willful engaging by the Participant in illegal conduct or gross misconduct that is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company.
 
For purposes of this Section 1.12, no act, or failure to act, on the part of the Participant shall be considered "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Participant in bad faith or without reasonable belief that the Participant's action or omission was in the best interests of the Company. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board or upon the instructions of the Chief Executive Officer or a senior officer of the Company or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by the Participant in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. The cessation of employment of the Participant shall not be deemed to be for Just Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to the Participant a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the entire membership of the Board of Directors (excluding the Participant, if the Participant is a member of the Board of Directors) at a meeting of the Board of Directors (after reasonable notice is provided to the Participant and the Participant is given an opportunity, together with counsel for the Participant, to be heard before the Board of Directors), finding that, in the good faith opinion
 
of the Board of Directors, the Participant is guilty of the conduct described in Section 1.12(a) or 1.12(b), and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.
 
Section 1.13 "Participant" shall mean any Executive Resource Employee; provided, however, that any Executive Resource Employee who has an employment contract with the Company that provides severance benefits shall not be eligible to participate in the Plan while such contract is in effect except to the extent specifically provided in the contract.
 
Section 1.14 "Plan" shall mean the Sunoco, Inc. Executive Involuntary Severance Plan, as set forth herein, and as the same may from time to time be amended.
 
Section 1.15 "Plan Year" shall mean each fiscal year of the Company during which this Plan is in effect.
 
Section 1.16 "Salary Continuation Period" shall mean:
 
(a) six (6) weeks, in the case of a Participant who either has not executed the release described in Section 3.3 hereof, or who has revoked such a previously executed release; or
 
(b) in the case of a Participant that has executed and not revoked the release described in Section 3.3 hereof:
 
(1) one-hundred-four (104) weeks for the Company's Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, and any executive vice president;
 
(2) seventy-eight (78) weeks for each other Executive Resource Employee in Grade 17 or above; and
 
(3) fifty-two (52) weeks for each other Executive Resource Employee.
 
Section 1.17 "Weekly Compensation" shall mean the sum of each of the following items divided by 52:
 
(a) a Participant's annual base salary; and
 
(b) the applicable guideline (target) annual bonus amount in effect on his or her Employment Termination Date.
 
 
 
Section 2.1 . The Company maintains this Plan for the purpose of providing severance allowances to all Executive Resource Employees, whose employment is terminated for reasons other than fault of their own. The Plan shall be effective as of December 7, 2000.
Background
 
Section 2.2 . In recognition of their past service to the Company, this Plan is intended to alleviate, in part or in full, financial hardships which may be experienced by certain of those employees of the Company whose employment is terminated. In essence, benefits under the Plan are intended to be additional compensation for past services or the continuation of the specified fringe benefits for a transitional period. The amount or kind of benefit to be provided is to be based on the position of the Executive Resource Employee, the Executive Resource Employee's compensation and the fringe benefit programs applicable to him or her, at his or her Employment Termination Date. The Plan is not intended to be included in the definitions of "employee pension benefit plan" and "pension plan" as set forth under Section 3(2) of ERISA. Rather, this Plan is intended to meet the descriptive requirements of a plan constituting a "severance pay plan" within the meaning regulations published by the Secretary of Labor at Title 29, ,  2510.3-2(b).
Purpose of the Plan
Code of Federal Regulations
 
Section 2.3 . The Plan will continue until such time as the Board of Directors, or a committee thereof, delegated such responsibility, acting in its sole discretion, elects to modify, supersede or terminate it in accordance with the further provisions hereof.
Term of the Plan
 
 
 
Section 3.1 . In order to receive a Benefit under this Plan, a Participant's employment must have been terminated by the Company other than for Just Cause, death or Disability; , , that any Participant who is receiving benefits under the Sunoco, Inc. Special Executive Severance Plan shall not also be eligible to receive any Benefit under this Plan.
General Eligibility Requirement
provided
however
 
Section 3.2 . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, no Benefits shall be due hereunder in connection with the sale or other disposition by the Company of the capital stock or assets of any business unit, division, subsidiary, or other affiliate, if the Participant receives an offer of employment from the purchaser or other acquiror at a combined annual salary and guideline bonus at least equal to the annual salary and guideline bonus for his or her position with the Company immediately prior to such sale or other disposition.
Employment by Successor
 
Section 3.3 . Unless the Participant executes a full waiver and release of claims in a form satisfactory to the Company, and notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary as provided in Section 5.2, the Benefits provided hereunder in connection with a termination of employment shall be provided only for the Salary Continuation Period set forth in
Release
 
Section 1.16(a) of this Plan, and the special medical benefit described in Section 4.4 of this Plan shall not be provided. In no event shall the release described in this Section 3.3 impair the ability of a Participant who executes such a release to pursue any rights the Participant may have with respect to benefits pursuant to the Sunoco, Inc. Special Executive Severance Plan.
 
 
 
Section 4.1 . The immediate cash amount to be paid to a Participant eligible to receive Benefits under Section 3.1 hereof shall be paid in a lump sum and shall equal the Participant's earned vacation (as determined under the Company's applicable vacation policy as in effect on the Employment Termination Date) through the end of his or her Employment Termination Date.
Amount of Immediate Cash Benefit
 
Section 4.2 . A Participant who is eligible to receive Benefits under Section 3.1 shall continue to be entitled, through the end of his/her Salary Continuation Period to his/her Weekly Compensation as in effect on the Employment Termination Date.
Salary Continuation
 
Section 4.3 . A Participant who is eligible to receive Benefits under Section 3.1 shall continue to be entitled, through the end of his/her Salary Continuation Period to those employee benefits listed below:
Executive Benefits
 
(a) death benefits as follows:
 
(1) for Participants who became Executive Resource Employees on or after January 1, 1985, an amount equal to one (1) times annual base salary at the Employment Termination Date; and
 
(2) for Participants who became Executive Resource Employees before January 1, 1985, an amount equal to two (2) times the sum of annual base salary and guideline bonus at the Employment Termination Date;
 
Any supplemental coverages elected under the Sunoco, Inc. Death Benefits Plan (or any similar plan of any of the following: a subsidiary or affiliate which has adopted this Plan; a corporation succeeding to the business of Sunoco, Inc.; and/or any subsidiary or affiliate, by merger, consolidation or liquidation or purchase of assets or stock or similar transaction) will be discontinued under the terms of such plan or plans; and
 
(b) medical plan benefits (excluding dental coverage), including COBRA continuation coverage beginning as of the start of the Salary Continuation Period and running concurrently therewith.
 
In each case, when contributions are required of all other active Executive Resource Employees at the time of the Participant's Employment Termination Date, or thereafter, if required of other Executive Resource Employees, the Participant shall continue to be responsible for making the required contributions during the Salary Continuation Period in order to be eligible for the coverage. The Participant also shall be entitled to such outplacement services as deemed appropriate by the Committee.
 
Section 4.4 . Participants who have executed and not revoked the release described in Section 3.3 hereof, and who are fifty (50) or more years of age on the Employment Termination date, with a minimum of ten (10) years of Company Service shall have medical (but not dental) benefits available under the same terms and conditions as other employees not yet eligible for Medicare coverage who retire under the terms of a Company retirement plan. Subject to modification or termination of such medical benefits as generally provided to other employees not yet eligible for Medicare coverage who retire under the terms of a Company retirement plan, such benefits may continue until such time as the Participant becomes first eligible for Medicare, or the Participant voluntarily cancels coverage, whichever is earliest.
Special Medical Benefit
 
Section 4.5 . This Plan shall not govern and shall in no way affect the Participant's interest in, or entitlement to benefits under, any of the Company's qualified or supplemental retirement plans and any payments received under any such plan shall not affect a Participant's right to any Benefit hereunder.
Retirement Plans
 
Section 4.6 . Notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4 hereof, the Benefits available under this Plan shall not be less than those determined in accordance with the provisions of the Sunoco, Inc. Involuntary Termination Plan. If the Participant determines that the benefits under the Sunoco, Inc. Involuntary Termination Plan are more valuable to the Participant than the comparable Benefits set forth in this Plan, then the provisions used to calculate the Benefits available to the Participant under this Plan shall not apply, and the Benefits available to the Participant under this Plan shall be calculated using only the applicable provisions of the Sunoco, Inc. Involuntary Termination Plan.
Minimum Benefit
 
Section 4.7 . There shall not be drawn from the continued provision by the Company of any of the aforementioned Benefits any implication of continued employment or of continued right to accrual of retirement benefits under the Company's qualified or supplemental retirement plans, nor shall a Participant accrue vacation days, paid holidays, paid sick days or other similar benefits normally associated with employment for any part of the Salary Continuation Period during which benefits are payable under this Plan.
Effect on Other Benefits
 
 
 
Section 5.1 .
Method of Payment
 
(a) The cash Benefits to which a Participant is entitled, as determined pursuant to Article IV hereof, shall be paid monthly except as otherwise provided in this Article V. Payment shall be made by mailing to the last address provided by the Participant to the Company, or by direct deposit into a bank account designated by the Participant in writing to the Company.
 
(b) Payment of any cash Benefits (that are deferred compensation for purposes of IRC Section 409A) to any Participant who is a specified employee as defined in IRC Section 409A and the regulations promulgated thereunder shall be made as follows. Cash Benefits that are scheduled to be paid for the period which begins on such Participant's separation from service as defined in IRC Section 409A and the regulations promulgated thereunder and ends on the date six months from such Participant's separation from service, shall not be paid as scheduled, but shall be accumulated and paid in a lump sum on the date six months after the Participant's separation from service. Simple interest will be paid on cash Benefits delayed hereunder from the date such payments would have been made to the Participant but for this subsection (b), to the date of actual payment, at the interest rate used to determine lump sum payments under the Sunoco, Inc. Retirement Plan as of the date of the Participant's separation from service.
 
Section 5.2 In order to be eligible to receive full Benefits hereunder, a Participant shall make himself/herself available to the Company and cooperate in any reasonable manner (so as not to unreasonably interfere with subsequent employment) in providing assistance to the Company after his or her Employment Termination Date in conducting any matters which are pending at such time, and, as provided in Section 3.3, shall execute a release and discharge of the Company from any and all claims, demands or causes of action other than as to amounts or benefits due to the Participant under any plan, program or contract provided by, or entered into with, the Company. Such release and discharge shall be in such form as is prescribed by the Committee and shall be executed prior to the payment of any Benefits due hereunder. In addition, no Benefits due hereunder shall be paid to a Participant who is required by Company guidelines to execute an agreement governing the assignment of patents or the disclosure of confidential information unless an executed copy of such agreement is on file with the Company.
Conditions to Entitlement to Benefit.
 
Section 5.3 . Each Executive Resource Employee shall designate a beneficiary(ies) to receive any Benefits due hereunder in the event of the Participant's death prior to the receipt of all such Benefits. Such beneficiary designation shall be made in the manner, and at the time, prescribed by the Committee in its sole discretion. In the absence of an effective beneficiary designation hereunder, the Participant's estate shall be deemed to be his or her designated beneficiary.
Payments to Beneficiary(ies)
 
Section 5.4 . In accordance with the transition guidance set forth in Section 20(a) of IRS Notice 2005-1, a Participant who commences receipt of Benefits under the Plan during the period January 1, 2005 through June 30, 2005, shall have the right to elect, in the form and manner prescribed by the Committee, to terminate his or her participation in the Plan, in whole or in part, provided that the Benefits subject to such termination shall be distributed to the Participant no later than December 31, 2005.
Benefit Payments Commencing Between January 1, 2005 and June 30, 2005
 
 
 
Section 6.1 . The Committee shall consist of three (3) or more persons appointed by the Compensation Committee. Committee members may be, but need not be, employees of the Company.
Appointment of the Committee
 
Section 6.2 . Committee members shall serve at the pleasure of the Compensation Committee and may be discharged, with or without Cause, by the Compensation Committee. Committee members may resign at any time on ten (10) days' written notice.
Tenure of the Committee
 
Section 6.3 . It shall be the duty of the Committee, on the basis of information supplied to it by the Company, to determine the eligibility of each Participant for Benefits under the Plan, to determine the amount of Benefit to which each such Participant may be entitled, and to determine the manner and time of payment of the Benefit consistent with the provisions hereof. In addition, the exercise of discretion by the Committee need not be uniformly applied to similarly situated Participants. The Company shall make such payments as are certified to it by the Committee to be due to Participants. The Committee shall have the full power and authority to construe, interpret and administer the Plan, to correct deficiencies therein, to supply omissions and to make factual determinations. All decisions, actions and interpretations of the Committee shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the parties.
Authority and Duties
 
Section 6.4 . A majority of the members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at a meeting of the Committee. Any action of the Committee may be taken upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Committee at a meeting, or at the direction of the Chairperson, without a meeting by mail, telegraph, telephone or electronic communication device; provided that all of the members of the Committee are informed of their right to vote on the matter before the Committee and of the outcome of the vote thereon.
Action by the Committee
 
Section 6.5 . The Compensation Committee shall designate one of the members of the Committee to serve as Chairperson thereof. The Compensation Committee shall also designate a person to serve as Secretary of the Committee, which person may be, but need not be, a member of the Committee.
Officers of the Committee
 
Section 6.6 . Members of the Committee shall receive no compensation for their services as such. However, all reasonable expenses of the Committee shall be paid or reimbursed by the Company upon proper documentation. The Company shall indemnify members of the Committee against personal liability for actions taken in good faith in the discharge of their respective duties as members of the Committee and shall provide coverage to them under the Company's liability insurance program(s).
Compensation of the Committee
 
Section 6.7 . The Committee shall keep all individual and group records relating to Participants and former Participants and all other records necessary for the proper operation of the Plan. Such records shall be made available to the Company and to each Participant for examination during business hours except that a Participant shall examine only such records as pertain exclusively to the examining Participant and to the Plan. The Committee shall prepare and shall file as required by law or regulation all reports, forms, documents and other items required by ERISA, the Internal Revenue Code, and every other relevant statute, each as amended, and all regulations thereunder (except that the Company, as payor of the Benefits, shall prepare and distribute to the proper recipients all forms relating to withholding of income or wage taxes, Social Security taxes, and other amounts which may be similarly reportable).
Records, Reporting and Disclosure
 
Section 6.8 . Whenever a determination is required of the Chief Executive Officer under the Plan, such determination shall be made solely at the discretion of the Chief Executive Officer. In addition, the exercise of discretion by the Chief Executive Officer need not be uniformly applied to similarly situated Participants and shall be final and binding on each Participant or beneficiary(ies) to whom the determination is directed.
Actions of the Chief Executive Officer
 
Section 6.9 . The Committee shall arrange any bonding that may be required by law, but no amount in excess of the amount required by law (if any) shall be required by the Plan.
Bonding
 
 
 
Section 7.1 . The Company, acting by or pursuant to a resolution of the Board of Directors, or a committee thereof delegated such responsibility, retains the right, at any time and from time to time, to amend, suspend or terminate the Plan in whole or in part, for any reason, and without either the consent of or the prior notification to any Participant. No such amendment shall give the Company the right to recover any amount paid to a Participant prior to the date of such amendment or to cause the cessation and discontinuance of payments of Benefits to any person or persons under the Plan already receiving Benefits. No action to amend or modify the Plan that is taken after a Change in Control (as such term is defined in the Special Executive Severance Plan of the Company) or before, but in connection with, a Change in Control, may terminate or reduce the rights of an Employee as of the date of such action with respect to the Special Executive Severance Plan or Section 3.3.
Amendment, Suspension and Termination
 
 
 
Section 8.1 . The Company shall supply to the Committee all records and information necessary to the performance of the Committee's duties.
Records
 
Section 8.2 . The Company shall make payments from its general assets to Participants, and shall provide the Benefits described in Article IV hereof in accordance with the terms of this Plan, as directed by the Committee.
Payment
 
 
 
Section 9.1 . Benefits shall be paid by the Company following a termination of employment that qualifies the Participant for Benefits. In the event a Participant believes himself/herself eligible for Benefits under this Plan and Benefit payments have not been initiated by the Company, the Participant may apply for such Benefits by requesting payment of Benefits in writing from the Company.
Application for Benefits
 
Section 9.2 . In the event that any claim for benefits is denied in whole or in part, the Participant (or beneficiary, if applicable) whose claim has been so denied shall be notified of such denial in writing by the Committee, within thirty (30)
Appeals of Denied Claims for Benefits
 
days following submission by the Participant (or beneficiary, if applicable) of such claim to the Committee. The notice advising of the denial shall specify the reason or reasons for denial, make specific reference to pertinent Plan provisions, describe any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim (explaining why such material or information is needed), and shall advise the Participant of the procedure for the appeal of such denial. All appeals shall be made by the following procedure:
 
(a) The Participant whose claim has been denied shall file with the Committee a notice of desire to appeal the denial. Such notice shall be filed within sixty (60) days of notification by the Committee of the claim denial, shall be made in writing, and shall set forth all of the facts upon which the appeal is based. Appeals not timely filed shall be barred.
 
(b) The Committee shall, within thirty (30) days of receipt of the Participant's notice of appeal, establish a hearing date on which the Participant may make an oral presentation to the Committee in support of his/her appeal. The Participant shall be given not less than ten (10) days' notice of the date set for the hearing.
 
(c) The Committee shall consider the merits of the claimant's written and oral presentations, the merits of any facts or evidence in support of the denial of benefits, and such other facts and circumstances as the Committee shall deem relevant. If the claimant elects not to make an oral presentation, such election shall not be deemed adverse to his/her interest, and the Committee shall proceed as set forth below as though an oral presentation of the contents of the claimant's written presentation had been made.
 
(d) The Committee shall render a determination upon the appealed claim, within sixty (60) days of the hearing date, which determination shall be accompanied by a written statement as to the reasons therefor. The determination so rendered shall be binding upon all parties.
 
 
 
Section 10.1 . None of the payments, benefits or rights of any Participant shall be subject to any claim of any creditor, and, in particular, to the fullest extent permitted by law, all such payments, benefits and rights shall be free from attachment, garnishment, trustee's process, or any other legal or equitable process available to any creditor of such Participant. No Participant shall have the right to alienate, anticipate, commute, pledge, encumber or assign any of the benefits or payments which he/she may expect to receive, contingently or otherwise, under this Plan.
Nonalienation of Benefits
 
Section 10.2 . Neither the establishment of the Plan, nor any modification thereof, nor the creation of any fund, trust or account, nor the payment of any benefits shall be construed as giving any Participant, or any person whosoever, the right to be retained in the service of the Company, and all Participants shall remain subject to discharge to the same extent as if the Plan had never been adopted.
No Contract of Employment
 
Section 10.3 . If any provision of this Plan shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions hereof, and this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such provisions had not been included.
Severability of Provisions
 
Section 10.4 . This Plan shall be binding upon the heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns of the parties, including each Participant, present and future. Unless the Chief Executive Officer directs otherwise, the Company shall require any successor or successors (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company, or a division thereof, to acknowledge expressly that this Agreement is binding upon and enforceable against the Company in accordance with the terms hereof, and to become jointly and severally obligated with the Company to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform if no such succession or successions had taken place.
Successors, Heirs, Assigns, and Personal Representatives
 
Section 10.5 . The headings and captions herein are provided for reference and convenience only, shall not be considered part of the Plan, and shall not be employed in the construction of the Plan.
Headings and Captions
 
Section 10.6 . Except where otherwise clearly indicated by context, the masculine and the neuter shall include the feminine and the neuter, the singular shall include the plural, and vice-versa.
Gender and Number
 
Section 10.7 . The Plan shall not be funded. The Company may, but shall not be required to, set aside or earmark an amount necessary to provide the Benefits specified herein (including the establishment of trusts). In any event, no Participant shall have any right to, or interest in, any assets of the Company which may be applied by the Company to the payment of Benefits.
Unfunded Plan
 
Section 10.8 . Any benefit payable to or for the benefit of a minor, an incompetent person or other person incapable of receipting therefor shall be deemed paid when paid to such person's guardian or to the party providing or reasonably appearing to provide for the care of such person, and such payment shall fully discharge the Company, the Committee and all other parties with respect thereto.
Payments to Incompetent Persons, Etc
 
Section 10.9 . A Benefit shall be deemed forfeited if the Committee is unable to locate a Participant to whom a Benefit is due. Such Benefit shall be reinstated if application is made by the Participant for the forfeited Benefit while this Plan is in operation.
Lost Payees
 
Section 10.10 . This Plan shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to the extent not preempted by Federal law.
Controlling Law
 

Exhibit 10.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
As used in this Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings herein specified:
 
1.1 - shall mean any entity that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with Sunoco, Inc.
Affiliate
 
1.2 - shall mean the Board of Directors of Sunoco, Inc.
Board of Directors
 
1.3 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 1.4(c).
Business Combination
 
1.4 - shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events:
Change in Control
 
(a) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (1) the then-outstanding shares of common stock of Sunoco, Inc. (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (2) the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of Sunoco, Inc. entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); , , that, for purposes of this Section (a), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (A) any acquisition directly from Sunoco, Inc., (B) any acquisition by Sunoco, Inc., (C) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Sunoco, Inc. or any company controlled by, controlling or under common control with Sunoco, Inc., or (D) any acquisition by any entity pursuant to a transaction that complies with Sections (c)(1), (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this definition;
provided
however
 
(b) Individuals who, as of September 6, 2001, constitute the Board of Directors (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors; , , that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the shareholders of Sunoco, Inc., was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board of Directors;
provided
however
 
(c) Consummation of a reorganization, merger, statutory share exchange or consolidation or similar corporate transaction involving Sunoco, Inc. or any of its subsidiaries, a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of Sunoco, Inc. or the acquisition of assets or stock of another entity by Sunoco, Inc. or any of its subsidiaries (each, a "Business
 
Combination"), in each case unless, following such Business Combination, (1) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities that were the beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of the then-outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation that, as a result of such transaction, owns Sunoco, Inc. or all or substantially all of the assets of Sunoco, Inc., either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (2) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of Sunoco, Inc. or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any of their respective subsidiaries) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of such corporation, except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (3) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board of Directors providing for such Business Combination; or
 
(d) Approval by the shareholders of Sunoco, Inc. of a complete liquidation or dissolution of Sunoco, Inc.
 
1.5 - shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
1.6 - shall mean the committee appointed to administer this Plan by the Board of Directors, as constituted from time to time. The Committee shall consist of at least two (2) members of the Board of Directors, each of whom shall meet applicable requirements set forth in the pertinent regulations under Section 16 of the Exchange Act and Section 162(m) of the Code.
Committee
 
1.7 - shall mean the authorized and unissued or treasury shares of common stock of Sunoco, Inc.
Common Stock
 
1.8 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 6.1.
Common Stock Units
 
1.9 - shall mean Sunoco, Inc., and any Affiliate.
Company
 
1.10 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 6.9
CSU Payout Date
 
1.11 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 6.3.
Dividend Equivalents
 
1.12 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 6.3.
Dividend Equivalent Account
 
1.13 - shall mean the date on which the employment relationship between the Participant and the Company is terminated, or on which the Participant ceases to be a member of the Board of Directors.
Employment Termination Date
 
1.14  shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
1.15 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 5.3.
Exercise Period
 
1.16 - shall mean, as of any date and in respect of any share of Common Stock, the opening price on such date of a share of Common Stock (which price shall be the closing price on the previous trading day of a share of Common Stock as reflected in the consolidated trading tables of the Wall Street Journal under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions" or any other publication selected by the Committee). If there is no sale of shares of Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange for more than ten (10) days immediately preceding such date, the Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock shall be as determined by the Committee in such other manner as it may deem appropriate. In no event shall the Fair Market Value of any share of Common Stock be less than its par value.
Fair Market Value
 
1.17 - shall mean spouse (or common law spouse), siblings, parents, children, stepchildren, adoptive relationships and/or grandchildren of the Participant (and, for this purpose, also shall include the Participant).
Immediate Family Member
 
1.18 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 4.1.
Incentive Stock Options
 
1.19 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 1.4(b).
Incumbent Board
 
1.20 - shall mean, for any Participant who is a participant in the Sunoco, Inc. Special Executive Severance Plan, "Just Cause" as defined in such plan, and for any other Participant:
Just Cause
 
(a) the willful and continued failure of the Participant to perform substantially the Participant's duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness or following notice of employment termination by the Participant pursuant to Section 1.34), after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Participant by the Board of Directors or any employee of the Company with supervisory authority over the Participant that specifically identifies the manner in which the Board of Directors or such supervising employee believes that the Participant has not substantially performed the Participant's duties, or
 
(b) the willful engaging by the Participant in illegal conduct or gross misconduct that is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company.
 
1.21 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 5.1.
Limited Rights
 
1.22 - - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 5.4.
Market Price
 
1.23 - shall mean Stock Option and/or Incentive Stock Option.
Option
 
1.24 - shall mean the purchase price per share of Common Stock deliverable upon the exercise of an Option.
Option Price
 
1.25 - shall mean the holder of an Option.
Optionee
 
1.26 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 1.4(a).
Outstanding Company Common Stock
 
1.27 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 1.4(a).
Outstanding Company Voting Securities
 
1.28 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 2.4(a).
Participant
 
1.29 - shall mean the various payout percentages related to the attainment levels of one or more Performance Goals, as determined by the Committee.
Performance Factors
 
1.30 - shall mean the specific targeted amounts of, or changes in, financial or operating goals including: revenues; expenses; net income; operating income; equity; return on equity, assets or capital employed; working capital; shareholder return; operating capacity utilized; production or sales volumes; or throughput. Other financial or operating goals may also be used as determined by the Committee. Such goals may be applicable to the Company as a whole or one or more of its business units and may be applied in total or on a per share, per barrel or percentage basis and on an absolute basis or relative to other companies, industries or indices or any combination thereof, as determined by the Committee.
Performance Goals
 
1.31 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 6.4.
Performance Period
 
1.32 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 1.4(a).
Person
 
1.33 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 2.2.
Plan
 
1.34 - shall mean, with respect to the employment of any Participant who is a participant in the Sunoco, Inc. Special Executive Severance Plan, a "Qualifying Termination" as defined in such plan, and with respect to the employment of any other Participant, the following:
Qualifying Termination
 
(a) a termination of employment by the Company within seven (7) months after a Change in Control, other than for Just Cause, death or permanent disability;
 
(b) a termination of employment by the Participant within seven (7) months after a Change in Control for one or more of the following reasons:
 
(1) the assignment to such Participant of any duties inconsistent in a way significantly adverse to such Participant, with such Participant's positions, duties, responsibilities and status with the Company immediately prior to the Change in Control, or a significant reduction in the duties and responsibilities held by the Participant
 
immediately prior to the Change in Control, in each case except in connection with such Participant's termination of employment by the Company for Just Cause; or
 
(2) a reduction by the Company in the Participant's combined annual base salary and guideline (target) bonus as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control; or
 
(3) the Company requires the Participant to be based anywhere other than the Participant's present work location or a location within thirty-five (35) miles from the present location; or the Company requires the Participant to travel on Company business to an extent substantially more burdensome than such Participant's travel obligations during the period of twelve (12) consecutive months immediately preceding the Change in Control;
 
that in the case of any such termination of employment by the Participant under this subparagraph (b), such termination shall not be deemed to be a Qualifying Termination unless the termination occurs within 120 days after the occurrence of the event or events constituting the reason for the termination; or
provided, however,
 
(c) before a Change in Control, a termination of employment by the Company, other than a termination for Just Cause, or a termination of employment by the Participant for one of the reasons set forth in (b) above, if the affected Participant can demonstrate that such termination or circumstance in (b) above leading to the termination:
 
(1) was at the request of a third party with which the Company had entered into negotiations or an agreement with regard to a Change in Control; or
 
(2) otherwise occurred in connection with a Change in Control;
 
, that in either such case, a Change in Control actually occurs within one (1) year following the Employment Termination Date.
provided, however
 
1.35 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 3.1.
Stock Options
 
1.36 - shall mean any corporation of which, at the time, more than fifty percent (50%) of the shares entitled to vote generally in an election of directors are owned directly or indirectly by Sunoco, Inc. or any subsidiary thereof.
Subsidiary
 
1.37 . - shall mean Sunoco, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation, and any successor thereto by merger, consolidation, liquidation or purchase of assets or stock or similar transaction.
Sunoco, Inc
 
 
 
2.1 . Effective on December 31, 2001, no further awards shall be made under the Sunoco, Inc. Long-Term Performance Enhancement Plan adopted in May, 1997; that any rights theretofore granted under that plan shall not be affected.
Background
provided, however,
 
2.2 . The purposes of this Sunoco, Inc. Long-Term Performance Enhancement Plan II (the "Plan") are to:
Purpose of the Plan
 
(a) better align the interests of shareholders and management of the Company by creating a direct linkage between Participants' rewards and shareholders' gains;
 
(b) provide management with the ability to increase equity ownership in Sunoco, Inc.;
 
(c) provide competitive compensation opportunities that can be realized through attainment of performance goals; and
 
(d) provide an incentive to management for continuous employment with the Company.
 
It is intended that most awards made under the Plan will qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
2.3 . The original Plan was approved by shareholders at Sunoco, Inc.'s 2001 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and first became effective at that time. The amended and re-stated version of the Plan, presented at Sunoco, Inc.'s 2003 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, will become effective upon approval by the holders of a majority of the votes present, in person or represented by proxy, at such meeting. No awards will be made under this Plan after December 31, 2008 unless the Board of Directors extends this date to a date no later than December 31, 2013 The Plan and all awards made under the Plan prior to such date (or extended date) shall remain in effect until such awards have been satisfied or terminated in accordance with the Plan and the terms of such awards.
Term of the Plan
 
2.4 . The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which shall have the authority, in its sole discretion and from time to time to:
Administration
 
(a) designate the employees or directors, or classes of employees or directors, eligible to participate in the Plan (each such employee or director being, a "Participant");
 
(b) grant awards provided in the Plan in such form and amount as the Committee shall determine;
 
(c) impose such limitations, restrictions and conditions upon any such award as the Committee shall deem appropriate; and
 
(d) interpret the Plan, adopt, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, and make all other determinations and take all other action necessary or advisable for the implementation and administration of the Plan.
 
The decisions and determinations of the Committee on all matters relating to the Plan shall be in its sole discretion and shall be conclusive. No member of the Committee shall be liable for any action taken or not taken or decision made or not made in good faith relating to the Plan or any award thereunder.
 
2.5 . Participants in the Plan shall be:
Eligibility for Participation
 
(a) non-employee members of the Board of Directors; and
 
(b) those officers and other key employees occupying responsible managerial or professional positions at the Company, and capable of substantially contributing to its success.
 
In making this selection and in determining the amount of awards, the Committee shall consider any factors deemed relevant, including the individual's functions, responsibilities, value of services to the Company and past and potential contributions to its profitability and sound growth.
 
2.6 . Awards under the Plan may be in the form of any one or more of the following:
Types of Awards Under the Plan
 
(a) Stock Options, as described in Article III;
 
(b) Incentive Stock Options, as described in Article IV;
 
(c) Limited Rights, as described in Article V; and/or
 
(d) Common Stock Units, as described in Article VI.
 
2.7 . Shares of stock which may be issued under the Plan shall be Common Stock. The maximum number of shares of Common Stock authorized for issuance under the Plan as originally adopted by the shareholders at Sunoco, Inc.'s 2001 Annual Meeting was four million (4,000,000). No Option may be granted if the number of shares of Common Stock to which such Option relates, when added to the number of shares of Common Stock previously issued under the Plan, exceeds the number of such shares reserved under the preceding sentence. For purposes of calculating the maximum number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued under the Plan:
Aggregate Limitation on Awards
 
(a) all the shares issued (including the shares, if any, withheld for tax withholding requirements) shall be counted when cash is used as full payment for shares issued upon exercise of an Option;
 
(b) only the shares issued (including the shares, if any, withheld for tax withholding requirements) net of shares of Common Stock used as full or partial payment for such shares upon exercise of an Option, shall be counted; and
 
(c) only the shares issued (including the shares, if any, withheld for tax withholding) upon vesting and payment of Common Stock Units, shall be counted.
 
In addition to shares of Common Stock actually issued pursuant to the exercise of Options, there shall be deemed to have been issued a number of shares equal to the number of shares of Common Stock in respect of which Limited Rights (as described in Article V) shall have been exercised. Shares tendered by a Participant as payment for shares issued upon exercise of an Option shall be available for issuance under the Plan. Any shares distributed pursuant to an Option may consist, in whole or in part, of authorized and unissued shares or treasury shares including shares of Common Stock acquired by purchase in the open market or in private transactions. Any shares of Common Stock subject to an Option, which for any reason is terminated, unexercised or expires shall again be available for issuance under the Plan, but shares subject to an Option that, as a result of the exercise of Limited Rights, are not issued, shall not be available for issuance under the Plan.
 
(d) The maximum number of Options that shall be granted in any calendar year to a Participant shall be four hundred thousand (400,000).
 
(e) The maximum number of Common Stock Units granted in any calendar year to a Participant shall be one hundred fifty thousand (150,000).
 
(f) The maximum number of Common Stock Units granted under the Plan will be two million (2,000,000).
 
The share limits set forth in this Section 2.7 shall be adjusted to reflect any capitalization changes as discussed in Section 7.8.
 
 
 
3.1 . The Committee, from time to time, and subject to the provisions of the Plan and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may prescribe, may grant to any Participant in the Plan one or more options to purchase for cash or shares the number of shares of Common Stock ("Stock Options") allotted by the Committee. The date a Stock Option is granted shall mean the date selected by the Committee as of which the Committee allots a specific number of options to a Participant pursuant to the Plan.
Award of Stock Options
 
3.2 . The grant of a Stock Option shall be evidenced by a written Stock Option Agreement, executed by the Company and the holder of a Stock Option, stating the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the Stock Option evidenced thereby, and in such form as the Committee may from time to time determine.
Stock Option Agreements
 
3.3 . The Option Price per share of Common Stock deliverable upon the exercise of a Stock Option shall be not less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date the Stock Option is granted.
Stock Option Price
 
3.4 . The term and the vesting schedule of the Stock Options shall be determined by the Committee. However, except as otherwise provided in Section 3.11, no Stock Option may be exercisable before the first anniversary of the date of grant or after the tenth anniversary of the date of grant. No Stock Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of its term.
Term and Exercise
 
3.5 . No Stock Option may be transferred by the Participant other than by will, by the laws of descent and distribution or, to the extent not inconsistent with the applicable provisions of the Code, pursuant to a domestic relations order under applicable provisions of law, and during the Participant's lifetime the option may be exercised only by the Participant; that, subject to such limits as the Committee may establish, the Committee, in its discretion, may allow the Participant to transfer a Stock Option for no consideration to, or for the benefit of, an Immediate Family Member or to a bona fide trust for the exclusive benefit of such Immediate Family Members, or a partnership or limited liability company in which such Immediate Family Members are the only partners or members.
Transferability
provided, however,
 
Such transfer may only be effected following the advance written notice from the Participant to the Committee, describing the terms and conditions of the proposed transfer, and such transfer shall become effective only when recorded in the Company's record of outstanding Stock Options. Any such transferable Stock Option is further conditioned on the Participant and such Immediate Family Member or other transferee agreeing to abide by the Company's then-current Stock Option transfer guidelines. In the discretion of the Committee, the foregoing right to transfer a Stock Option also will apply to the right to transfer ancillary rights associated with such Stock Option, and to the right to consent to any amendment to the applicable Stock Option Agreement.
 
Subsequent transfers shall be prohibited except in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution, or by will. Following transfer, any such Stock Options shall continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer, and the terms "Optionee" or "Participant" shall be deemed to include the transferee; that
provided, however,
 
the events of termination of employment of Sections 3.8 ("Retirement or Disability"), 3.9 ("Termination for Other Reasons") and 3.10 ("Death of Optionee") hereof shall continue to be applied with respect to the original Optionee, following which the options shall be exercisable by the transferee only to the extent, and for the respective periods specified therein. Neither the Committee nor the Company will have any obligation to inform any transferee of a Stock Option or stock appreciation right of any expiration, termination, lapse or acceleration of such Option. The Company will have no obligation to register with any federal or state securities commission or agency any Common Stock issuable or issued under a Stock Option or stock appreciation right that has been transferred by a Participant under this Section 3.5.
 
3.6 . Each Stock Option Agreement shall set forth the procedure governing the exercise of the Stock Option granted thereunder, and shall provide that, upon such exercise in respect of any shares of Common Stock subject thereto, the Optionee shall pay to the Company, in full, the Option Price for such shares (together with payment for any taxes which the Company is required by law to withhold by reason of such exercise) with cash or with Common Stock. All shares of Common Stock issued under this Plan, or any other Company plan, must be held at least six (6) months before they may be used as payment of the Option Price.
Manner of Payment
 
3.7 . As soon as practicable after receipt of payment, the Company shall deliver to the Optionee a certificate or certificates for, or otherwise register the Optionee on the books and records of the Company as a holder of, such shares of Common Stock. The Optionee shall become a shareholder of Sunoco, Inc. with respect to the Common Stock so registered, or represented by share certificates so issued, and as such shall be fully entitled to receive dividends, to vote and to exercise all other rights of a shareholder except to the extent otherwise provided in the Option award.
Issuance and Delivery of Shares
 
(a) Notwithstanding the foregoing, and at the discretion of the Committee, any Optionee subject to minimum stock ownership guidelines (as established from time to time by the Committee or the Company), but failing to meet the applicable personal ownership requirement within the prescribed period may, upon exercise of the Options, receive a number of shares of Common Stock subject to the following restrictions which shall remain in place until compliance with such ownership guidelines is attained:
 
(1) The number of shares subject to the restrictions shall be equal to the total number of shares received in the exercise of the Options, minus the sum of:
 
(i) to the extent that shares received upon exercise of the Option are used to pay the Option Price, the number of shares which have a Fair Market Value on the date of the Option exercise equal to the total amount paid for all the shares received in the Option exercise; and
 
(ii) to the extent that shares received upon exercise of the Option are used to pay taxes and brokerage fees, the number of shares which have a Fair Market Value on the date of the Option exercise equal to the applicable federal, state and local withholding tax on the total Option exercise and any brokerage commission or interest charges, if applicable to the exercise.
 
(2) Other than transfers to family members or trusts that are permitted in accordance with the applicable stock ownership guidelines, and that will not result in a reduction in the level of ownership attributable to the Participant under such guidelines, the Optionee shall be prohibited from effecting the sale, exchange, transfer, pledge, hypothecation, gift or other disposition of such shares of Common Stock until the earlier of:
 
(i) attainment of compliance with applicable stock ownership guidelines;
 
(ii) the Optionee's death, retirement, or permanent disability (as determined by the Committee); or
 
(iii) occurrence of the Optionee's Employment Termination Date, for any reason other than Just Cause.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, six (6) months after the exercise of the Stock Option, such shares of Common Stock may be used as payment of the Option Price of shares issued upon the exercise of other Stock Options. However, all such shares issued will be restricted shares.
 
(3) The restrictions shall apply to any new, additional or different securities the Optionee may become entitled to receive with respect to such shares by virtue of a stock split or stock dividend or any other change in the corporate or capital structure of the Company.
 
(b) Until such time as the restrictions hereunder lapse, the shares will be held in "book-entry form" and appropriate notation of these restrictions will be maintained in the records of the Company's transfer agent and registrar. Any share certificate representing such shares
 
will bear a conspicuous legend evidencing these restrictions, and the Company may require the Optionee to deposit the share certificate with the Company or its agent, endorsed in blank or accompanied by a duly executed irrevocable stock power or other instrument of transfer.
 
3.8 . Upon termination of the Optionee's employment by reason of retirement or permanent disability (as each is determined by the Committee), the Optionee may, within sixty (60) months from the date of termination, exercise any Stock Options to the extent such options are exercisable during such 60-month period.
Retirement or Disability
 
3.9 . Except as provided in Sections 3.8 and 3.10, or except as otherwise determined by the Committee, upon termination of an Optionee's employment, all unvested Stock Options shall terminate immediately, and all vested Stock Options shall terminate:
Termination for Other Reasons
 
(a) immediately, in the case of an Optionee terminated by the Company for Just Cause; or
 
(b) upon the expiration of ninety (90) calendar days following the occurrence of the Optionee's Employment Termination Date, other than for Just Cause;
 
that the Limited Rights awarded in tandem with such Stock Options shall not terminate and such Limited Rights shall remain exercisable during the Exercise Period for any Optionee whose employment relationship with the Company has been terminated as a result of any Qualifying Termination.
provided, however,
 
3.10 . Any rights in respect of Stock Options to the extent exercisable on the date of the Optionee's death may be exercised by the Optionee's estate or by any person that acquires the legal right to exercise such Stock Option by bequest, inheritance, or otherwise by reason of the death of the Optionee. Any such exercise to be valid must occur within the remaining option term of the Stock Option. The foregoing provisions of this Section 3.10 shall apply to an Optionee who dies while employed by the Company and to an Optionee whose employment may have terminated prior to death; , that:
Death of Optionee
provided, however
 
(a) an Optionee who dies while employed by the Company will be treated as if the Optionee had retired on the date of death. Accordingly, the Optionee's estate or a person who acquires the right to exercise such Stock Option by bequest or inheritance will have the right to exercise the Stock Option in accordance with Section 3.8; or
 
(b) the estate or a person who acquires the right to exercise a Stock Option by bequest or inheritance from an Optionee who dies after terminating employment with the Company will have the remainder of any exercise period provided under Sections 3.8 and 3.9.
 
3.11 . Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary in agreements evidencing Options granted thereunder or in this Plan, each outstanding Option shall become immediately and fully exercisable upon the occurrence of any Change in Control.
Acceleration of Options
 
3.12 . The exercise of any Stock Options shall cancel that number of related Limited Rights, if any, which is equal to the number of shares of Common Stock purchased pursuant to said Options.
Effect of Exercise
 
 
 
4.1 . The Committee, from time to time, and subject to the provisions of the Plan and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may prescribe, may grant to any Participant in the Plan one or more "incentive stock options" (intended to qualify as such under the provisions of Section 422 of the Code ("Incentive Stock Options")) to purchase for cash or shares the number of shares of Common Stock allotted by the Committee. The date an Incentive Stock Option is granted shall mean the date selected by the Committee as of which the Committee allots a specific number of options to a Participant pursuant to the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Incentive Stock Options shall not be granted to any owner of ten percent (10%) or more of the total combined voting power of Sunoco, Inc. and its subsidiaries (within the meaning of Section 424(f) of the Code).
Award of Incentive Stock Options
 
4.2 . The grant of an Incentive Stock Option shall be evidenced by a written Incentive Stock Option Agreement, executed by the Company and the holder of an Incentive Stock Option stating the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the Incentive Stock Option evidenced thereby, and in such form as the Committee may from time to time determine.
Incentive Stock Option Agreements
 
4.3 . The Option Price per share of Common Stock deliverable upon the exercise of an Incentive Stock Option shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date the Incentive Stock Option is granted.
Incentive Stock Option Price
 
4.4 . The term and the vesting schedule of the Incentive Stock Option shall be determined by the Committee. However, no Incentive Stock Option may be exercisable before the first anniversary of the date of grant or after the tenth anniversary of such date. No Incentive Stock Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of its term.
Term and Exercise
 
4.5 . Each Incentive Stock Option shall provide that, if the aggregate Fair Market Value of the stock on the date of grant with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by an Optionee during any calendar year, under this Plan
Limits on Incentive Stock Options
 
or any other stock option plan of Sunoco, Inc. and its subsidiaries (within the meaning of Section 424(f) of the Code) exceeds One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00), then the Option, as to the excess shall be treated as a non-qualified stock option. An Incentive Stock Option shall not be granted to any person who is not an "employee" of the Company (within the meaning of Section 424(f) of the Code).
 
4.6 . Upon the termination of the Optionee's employment by reason of retirement or permanent disability (as each is determined by the Committee), the Optionee may, within sixty (60) months from the date of such termination of employment, exercise any Incentive Stock Options to the extent such Incentive Stock Options are exercisable during such 60-month period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the tax treatment available pursuant to Section 422 of the Code upon the exercise of an Incentive Stock Option will not be available to an Optionee who exercises any Incentive Stock Option more than:
Retirement or Disability
 
(a) twelve (12) months after the date of termination of employment due to permanent disability; or
 
(b) three (3) months after the date of termination of employment due to retirement.
 
4.7 . Except as provided in Sections 4.6 and 4.8, or except as otherwise determined by the Committee, upon termination of an Optionee's employment, all unvested Incentive Stock Options shall terminate immediately, and all vested Incentive Stock Options shall terminate:
Termination for Other Reasons
 
(a) immediately, in the case of an Optionee terminated by the Company for Just Cause; or
 
(b) upon the expiration of ninety (90) calendar days following the date of termination of an Optionee's employment other than for Just Cause;
 
, that the Limited Rights awarded in tandem with such Incentive Stock Options shall not terminate and such Limited Rights shall remain exercisable during the Exercise Period for any Optionee whose employment relationship with the Company has been terminated as a result of any Qualifying Termination.
provided, however
 
4.8 . Any rights in respect of Incentive Stock Options to the extent exercisable on the date of the Optionee's death may be exercised by the Optionee's estate or by any person that acquires the legal right to exercise such Stock Option by bequest, inheritance, or otherwise by reason of the death of the Optionee. Any such exercise to be valid must occur within the remaining option term of the Incentive Stock Option. The foregoing provisions of this Section 4.8 shall apply to an Optionee who dies while employed by the Company and to an Optionee whose employment may have terminated prior to death; , that:
Death of Optionee
provided, however
 
(a) an Optionee who dies while employed by the Company will be treated as if the Optionee had retired on the date of death. Accordingly, the Optionee's estate or a person who acquires the right to exercise such Incentive Stock Option by bequest or inheritance will have the right to exercise the Incentive Stock Option in accordance with Section 4.6; or
 
(b) the estate or a person who acquires the right to exercise a stock option by bequest or inheritance from an Optionee who dies after terminating employment with the Company will have the remainder of any exercise period provided under Section 4.6 and 4.7.
 
4.9 . Section 3.6 ("Manner of Payment"), Section 3.7 ("Issuance and Delivery of Shares"), Section 3.11 ("Acceleration of Options") and Section 3.12 ("Effect of Exercise"), applicable to Stock Options, shall apply equally to Incentive Stock Options. Said Sections are incorporated by reference in this Article IV as though fully set forth herein.
Applicability of Stock Options Selections
 
 
 
5.1 . Concurrently with or subsequent to the award of any Option, the Committee may, subject to the provisions of the Plan and such other terms and conditions as the Committee may prescribe, award to the Optionee with respect to each Option, a related limited right permitting the Optionee, during a specified limited time period, to be paid the appreciation on the Option in lieu of exercising the Option ("Limited Right").
Award of Limited Rights
 
5.2 . Limited Rights granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by written agreements in such form as the Committee may from time to time determine.
Limited Rights Agreement
 
5.3 . Limited Rights are immediately exercisable in full upon grant for a period of up to seven (7) months following the date of a Change in Control (the "Exercise Period").
Exercise Period
 
5.4 . The amount of payment to which an Optionee shall be entitled upon the exercise of each Limited Right shall be equal to 100% of the amount, if any, which is equal to the difference between the Option Price of the related Option and the Market Price of a share of such Common Stock. "Market Price" is defined to be the greater of:
Amount of Payment
 
(a) the highest price per share of Common Stock paid in connection with any Change in Control during the period from the sixtieth (60th) calendar day immediately prior to the Change in Control through the ninetieth (90th) calendar day following the Change in Control; and
 
(b) the highest trading price per share of Common Stock reflected in the consolidated trading tables of The Wall Street Journal (presently the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions quotations) during the 60-day period immediately prior to the Change in Control.
 
5.5 . Payment of the amount to which an Optionee is entitled upon the exercise of Limited Rights, as determined pursuant to Section 5.4, shall be made solely in cash.
Form of Payment
 
5.6 . If Limited Rights are exercised, the Stock Options, if any, related to such Limited Rights cease to be exercisable to the extent of the number of shares with respect to which the Limited Rights were exercised. Upon the exercise or termination of the Options, if any, related to such Limited Rights, the Limited Rights granted with respect thereto terminate to the extent of the number of shares as to which the related Options were exercised or terminated; that with respect to Options that are terminated as a result of the termination of the Optionee's employment status, the Limited Rights awarded in tandem therewith shall not terminate and such Limited Rights shall remain exercisable during the Exercise Period for any Optionee whose employment relationship with the Company has been terminated as a result of any Qualifying Termination.
Effect of Exercise
provided, however,
 
5.7 . Upon termination of the Optionee's employment by reason of permanent disability or retirement (as each is determined by the Committee), the Optionee may, within six (6) months from the date of termination, exercise any Limited Rights to the extent such Limited Right is exercisable during such six-month period.
Retirement or Disability
 
5.8 . Except as provided in Sections 5.7 and 5.9 or except as otherwise determined by the Committee, all Limited Rights granted under the Plan shall terminate upon the termination of the Optionee's employment or upon the death of the Optionee.
Death of Optionee or Termination for Other Reasons
 
5.9 . The requirement that an Optionee be terminated by reason of retirement or permanent disability or be employed by the Company at the time of exercise pursuant to Sections 5.7 and 5.8 respectively, is waived during the Exercise Period as to any Optionee whose employment relationship with the Company has been terminated as a result of any Qualifying Termination.
Termination Related to a Change in Control
 
 
 
6.1 . The Committee, from time to time, and subject to the provisions of the Plan, may grant to any Participant in the Plan rights to receive shares of Common Stock which are subject to a risk of forfeiture by the Participant ("Common Stock Units"). At the
Award of Common Stock Units
 
time it grants any Common Stock Units, the Committee shall determine whether the payment of such Common Stock Units shall be conditioned upon either:
 
(a) the Participant's continued employment with the Company throughout a stated period (Section 6.4); or
 
(b) the attainment of certain predetermined performance objectives during a stated period (Section 6.5).
 
The date Common Stock Units are granted shall mean the date selected by the Committee as of which the Committee allots a specific number of Common Stock Units to a Participant pursuant to the Plan.
 
6.2 . Common Stock Units granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by written agreements stating the number of Common Stock Units evidenced thereby or in such form and as the Committee may from time to time determine.
Common Stock Unit Agreements
 
6.3 . A holder of Common Stock Units will be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount equal to each cash dividend ("Dividend Equivalent") Sunoco, Inc. would have paid to such holder had he, on the record date for payment of such dividend, been the holder of record of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of Common Stock Units which had been awarded to such holder as of the close of business on such record date. The Company shall establish a bookkeeping account on behalf of each Participant in which the Dividend Equivalents that would have been paid to the holder of Common Stock Units ("Dividend Equivalent Account") shall be credited. The Dividend Equivalent Account will not bear interest.
Dividend Equivalents
 
6.4 . Upon making an award, the Committee shall determine (and the Common Stock Unit Agreement shall state) the length of the applicable period during which employment must be maintained or certain performance targets must be attained (the "Performance Period"). Performance Periods will normally be from three (3) to five (5) years; , that the Committee at its sole discretion may establish other time periods; that the Performance Period for an award conditioned upon a Participant's continued employment with the Company shall not be less than three (3) years.
Performance Period
provided, however
and further provided,
 
6.5 . Common Stock Units and the related Dividend Equivalent Account earned may be based upon the attainment of Performance Goals established by the Committee in accordance with Section 162(m) of the Code. Within the first ninety (90) days of the Performance Period, the Committee shall establish, in writing, the weighted Performance Goals and related Performance Factors for various goal achievement levels for the Company. In establishing the weighted Performance Goals, the Committee shall take the necessary steps to insure that the Company's ability to achieve the pre-established goals is uncertain at the time the goals are set.
Performance Goals
 
The established written Performance Goals, assigned weights, and Performance Factors shall be written in terms of an objective formula, whereby any third party having knowledge of the relevant Company performance results could calculate the amount to be paid. Such Performance Goals may vary by Participant and by grant.
 
The number of Common Stock Units and Dividend Equivalents earned will be equal to the amounts awarded multiplied by the applicable Performance Factors. However, the Committee shall have the discretion, by Participant and by grant, to reduce (but not to increase) some or all of the amount that would otherwise be payable by reason of the satisfaction of the Performance Goals. In making any such determination, the Committee is authorized to take into account any such factor or factors it determines are appropriate, including but not limited to Company, business unit and individual performance.
 
6.6 . Payment in respect of Common Stock Units earned (as determined under Sections 6.4 and 6.5) shall be made to the holder thereof within two and one-half (2
Payment of Common Stock Units and Dividend Equivalent Account
 1
/
2
) months after the Performance Period for such units has ended, but only to the extent that the Committee certifies in writing that the continuing employment and/or any applicable performance targets have been met.
 
Except as may be otherwise provided by Section 6.9, payment for Common Stock Units earned shall be made either in shares of Common Stock, or in cash, at the sole discretion of the Committee. The medium of payment, whether in shares of Common Stock or in cash, shall be set forth in the Committee's resolution granting the Common Stock Units and in the Agreement with the Participant.
 
For an award of Common Stock Units to be paid out in shares, the number of shares paid shall be equal to the number of Common Stock Units earned. The holder may elect to reduce this amount by the number of shares of Common Stock which have, on the date the Common Stock Units are paid, a Fair Market Value equal to the applicable federal, state and local withholding tax due on the receipt of Common Stock, in lieu of making a cash payment equal to the amount of such withholding tax due.
 
For an award of Common Stock Units to be settled in cash, the amount of cash paid shall be equal to the number of Common Stock Units earned multiplied by the average closing price for a share of Common Stock as published in the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the period of ten (10) trading days immediately prior to such date following the lapse of the Performance Period, and the satisfaction of any other applicable conditions established by the Committee at the time of grant, that the Participant
 
first becomes entitled to receive such payment. Such amount will be reduced by applicable federal, state and local withholding tax due.
 
A holder of Common Stock Units (whether or not such Common Stock Units are to be paid out in Common Stock, or settled in cash) will be entitled to receive from the Company, within two and one-half (2
 1
/
2
) months after the Performance Period, payment of an amount in cash equal to the Dividend Equivalent Account earned (as determined under Sections 6.4 and 6.5) by the holder minus applicable federal, state and local withholding tax due.
 
(a) Notwithstanding the foregoing, and at the discretion of the Committee, any Participant subject to minimum stock ownership guidelines (as established from time to time by the Committee or the Company), but failing to meet the applicable personal ownership requirement within the prescribed period may receive a number of shares of Common Stock upon payment of the Common Stock Units, subject to the following restrictions which shall remain in place until compliance with such ownership guidelines is attained:
 
(1) The number of shares subject to the restrictions shall be equal to the total number of Common Stock Units being paid out, minus the number of shares of Common Stock used to pay applicable federal, state and local withholding tax on the total payment of such Common Stock Units.
 
(2) Other than transfers to family members or trusts that are permitted in accordance with the applicable stock ownership guidelines, and that will not result in a reduction in the level of ownership attributable to the Participant under such guidelines, the Participant shall be prohibited from effecting the sale, exchange, transfer, pledge, hypothecation, gift or other disposition of such shares of Common Stock until the earlier of:
 
(i) attainment of compliance with applicable stock ownership guidelines;
 
(ii) the Participant's death, retirement, or permanent disability (as determined by the Committee); or
 
(iii) occurrence of the Participant's Employment Termination Date, for any reason other than Just Cause.
 
(3) These restrictions shall apply to any new, additional or different securities the Participant may become entitled to receive with respect to such shares by virtue of a stock split or stock dividend or any other change in the corporate or capital structure of the Company.
 
(b) Until such time as the restrictions hereunder lapse, the shares will be held in "book-entry form" and appropriate notation of these restrictions will be maintained in the records of the Company's transfer agent and registrar. Any share certificate representing such shares will bear a conspicuous legend evidencing these restrictions, and the Company may require the Participant to deposit the share certificate with the Company or its agent, endorsed in blank or accompanied by a duly executed irrevocable stock power or other instrument of transfer.
 
6.7 .
Death, Disability or Retirement
 
(a) Upon the occurrence of a Participant's Employment Termination Date, by reason of death, permanent disability or retirement (as each is determined by the Committee) prior to the end of the Performance Period:
 
(1) in the case of an award of Common Stock Units made pursuant to Section 6.1(a) hereof and conditioned upon the Participant's continued employment, the conditions to payout, if any, shall be determined by the Committee and shall be as set forth in the agreement granting the Common Stock Units, and shall be paid on the first day of the second month after the Participant's Employment Termination Date.
 
(2) in the case of an award of Common Stock Units made pursuant to Section 6.1(b) hereof and conditioned upon the attainment of certain predetermined performance objectives, no portion of the Participant's Common Stock Units and the Dividend Equivalent Account related to such award shall be forfeited, and the Common Stock Units, together with related Dividend Equivalents, shall be paid out as though such Participant continued to be an employee or director of the Company through any applicable Performance Period, and as, if, and when the applicable Performance Goals have been met.
 
6.8 . Except as provided in Sections 6.7 and 6.9, or as determined by the Committee, 100% of all Common Stock Units of a Participant under the Plan shall be forfeited and the Dividend Equivalent Account shall be forfeited upon the occurrence of the Participant's Employment Termination Date prior to the end of the Performance Period, and in such event the Participant shall not be entitled to receive any Common Stock or any payment of the Dividend Equivalent Account regardless of the level of Performance Goals achieved for the respective Performance Periods.
Termination of Employment
 
6.9 . In the event of a Change in Control, Common Stock Units shall be paid to the Participant no later than the earlier of (i) ninety (90) days following the date of occurrence of such Change in Control or (ii) two and one-half (2
Change in Control
 1
/
2
) months following the end of the calendar year in which occurs the date of such Change in Control (the "CSU Payout Date"), regardless of whether the applicable Performance Period has expired or whether the applicable Performance Goals have been met. For a Change in Control occurring within the first consecutive twelve-month period following the date of grant, the number of performance-based Common Stock Units paid out with regard to such grant shall be equal to the total number of Common Stock Units outstanding in such grant as the Change in Control, not adjusted for any Performance Factors described in Section 6.5. For a Change in Control occurring after the first consecutive twelve-month period following the date of grant, the number of performance-based Common Stock Units paid out with regard to such grant shall be the greater of (i) the total number of Common Stock Units outstanding in such grant as of the Change in Control, not adjusted for any Performance factors described in Section 6.5 or (ii) the total number of such Common Stock Units outstanding in such grant, multiplied by the applicable Performance Factors related to the Company's actual performance immediately prior to the Change in Control. In the case of an award of Common Stock Units conditioned upon the Participant's continued employment, the total number of Common Stock Units outstanding in such grant as of the Change in Control shall be paid to the Participant. The Participant's Common Stock Units shall be payable to the Participant in cash or stock, as determined by the Committee prior to the Change in Control, as follows:
 
(a) if the Participant is to receive stock, the Participant will receive shares of Common Stock equal in number to the total number of Common Stock Units as stated above in this Section 6.9; or
 
(b) if the Participant is to receive cash, the Participant will be paid an amount in cash equal to the number of Common Stock Units stated above in this Section 6.9 multiplied by the Market Price as defined in Section 5.4; provided that for purposes of this Section 6.9(b), the determination under Section 5.4(a) will be made for the period set forth in the first sentence of this Section 6.9. Such amount will be reduced by the applicable federal, state and local withholding taxes due.
 
On or before the CSU Payout Date, the Participant will be paid an amount in cash equal to the applicable Dividend Equivalents on the number of Common Stock Units being paid pursuant to this Section 6.9 for the time period immediately preceding the Change in Control. Payout of Common Stock Units and the Dividend Equivalents shall be made to each Participant:
 
(c) who is employed by the Company on the CSU Payout Date; or
 
(d) whose employment relationship with the Company is terminated:
 
(1) as a result of any Qualifying Termination prior to the CSU Payout Date; or
 
(2) as a result of death, permanent disability or retirement (as each is determined by the Committee), that has occurred prior to the CSU Payout Date.
 
The Committee may establish, at the time of the grant of Common Stock Units, other conditions which must be met for payout to occur. These conditions shall be set forth in the Committee's resolution granting the Common Stock Units and in the Agreement with the holders.
 
 
 
7.1 . Each award under the Plan shall be subject to the requirement that if, at any time, the Committee shall determine that:
General Restriction
 
(a) the listing, registration or qualification of the shares of Common Stock subject or related thereto upon any securities exchange or under any state or Federal law; or
 
(b) the consent or approval of any government regulatory body; or
 
(c) an agreement by the recipient of an award with respect to the disposition of shares of Common Stock,
 
is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of such award or the issue or purchase of shares of Common Stock thereunder, then such award may not be consummated in whole or in part unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent, approval or agreement shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee.
 
7.2 . Awards under the Plan shall not be assignable or transferable by the recipient thereof, except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution except as otherwise determined by the Committee. Accordingly, during the life of the recipient, such award shall be exercisable only by such person or by such person's guardian or legal representative, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Non-Assignability
 
7.3 . Nothing in the Plan or in any agreement entered into pursuant to the Plan shall confer upon any Participant the right to continue in the employment of the Company, to continue to be nominated or serve on the Board of Directors, or affect any right which the Company may have to terminate the employment of such Participant. If an Affiliate ceases to be an Affiliate as a result of the sale or other disposition by Sunoco, Inc. or one of its continuing Affiliates of its ownership interest in the former Affiliate, or
Right to Terminate Employment; Effect of Disaffiliation
 
otherwise, then individuals who remain employed by such former Affiliate thereafter shall be considered for all purposes under the Plan to have terminated their employment relationship with the Company.
 
7.4 . The Committee's determinations under the Plan (including without limitation, determinations of the persons to receive awards, the form, amount and timing of such awards, the terms and provisions of such awards, and the agreements evidencing same) need not be uniform and may be made by it selectively among persons who receive, or are eligible to receive, awards under the Plan, whether or not such persons are similarly situated.
Non-Uniform Determinations
 
7.5 . The recipient of any award under the Plan shall have no rights as a shareholder with respect thereto unless and until shares of Common Stock are issued on behalf of such recipient in "book-entry" form, in the records of the Company's transfer agent and registrar, or certificates have been issued for such shares.
Rights as a Shareholder
 
7.6 . The Committee shall be entitled to make such rules, regulations and determinations as it deems appropriate under the Plan in respect of any leave of absence taken by the recipient of any award. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee shall be entitled to determine (a) whether or not any such leave of absence shall constitute a termination of employment within the meaning of the Plan and (b) the impact, if any, of any such leave of absence on awards under the Plan theretofore made to any recipient who takes such leaves of absence.
Leaves of Absence
 
7.7 . The Committee shall be entitled to make such rules, regulations, determinations and awards as it deems appropriate in respect of any employee who becomes eligible to participate in the Plan or any portion thereof after the commencement of an award or incentive period.
Newly Eligible Employees
 
7.8 . In any event of any change in the outstanding Common Stock by reason of a stock dividend or distribution, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or the like, the Committee may appropriately adjust the number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued under the Plan, the number of shares of Common Stock subject to Options theretofore granted under the Plan, the Option Price of Options theretofore granted under the Plan, the number of Common Stock Units theretofore awarded under the Plan and any and all other matters deemed appropriate by the Committee.
Adjustments
 
7.9 .
Amendment of the Plan
 
(a) The Committee may, without further action by the shareholders and without receiving further consideration from the Participants, amend this Plan or condition or modify awards under this Plan in response to changes in securities or other laws or
 
rules, regulations or regulatory interpretations thereof applicable to this Plan or to comply with stock exchange rules or requirements.
 
(b) The Committee may at any time, and from time to time, modify or amend the Plan, or any award granted under the Plan, in any respect; , that, without shareholder approval the Committee may not:
provided, however
 
(1) increase the maximum award levels established in Section 2.7, including the maximum number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued under the Plan (other than increases pursuant to Section 7.8);
 
(2) extend the term during which an Option may be exercised beyond ten years from the date of grant; or
 
(3) alter the terms of any Option to reduce the Option Price, or cancel any outstanding Option award and replace it with a new Option, having a lower Option Price, where the economic effect would be the same as reducing the Option Price of the cancelled Option.
 
Except as provided in Section 7.9(a) above, no termination, modification or amendment of the Plan (or any award granted under the Plan), shall, without the consent of a Participant, affect the Participant's rights under an award previously granted.
 

Exhibit 10.5
 
 
 
This Common Stock Unit Agreement (the "Agreement"), entered into as of (the "Agreement Date"), by and between Sunoco, Inc. ("Sunoco") and , an employee of Sunoco or one of its Affiliates (the "Participant");
                    
                    
 
 
WHEREAS, in order to make certain awards to key employees and directors of Sunoco and its Affiliates, Sunoco maintains the Sunoco, Inc. Long-Term Performance Enhancement Plan II (the "Plan"), approved by shareholders at Sunoco's 2001 Annual Meeting; and
 
WHEREAS, the Plan is administered by a Committee (the "Committee") appointed by Sunoco's Board of Directors and consisting of at least two (2) members of such Board, each of whom meets the applicable requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code; and
 
WHEREAS, the Committee has determined to make an award to the Participant of Common Stock Units ("CSUs"), representing rights to receive shares of Common Stock which are subject to a risk of forfeiture by the Participant, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Plan; and
 
WHEREAS, the Participant has determined to accept such award;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, Sunoco and the Participant each, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
Any initially capitalized terms and phrases used in this Agreement but not otherwise defined herein, shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Applicable federal, state and local taxes shall be withheld in accordance with Section 2.6 hereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Such amount will be reduced by the applicable federal, state and local withholding taxes due, as provided in Section 2.6 hereof.
 
 
 
The cash or stock, as the case may be, shall be paid out to the Participant no later than the earlier of (i) ninety (90) days following the date of occurrence of such Change in Control or (ii) two and one-half (2-1/2) months following the end of the calendar year in which the date of such Change in Control occurs (the "CSU Payout Date"), regardless of whether the applicable Performance Period has expired or whether the applicable Performance Goals have been met.
 
 
On or before the CSU Payout Date, the Participant will be paid an amount in cash equal to the applicable Dividend Equivalents on the number of CSUs being paid pursuant to this Section 1.6 for the time period immediately preceding the Change in Control.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Participant's CSUs and the related Dividend Equivalents will remain subject to adjustment for any Performance Factors in accordance with Exhibit _________ hereto, and will be paid out only as, if, and when the applicable Performance Goals have been met, just as though the Participant had continued in the employment of Sunoco or one of its Affiliates through the end of the applicable Performance Period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound hereby, have executed this Agreement as of the day first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 10.6
 
 
 
This Common Stock Unit Agreement (the "Agreement"), entered into as of (the "Agreement Date"), by and between Sunoco, Inc. ("Sunoco") and , an employee of Sunoco or one of its Affiliates (the "Participant");
                    
                    
 
 
WHEREAS, in order to make certain awards to key employees and directors of Sunoco and its Affiliates, Sunoco maintains the Sunoco, Inc. Long-Term Performance Enhancement Plan II (the "Plan"), approved by shareholders at Sunoco's 2001 Annual Meeting; and
 
WHEREAS, the Plan is administered by a Committee (the "Committee") appointed by Sunoco's Board of Directors and consisting of at least two (2) members of such Board, each of whom meets the applicable requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code; and
 
WHEREAS, the Committee has determined to make an award to the Participant of Common Stock Units ("CSUs"), representing rights to receive shares of Common Stock which are subject to a risk of forfeiture by the Participant, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Plan; and
 
WHEREAS, the Participant has determined to accept such award;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, Sunoco and the Participant each, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
Any initially capitalized terms and phrases used in this Agreement but not otherwise defined herein, shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Applicable federal, state and local taxes shall be withheld in accordance with Section 2.6 hereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Such amount will be reduced by the applicable federal, state and local withholding taxes due, as provided in Section 2.6 hereof.
 
 
 
The cash or stock, as the case may be, shall be paid out to the Participant no later than the earlier of (i) ninety (90) days following the date of occurrence of such Change in Control or (ii) two and one-half (2-1/2) months following the end of the calendar year in which the date of such Change in Control occurs (the "CSU Payout Date"), regardless of whether the applicable Performance Period has expired or whether the applicable Performance Goals have been met.
 
 
On or before the CSU Payout Date, the Participant will be paid an amount in cash equal to the applicable Dividend Equivalents on the number of CSUs being paid pursuant to this Section 1.6 for the time period immediately preceding the Change in Control.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Participant's CSUs and the related Dividend Equivalents will remain subject to adjustment for any Performance Factors in accordance with Exhibit hereto, and will be paid out only as, if, and when the applicable Performance Goals have been met, just as though the Participant had continued in the employment of Sunoco or one of its Affiliates through the end of the applicable Performance Period.
                    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound hereby, have executed this Agreement as of the day first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 10.7
 
 
 
This Common Stock Unit Agreement (the "Agreement"), entered into as of (the "Agreement Date"), by and between Sunoco, Inc. ("Sunoco") and , an employee of the Sunoco or one of its Affiliates (the "Participant");
                            
                                        
 
 
WHEREAS, in order to make certain awards to key employees of Sunoco and its Affiliates, Sunoco maintains the Sunoco, Inc. Long-Term Performance Enhancement Plan II (the "Plan"), approved by shareholders at Sunoco's 2001 Annual Meeting; and
 
WHEREAS, the Plan is administered by a Committee (the "Committee") appointed by the Sunoco's Board of Directors and consisting of at least two (2) members of such Board, each of whom meets the applicable requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code; and
 
WHEREAS, the Committee has determined to grant to Participant, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Plan, an award (the "Award") of Common Stock Units ("CSUs"), representing rights to receive shares of Common Stock which are subject to a risk of forfeiture by the Participant, with the payout of such CSUs being conditioned upon the Participant's continued employment with Sunoco or one of its Affiliates through the end of a three-year vesting period; and
 
WHEREAS, the Participant has determined to accept such Award;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, Sunoco and the Participant each, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
Any initially capitalized terms and phrases used in this Agreement but not otherwise defined herein, shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Applicable federal, state and local taxes shall be withheld in accordance with Section 2.6 hereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Such amount will be reduced by the applicable federal, state and local withholding taxes due, as provided in Section 2.6 hereof.
 
 
 
The cash or stock, as the case may be, shall be paid out to the Participant no later than the earlier of (i) ninety (90) days following the
 
date of occurrence of such Change in Control or (ii) two and one-half (2-1/2) months following the end of the calendar year in which the date of such Change in Control occurs (the "CSU Payout Date"), regardless of whether the applicable Vesting Period has expired.
 
 
On or before the CSU Payout Date, the Participant will be paid an amount in cash equal to the value of the Dividend Equivalent amounts, if any, credited to the Participant immediately preceding the Change in Control.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Instead, the Participant's CSUs and related Dividend Equivalents shall remain and be paid out as though the Participant had continued in the employment of Sunoco or one of its Affiliates through the end of the applicable Vesting Period, and shall be paid on the first day of the second month after the date on which the employment relationship between Participant and the Company is terminated as provided above in this Section 1.6(a).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound hereby, have executed this Agreement as of the day first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 10.8
 
 
 
This Stock Option and Limited Rights Agreement (the "Agreement") entered into as of (the "Agreement Date"), by and between Sunoco, Inc. ("Sunoco") and , who is an employee of Sunoco or one of its Affiliates (the "Participant");
                                        
                                        
 
 
WHEREAS, in order to make certain awards to key employees and directors of Sunoco and its Affiliates, Sunoco maintains the Sunoco, Inc. Long-Term Performance Enhancement Plan II (the "Plan"), approved by shareholders at Sunoco's 2001 Annual Meeting; and
 
WHEREAS, the Plan is administered by a Committee (the "Committee") appointed by Sunoco's Board of Directors and consisting of at least two (2) members of such Board, each of whom meets the applicable requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code; and
 
WHEREAS, the Board and/or Committee has determined to make the following award to the Participant pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Plan:
 
(1) an option to purchase shares of common stock of Sunoco; and
 
(2) certain limited appreciation rights in tandem with such option; and
 
WHEREAS, the Participant has determined to accept such award;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, Sunoco and the Participant each intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
Any initially capitalized terms and phrases used in this Agreement but not otherwise defined herein, shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, however, the Stock Option will be canceled immediately where the Participant's employment has been terminated at any time for Just Cause.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
accompanied by duly executed stock powers to transfer the same to Sunoco; that before they may be used as payment of the Option Price, shares of Common Stock issued under:
provided, however,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, six (6) months after the exercise of the Stock Option, such shares of Common Stock may be used as payment of the Option Price of shares issued upon the exercise of other Stock Options. However, the shares will be issued as restricted shares.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
that the Limited Rights awarded in tandem with such Stock Option shall not terminate and such Limited Rights shall remain exercisable during the Exercise Period for any Participant whose employment relationship with Sunoco or one of its Affiliates has been terminated as a result of any Qualifying Termination.
, ,
provided
however
 
Under no circumstances shall the exercise period set forth in this Section 1.6 extend to or beyond the Expiration Date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Limited Rights shall not be exercisable, either in whole or in part, on or after the Limited Rights Expiration Date. Unless fully exercised by the Limited Rights Expiration Date, the Limited Rights shall automatically be canceled to the extent not yet exercised.
 
 
 
 
 
Within ninety (90) days after the date of exercise, Sunoco will pay to the Participant, for each Limited Right exercised, the amount of payment as determined pursuant to Section 2.5 below, reduced by an amount equal to the taxes which Sunoco is required by law to withhold by reason of such exercise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound hereby, have executed this Agreement as of the day first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 10.9
 
 
 
 
 
As used in this Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings herein specified:
 
1.1 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 7.1.
95% Withdrawal
 
1.2 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 1.4(c).
Business Combination
 
1.3 - shall mean the entry in a Deferred Compensation Account of a credit equal to One Dollar ($1.00).
Cash Unit
 
1.4 - shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events:
Change in Control
 
(a) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (1) the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (2) the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); , , that, for purposes of this Section (a), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (A) any acquisition directly from the Company, (B) any acquisition by the Company, (C) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any company controlled by, controlling or under common control with the Company, or (D) any acquisition by any entity pursuant to a transaction that complies with Sections (c)(1), (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this definition;
provided
however
 
(b) Individuals who, as of September 6, 2001, constitute the Board of Directors (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors; , , that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board of Directors;
provided
however
 
(c) Consummation of a reorganization, merger, statutory share exchange or consolidation or similar corporate transaction involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries, a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or the
 
acquisition of assets or stock of another entity by the Company or any of its subsidiaries (each, a "Business Combination"), in each case unless, following such Business Combination, (1) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities that were the beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of the then-outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation that, as a result of such transaction, owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (2) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of such corporation, except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (3) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board of Directors providing for such Business Combination; or
 
(d) Approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
1.5 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 7.1
Change in Control Election
 
1.6 - shall mean the Governance Committee of the Board of Directors of Sunoco, Inc.
Committee
 
1.7 - shall mean Sunoco, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation. The term "Company" shall include any successor to Sunoco, Inc., any subsidiary or affiliate which has adopted the Plan, or a corporation succeeding to the business of Sunoco, Inc., or any subsidiary or affiliate by merger, consolidation, liquidation or purchase of assets or stock or similar transaction.
Company
 
1.8 - shall mean those fees and retainers payable by the Company to a Participant in consideration for his or her service as a Director.
Compensation
 
1.9 - shall mean, with respect to any Participant, the total amount of the Company's liability for payment of voluntary deferred compensation to the Participant under this Plan, including any accumulated interest and/or Dividend Equivalents.
Deferred Compensation Account
 
1.10 - shall mean and refer to the written election by a Participant, in the form prescribed by the Committee, to voluntarily defer the payment of all or a portion of such Participant's Compensation under this Plan pursuant to Article II hereof.
Deferred Payment Election Form
 
1.11 - shall mean a member of the Board of Directors of Sunoco, Inc.
Director
 
1.12 - shall mean the entry in a Deferred Compensation Account or a Restricted Deferred Compensation Account of a dividend credit with respect to a Share Unit, each Dividend Equivalent being equal to the dividend paid from time to time on a Share.
Dividend Equivalent
 
1.13 - shall mean and refer to the written commitment by a Participant, in the form prescribed by the Committee, to mandatorily defer the payment of all of the Yearly Credit awarded to such Participant under this Plan pursuant to Article IV hereof.
Form of Continuing Deferral
 
1.14 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 1.4(b).
Incumbent Board
 
1.15 - shall mean the entry in a Deferred Compensation Account of an interest credit with respect to a Cash Unit, compounded on the basis of the balance in the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account, applying the interest factor approved by the Committee each year for such purpose.
Interest Equivalent
 
1.16 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 1.4(a).
Outstanding Company Common Stock
 
1.17 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 1.4(a).
Outstanding Company Voting Securities
 
1.18 - shall mean a Director who has elected to defer the receipt of compensation or a Director who is required to defer the receipt of the Restricted Share Units in accordance with the terms of this Plan.
Participant
 
1.19 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 1.4(a).
Person
 
1.20 - shall mean this Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan I, as it may be amended from time to time pursuant to Articles XI and XIV, and shall be effective for deferrals of Compensation pursuant to Article III and crediting of Restricted Share Units pursuant to Article IV, for periods ending prior to January 1, 2005.
Plan
 
1.21 - shall mean, with respect to any Participant, the total amount of the Company's liability for payment of Restricted Share Units to the Participant under this Plan.
Restricted Deferred Compensation Account
 
1.22 - shall mean the entry in a Restricted Deferred Compensation Account of a credit equal to one Share that will be restricted until death, retirement or termination of Board service.
Restricted Share Unit
 
1.23 - shall mean a share of the Company's authorized voting Common Stock ($1.00 par value per share) and any share or shares of stock of the Company hereafter issued or issuable in substitution or exchange for each such share.
Share
 
1.24 - shall mean the entry in a Deferred Compensation Account of a credit equal to one Share.
Share Unit
 
 
 
2.1 Prior to the beginning of any calendar quarter, a Participant may elect to defer all or a portion of the Compensation that would otherwise be paid to the Participant in the next succeeding calendar quarter, by filing a written notice of election with the Committee on the form(s) prescribed by the Committee. Any such deferral election shall apply only to Compensation to be earned on or after the first day of the calendar quarter following the calendar quarter in which the election is received by the Committee, but in no event will apply to Compensation to be earned in calendar quarters beginning on or after January 1, 2005. An election to defer, made in accordance with this Article II shall be irrevocable. The deferral election form(s) also will permit the Participant to specify:
Election to Defer.
 
(a) the percentage of Compensation to be deferred;
 
(b) the form of deferral, being either Cash Units, Share Units, or a combination of the two and the percentage allocations of such;
 
(c) the selection of a method of payment as set forth in Article III; and
 
(d) the designation of a beneficiary as set forth in Article V.
 
Without any further action by Participant, the choices specified in the Participant's Deferred Payment Election Form regarding the percentage of Compensation deferred, the form of deferral, the designation of a beneficiary, and the method of payment shall each continue and be applied from calendar quarter to calendar quarter to amounts yet to be deferred. Until further express written notification, on a form prescribed by the Committee, to the contrary, these choices shall continue to be applied to amounts to be credited to such Deferred Compensation Account balance prospectively.
 
2.2 . After payment or distribution of amounts credited to the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account has commenced, the Participant may not change the period of time for which such amounts are payable. However, the Participant may convert installment payments to a lump sum distribution subject to a penalty equal to a five percent (5%) reduction in the balance of the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account, which shall be forfeited to the Company.
Change in Method of Payment Following Commencement of Distribution or Payment
 
2.3 . The amount of Compensation to be deferred shall be designated by the Participant as a percentage of the Director's Compensation in multiples of five percent (5%) but shall not be less than ten percent (10%).
Amount of Deferral
 
2.4 . Except as otherwise determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, an election to defer must be filed and received by the Committee by the end of the calendar quarter preceding the calendar quarter in which the Compensation is to be earned. A new Director may also elect to defer Compensation prior to the commencement of his or her term in office.
Time of Election
 
 
 
3.1 . Compensation deferred hereunder shall be credited to a Deferred Compensation Account established by the Company for each Participant. The Participant must elect to convert the deferred compensation to either Cash Units or Share Units, which shall be credited to a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account as set forth in the Plan.
Creation of Voluntary Deferred Compensation Accounts
 
3.2 . Share Units shall be credited to a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account at the time the Compensation would otherwise have been paid had no election to defer been made. The number of Share Units to be credited to the Deferred Compensation Account shall be determined by dividing the Compensation by the average closing price for Shares as published in the Wall Street Journal under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions" for the ten (10) day period prior to the day on which the Compensation would otherwise have been paid. Any fractional Share Units shall also be credited to a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account. The number of Share Units in a Deferred Compensation Account shall be appropriately adjusted by the Committee in the event of changes in the Company's outstanding common stock by reason of a stock dividend or distribution, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or the like, and such adjustments shall be conclusive. Share Units shall not entitle any person to the rights of a stockholder.
Crediting Share Units
 
3.3 . Cash Units shall be credited to a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account at the time Compensation would otherwise have been paid had no election to defer been made.
Crediting Cash Units
 
3.4 . For Share Units, the Company shall credit the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account with Dividend Equivalents being equal to the dividends declared on the Company's Shares. The crediting shall occur as of the date on which said dividends are paid. The number of Share Units to be credited to the Deferred Compensation Account shall be calculated by dividing the Dividend Equivalents by the average closing price for Shares as published in the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the period of ten (10) trading days prior to the day on which the dividends are paid on the Company's Shares. Any fractional Share Units shall also be credited to a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account.
Crediting Dividend Equivalents
 
3.5 . For Cash Units credited to their Deferred Compensation Accounts, the Company shall credit the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account on a quarterly basis with an Interest Equivalent.
Crediting Interest Equivalents
 
3.6 . Immediately upon termination of Board service, and so prior to the commencement of any payout or distribution of any amounts hereunder, a Participant may make a one-time election to convert to Cash Units all or a portion of the balance of Share Units in such Participant's Deferred Compensation Account. Any Share Units so converted to Cash Units as a result of this one-time conversion election shall be valued at the average closing price for Shares as published in the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the ten (10) day period immediately prior to such one-time conversion election.
Share Unit Conversion
 
3.7 .
Time of Payment
 
(a) All payments of a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account not in pay status on January 1, 2005 shall be on the first day of the calendar year following termination of Board service. Upon the death of a Director or former Director, prior to the final payment of all amounts credited to his or her Deferred Compensation Account, the balance of the Deferred Compensation Account shall be paid in accordance with Article V. Provided, however, in no event shall any payment or distribution be made within six (6) months of the Compensation being earned.
Benefit Commencement Date.
 
3.8 . For all payments not in pay status on January 1, 2005, a Participant in this part of the Plan shall receive a lump sum payment in cash of all deferred compensation credited to such Participant's Deferred Compensation Account. Share Units credited to the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account shall be valued at the average closing price for Shares as published in the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the period of ten (10) trading days immediately prior to each new calendar year.
Method of Payment
 
 
 
4.1 . Compensation deferred under this Article IV shall be credited to a Restricted Deferred Compensation Account established by the Company for each Participant. The Restricted Deferred Compensation Accounts will be initialized as of February 15, 1996 by transferring to the Plan the present value of the accrued benefits of each Participant in the Non-Employee Directors' Retirement Plan. The present value of these accrued benefits will then be converted into Restricted Share Units. The number of Restricted Share Units to be credited to the Restricted Deferred Compensation Account of each Participant will be determined by using the average closing price for Shares as published in the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the ten (10) business days prior to February 15, 1996. Payout of these Restricted Share Units that has not commenced prior to January 1, 2005 shall commence in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.5(a) of the Plan.
Creation of Restricted Deferred Compensation Accounts
 
4.2 . If the Committee elects to do so, for each year ending before January 1, 2005, in conjunction with either the Participant's election or re-election to the Board, a yearly dollar amount ("Yearly Credit") will be credited to a Participant's Restricted Deferred Compensation Account in the form of Restricted Share Units. The number of Restricted Share Units credited to a Participant's Restricted Deferred Compensation Account shall be determined by dividing the Yearly Credit by the average closing price for Shares as published in the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the ten (10) day period prior to the Company's annual meeting. Any fractional Restricted Share Units shall also be credited to a Participant's Restricted Deferred Compensation Account. The number of Restricted Share Units in a Restricted Deferred Compensation Account shall be appropriately adjusted by the Committee in the event of changes in the Company's outstanding common stock by reason of a stock dividend or distribution, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, split-up, combination, exchange of shares
Crediting Share Units
 
or the like, and such adjustments shall be conclusive. Restricted Share Units shall not entitle any person to the rights of a stockholder.
 
4.3 . The Company shall credit the Participant's Restricted Deferred Compensation Account with Dividend Equivalents being equal to the dividends declared on the Company's Shares. The crediting shall occur as of the date on which said dividends are paid. The number of Restricted Share Units to be credited to the Restricted Deferred Compensation Account shall be calculated by dividing the Dividend Equivalents by the average closing price for Shares as published in the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the period of ten (10) trading days prior to the day on which the dividends are paid on the Company's Shares. Any fractional Restricted Share Units shall also be credited to a Participant's Restricted Deferred Compensation Account.
Crediting Dividend Equivalents
 
4.4 . Immediately upon termination of Board service, and so prior to the commencement of any payout or distribution of any amounts hereunder, a Participant may make a one-time election to convert to Cash Units all or a portion of the balance of Restricted Share Units in such Participant's Restricted Deferred Compensation Account. Any Restricted Share Units so converted to Cash Units as a result of this one-time conversion election shall be valued at the average closing price for Shares as published in the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the period of ten (10) trading days immediately prior to such one-time conversion election.
Restricted Share Unit Conversion
 
4.5 .
Time of Payment
 
(a) All payments of a Participant's Restricted Deferred Compensation Account not in pay status on January 1, 2005 shall be made on the first day of the calendar year following termination of Board service. Upon the death of a Director or former Director, prior to the final payment of all amounts credited to his or her Deferred Compensation Account, the balance of the Restricted Deferred Compensation Account shall be paid in accordance with Article V. Provided, however, in no event shall any payment or distribution be made within six (6) months of the Compensation being earned.
Benefit Commencement Date for Restricted Deferred Compensation Account.
 
(b) At any time prior to the commencement of any payment or distribution of a Participant's Restricted Deferred Compensation Account, such Participant may request in writing to accelerate the receipt of all or a specified portion of such Restricted Deferred Compensation Account amounts to the first day
Acceleration of Benefit Commencement Date Prior to Payment.
 
of any calendar quarter; that such date is at least six (6) months after the end of the quarter in which the Compensation is earned. Any such acceleration will be subject to a penalty equal to a five percent (5%) reduction in the balance of the Participant's Restricted Deferred Compensation Account, which shall be forfeited to the Company.
provided, however,
 
4.6 . For all payments not in pay status on January 1, 2005, a Participant shall receive a lump sum payment in cash of all deferred compensation credited to such Participant's Restricted Deferred Compensation Account. Share Units credited to the Participant's Restricted Deferred Compensation Account shall be valued at the average closing price for Shares as published in the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the period of ten (10) trading days immediately prior to each new calendar year.
Method of Payment
 
4.7 . After payment or distribution of amounts credited to the Participant's Restricted Deferred Compensation Account has commenced, the Participant may not change the period of time for which such amounts are payable. However, the Participant may convert installment payments to a lump sum distribution subject to a penalty equal to a five percent (5%) reduction in the balance of the Participant's Restricted Deferred Compensation Account, which shall be forfeited to the Company.
Change in Method of Payment Following Commencement of Distribution or Payment
 
 
 
5.1 . The Participant shall name one or more beneficiaries and contingent beneficiaries to receive any payments due Participant at the time of death. No designation of beneficiaries shall be valid unless in writing signed by the Participant, dated and filed with the Committee during the lifetime of such Participant. A subsequent beneficiary designation will cancel all beneficiary designations signed and filed earlier under this Plan, and such new beneficiary designation shall be applied to all amounts previously credited to the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account (or Restricted Deferred Compensation Account, as the case may be), as well as to any amounts to be credited to such Participant's Deferred Compensation Account (or Restricted Deferred Compensation Account, as the case may be), prospectively. In case of a failure of designation, or the death of the designated beneficiary without a designated successor, distribution shall be paid in one lump sum to the estate of the Participant.
Designation of Beneficiary
 
5.2 . The interest in any amounts hereunder of a spouse who has predeceased the Participant shall automatically pass to the Participant and shall not be transferable by such spouse in any manner, including but not limited to such spouse's will, nor shall such interest pass under the laws of intestate succession.
Spouse's Interest
 
5.3 . Upon the Participant's death, any balances in the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account and Restricted Deferred Compensation Account shall be paid in a lump sum on the later of the first day of the calendar year following the Participant's death or the date that is thirty (30) days after the Participant's death.
Survivor Benefits
 
 
 
All payments of deferred compensation shall be paid in cash from the general funds of the Company and the Company shall be under no obligation to segregate any assets in connection with the maintenance of a Deferred Compensation Account or Restricted Deferred Compensation Account, nor shall anything contained in this Plan nor any action taken pursuant to the Plan create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and Participant. Title to the beneficial ownership of any assets, whether cash or investments, which the Company may designate to pay the amount credited to the Deferred Compensation Account or a Restricted Deferred Compensation Account shall at all times remain in the Company and Participant shall not have any property interest whatsoever in any specific assets of the Company. Participant's interest in the Deferred Compensation Account or a Restricted Deferred Compensation Account shall be limited to the right to receive payments pursuant to the terms of this Plan and such rights to receive shall be no greater than the right of any other unsecured general creditor of the Company.
 
 
 
7.1 . Anything to the contrary in this Plan notwithstanding, at any time a Participant may make an election (a "Change in Control Election") to receive, in a single lump sum payment, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, the balance of his or her Deferred Compensation Account and Restricted Deferred Compensation Account, as of the valuation date immediately preceding the Change in Control.
Effect of Change in Control on Payment
 
Any Change in Control Election or revocation of an existing Change in Control Election shall be null and void if a Change in Control occurs within 12 months after it is made, and the Participant's most recent preceding Change in Control Election, if timely made and not revoked at least 12 months before the Change in Control, shall remain in force. Each such election or revocation shall be in writing and in conformity with such rules as may be prescribed by the Committee. If no Change in Control Election is in force upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, from the date of such Change in Control and for twelve (12) months thereafter, each Participant, whether or not he or she is still an employee of the Company, shall have the right to withdraw, in a single lump-sum cash payment, an amount equal to ninety-five percent (95%) of the balance of each of his or her Deferred Compensation Account and Restricted Deferred Compensation Account (a "95% Withdrawal"), as of the valuation date immediately preceding the date of withdrawal; provided, however, that if this option is exercised, such Participant will forfeit to the Company the remaining five percent (5%) of the balance of each such account (as of the valuation date immediately preceding the date of withdrawal) from which the funds are withdrawn as a penalty. Payments pursuant to a 95% Withdrawal shall be made as soon as practicable, but no later than thirty (30) days after the Participant notifies the Committee in writing that he/she is exercising his/her right to undertake a 95% Withdrawal.
 
7.2 . On or after a Change in Control, or before, but in connection with, a Change in Control, no action, including by way of example and not of limitation, the amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan, shall be taken which would adversely affect the rights of any Participant or the operation of this Article VII with respect to the balance in the Participant's Accounts immediately before such action.
Amendment on or after Change in Control
 
7.3 . The Company shall pay all legal fees and related expenses incurred by a Participant in seeking to obtain or enforce any payment, benefit or right such Participant may be entitled to under the plan after a Change in Control. The Participant shall reimburse the Company for such fees and expenses at such time as a court of competent jurisdiction, or another independent third party having similar authority, determines that the Participant's claim was frivolously brought without reasonable expectation of success on the merits thereof.
Attorney's Fees
 
 
 
Participant shall not have the right to sell, assign, transfer or otherwise convey or encumber in whole or in part the right to receive any payment under this Plan except in accordance with Article V.
 
 
 
The terms and conditions of this Plan shall be binding upon the heirs, beneficiaries and other successors in interest of Participant to the same extent that said terms and conditions are binding upon the Participant.
 
 
 
The Plan shall be administered by the Committee which may make such rules and regulations and establish such procedures for the administration of this Plan as it deems appropriate. In the event of any dispute or disagreements as to the interpretation of this Plan or of any rule, regulation or procedure or as to any questioned right or obligation arising from or related to this Plan, the decision of the Committee shall be final and binding upon all persons.
 
 
 
The Plan may be terminated at any time by the Board of Directors of Sunoco, Inc. and may be amended at any time by the Committee provided, however, that no such amendment or termination shall adversely affect the rights of Participants or their beneficiaries with respect to amounts credited to Deferred Compensation Accounts or Restricted Deferred Compensation Accounts prior to such amendment or termination, without the written consent of the Participant.
 
 
 
In the case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Plan shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect the remaining provisions shall be construed in order to effectuate the purposes hereof and the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
 
 
This Plan shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, no Director may elect to defer any portion of his or her Compensation payable by the Company to his or her Deferred Compensation Account after December 31, 2004 pursuant to Article III of the Plan, and no amounts may be credited by the Committee to a Director's Restricted Deferred Compensation Account under Article IV of the Plan after December 31, 2004. It is intended that all amounts deferred by or with respect to a Director after December 31, 2004 will be pursuant to the Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan II. It is further intended that all amounts credited to Participants' Deferred Compensation Accounts and Restricted Deferred Compensation Accounts under the Plan made before January 1, 2005 (including Dividend Equivalents and Interest Equivalents credited with respect to such deferrals) not be subject to IRC Section 409A, and no action shall be taken that would constitute a material modification to a benefit or right under the Plan as existing on October 3, 2004, as set forth under Proposed Regulation 1.409A-6(a)(4), or such other guidance as may be applicable under IRC Section 409A.
 

Exhibit 10.10
 
 
 
 
 
As used in this Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings herein specified:
 
1.1 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 1.3(c).
Business Combination
 
1.2 - shall mean the entry in a Deferred Compensation Account of a credit equal to One Dollar ($1.00).
Cash Unit
 
1.3 - shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events:
Change in Control
 
(a) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (1) the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (2) the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); , , that, for purposes of this Section (a), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (A) any acquisition directly from the Company, (B) any acquisition by the Company, (C) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any company controlled by, controlling or under common control with the Company, or (D) any acquisition by any entity pursuant to a transaction that complies with Sections (c)(1), (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this definition;
provided
however
 
(b) Individuals who, as of January 1, 2005, constitute the Board of Directors (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors; , , that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board of Directors;
provided
however
 
(c) Consummation of a reorganization, merger, statutory share exchange or consolidation or similar corporate transaction involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries, a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or the acquisition of assets or stock of another entity by the Company or any of its subsidiaries (each,
a "Business Combination"), in each case unless, following such Business Combination, (1) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities that were the beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of the then-outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation that, as a result of such transaction, owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (2) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of such corporation, except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (3) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board of Directors providing for such Business Combination; or
 
(d) Approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
1.4 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 7.1
Change in Control Election
 
1.5 - shall mean the Governance Committee of the Board of Directors of Sunoco, Inc.
Committee
 
1.6 - shall mean Sunoco, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation. The term "Company" shall include any successor to Sunoco, Inc., any subsidiary or affiliate which has adopted the Plan, or a corporation succeeding to the business of Sunoco, Inc., or any subsidiary or affiliate by merger, consolidation, liquidation or purchase of assets or stock or similar transaction.
Company
 
1.7 - shall mean those fees and retainers payable by the Company to a Participant in consideration for his or her service as a Director.
Compensation
1.8 - shall mean, with respect to any Participant, the total amount of the Company's liability for payment of voluntary deferred compensation to the Participant under this Plan, including any accumulated interest and/or Dividend Equivalents.
Deferred Compensation Account
 
1.9 - shall mean and refer to the written election by a Participant, in the form prescribed by the Committee, to voluntarily defer the payment of all or a portion of such Participant's Compensation under this Plan pursuant to Article II hereof.
Deferred Payment Election Form
 
1.10 - shall mean a member of the Board of Directors of Sunoco, Inc.
Director
 
1.11 - shall mean the entry in a Deferred Compensation Account or a Restricted Deferred Compensation Account of a dividend credit with respect to a Share Unit, each Dividend Equivalent being equal to the dividend paid from time to time on a Share.
Dividend Equivalent
 
1.12 - shall mean and refer to the written commitment by a Participant, in the form prescribed by the Committee, to mandatorily defer the payment of all of the Yearly Credit awarded to such Participant under this Plan pursuant to Article IV hereof.
Form of Continuing Deferral
 
1.13 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 1.3(b).
Incumbent Board
 
1.14 - shall mean the entry in a Deferred Compensation Account of an interest credit with respect to a Cash Unit, compounded on the basis of the balance in the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account, applying the interest factor approved by the Committee each year for such purpose.
Interest Equivalent
 
1.15 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 1.3(a).
Outstanding Company Common Stock
 
1.16 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 1.3(a).
Outstanding Company Voting Securities
 
1.17 - shall mean a Director who has elected to defer the receipt of compensation or a Director who is required to defer the receipt of the Restricted Share Units in accordance with the terms of this Plan.
Participant
 
1.18 - shall have the meaning provided herein at Section 1.3(a).
Person
 
1.19 - shall mean this Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan II, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall be effective for deferrals of Compensation pursuant to Article III and crediting of Restricted Share Units pursuant to Article IV, for periods beginning after December 31, 2004.
Plan
 
1.20 - shall mean, with respect to any Participant, the total amount of the Company's liability for payment of Restricted Share Units to the Participant under this Plan.
Restricted Deferred Compensation Account
1.21 - shall mean the entry in a Restricted Deferred Compensation Account of a credit equal to one Share that will be restricted until death, retirement or termination of Board service.
Restricted Share Unit
 
1.22 - shall mean a share of the Company's authorized voting Common Stock ($1.00 par value per share) and any share or shares of stock of the Company hereafter issued or issuable in substitution or exchange for each such share.
Share
 
1.23 - shall mean the entry in a Deferred Compensation Account of a credit equal to one Share.
Share Unit
 
 
 
2.1 Prior to the beginning of each calendar year beginning after December 31, 2004, a Participant may elect to defer all or a portion of the Compensation attributable to services to be performed by the Participant in the next succeeding calendar year, by filing a written notice of election with the Committee on the form(s) prescribed by the Committee. Any such deferral election shall apply only to Compensation attributable to services to be performed on or after the first day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the election is received by the Committee. An election to defer, made in accordance with this Article II shall be irrevocable as of December 31 of the year preceding the calendar year in which the Participant earns the Compensation. All elections made by Directors on or before December 31, 2004 with respect to Compensation earned in calendar year 2005 shall be treated as made under the Plan (and not under the Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan I), and such elections to the extent inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, shall be limited by and administered in accordance with, the terms of the Plan. A separate election form shall be filed for each calendar year. The deferral election form(s) also will permit the Participant to specify:
Election to Defer.
 
(a) the percentage of Compensation to be deferred;
 
(b) the form of deferral, being either Cash Units, Share Units, or a combination of the two and the percentage allocations of such; and
 
(c) the designation of a beneficiary as set forth in Article V.
 
2.2 . The amount of Compensation to be deferred shall be designated by the Participant as a percentage of the Director's Compensation in multiples of five percent (5%) but shall not be less than ten percent (10%).
Amount of Deferral
2.3 . An election to defer must be filed and received by the Committee by the end of the calendar year preceding the calendar year in which the services are performed to which the Compensation is attributable. A new Director may also elect to defer Compensation attributable to his or her first year of Board service prior to the commencement of his or her term in office, and such election shall be irrevocable as of the date immediately preceding such Director's commencement of his or her term in office.
Time of Election
 
 
 
3.1 . Compensation deferred hereunder shall be credited to a Deferred Compensation Account established by the Company for each Participant. The Participant must elect to convert the deferred compensation to either Cash Units or Share Units, which shall be credited to a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account as set forth in the Plan.
Creation of Voluntary Deferred Compensation Accounts
 
3.2 . Share Units shall be credited to a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account at the time the Compensation would otherwise have been paid had no election to defer been made. The number of Share Units to be credited to the Deferred Compensation Account shall be determined by dividing the Compensation by the average closing price for Shares as published in the Wall Street Journal under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions" for the period of ten (10) trading days immediately prior to the day on which the Compensation would otherwise have been paid. Any fractional Share Units shall also be credited to a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account. The number of Share Units in a Deferred Compensation Account shall be appropriately adjusted by the Committee in the event of changes in the Company's outstanding common stock by reason of a stock dividend or distribution, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or the like, and such adjustments shall be conclusive. Share Units shall not entitle any person to the rights of a stockholder.
Crediting Share Units
 
3.3 . Cash Units shall be credited to a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account at the time Compensation would otherwise have been paid had no election to defer been made.
Crediting Cash Units
 
3.4 . For Share Units, the Company shall credit the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account with Dividend Equivalents being equal to the dividends declared on the Company's Shares. The crediting shall occur as of the date on which said dividends are paid. The number of Share Units to be credited to the Deferred Compensation
Crediting Dividend Equivalents
Account shall be calculated by dividing the Dividend Equivalents by the average closing price for Shares as published in the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the period of ten (10) trading days immediately prior to the day on which the dividends are paid on the Company's Shares. Any fractional Share Units shall also be credited to a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account.
 
3.5 . For Cash Units credited to their Deferred Compensation Accounts, the Company shall credit the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account on a quarterly basis with an Interest Equivalent.
Crediting Interest Equivalents
 
3.6 . Immediately upon termination of Board service, and so prior to the commencement of any payout or distribution of any amounts hereunder, a Participant may make a one-time election to convert to Cash Units all or a portion of the balance of Share Units in such Participant's Deferred Compensation Account. Any Share Units so converted to Cash Units as a result of this one-time conversion election shall be valued at the average closing price for Shares as published in the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the period of ten (10) trading days immediately prior to such one-time conversion election.
Share Unit Conversion
 
3.7 . Except as provided in Article VII hereof, all payments of a Participant's Deferred Compensation Account shall be made on the first day of the calendar year following the date of the Participant's separation from Board service. Upon the death of a Director or former Director prior to the final payment of all amounts credited to his or her Deferred Compensation Account, the balance of his or her Deferred Compensation Account shall be paid in accordance with Article V, on the later of the first day of the calendar year following the year of death, or the date that is thirty (30) days after the Participant's death.
Time of Payment
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, and except as provided in Article VII, in no event shall any payment or distribution be made within six (6) months of the Compensation being earned or awarded.
 
3.8 . A Participant in this portion of the Plan shall receive payment in a lump sum in cash all deferred compensation credited to such Participant's Deferred Compensation Account. Share Units credited to the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account shall be valued at the average closing price for Shares as published in the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the period of ten (10) trading days immediately prior to each new calendar year.
Method of Payment
 
 
4.1 . Compensation deferred under this Article IV shall be credited to a Restricted Deferred Compensation Account established by the Company for each Participant.
Creation of Restricted Deferred Compensation Accounts
 
4.2 . If the Committee elects to do so, prior to the year for which the amount will be credited, for each year beginning after December 31, 2004, in conjunction with either the Participant's election or re-election to the Board, a yearly dollar amount ("Yearly Credit") will be credited to a Participant's Restricted Deferred Compensation Account in the form of Restricted Share Units. The number of Restricted Share Units credited to a Participant's Restricted Deferred Compensation Account shall be determined by dividing the Yearly Credit by the average closing price for Shares as published in the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the period of ten (10) trading days immediately prior to the Company's annual meeting. Any fractional Restricted Share Units shall also be credited to a Participant's Restricted Deferred Compensation Account. The number of Restricted Share Units in a Restricted Deferred Compensation Account shall be appropriately adjusted by the Committee in the event of changes in the Company's outstanding common stock by reason of a stock dividend or distribution, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, split-up, combination, exchange of shares or the like, and such adjustments shall be conclusive. Restricted Share Units shall not entitle any person to the rights of a stockholder.
Crediting Share Units
 
4.3 . The Company shall credit the Participant's Restricted Deferred Compensation Account with Dividend Equivalents being equal to the dividends declared on the Company's Shares. The crediting shall occur as of the date on which said dividends are paid. The number of Restricted Share Units to be credited to the Restricted Deferred Compensation Account shall be calculated by dividing the Dividend Equivalents by the average closing price for Shares as published in the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the period of ten (10) trading days immediately prior to the day on which the dividends are paid on the Company's Shares. Any fractional Restricted Share Units shall also be credited to a Participant's Restricted Deferred Compensation Account.
Crediting Dividend Equivalents
 
4.4 . Immediately upon termination of Board service, and so prior to the commencement of any payout or distribution of any amounts hereunder, a Participant may make a one-time election to convert to Cash Units all or a portion of the balance of Restricted
Restricted Share Unit Conversion
Share Units in such Participant's Restricted Deferred Compensation Account. Any Restricted Share Units so converted to Cash Units as a result of this one-time conversion election shall be valued at the average closing price for Shares as published in the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the period of ten (10) trading days immediately prior to such one-time conversion election.
 
4.5 . All payments of a Participant's Restricted Deferred Compensation Account shall be made on the first day of the year following the date of the Participant's separation from Board service. Upon the death of a Director or former Director, prior to the final payment of all amounts credited to his or her Restricted Deferred Compensation Account, the balance of the Restricted Deferred Compensation Account shall be paid in accordance with Article V, commencing on the later of the first day of the calendar year following the year of death or the date that is thirty (30) days after the Participant's death.
Time of Payment
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event, however, shall any payment or distribution be made within the six (6) months of the Compensation being earned.
 
4.6 . Participant shall receive payment in a lump sum in cash all deferred compensation credited to the Participant's Restricted Deferred Compensation Account. Share Units credited to the Participant's Restricted Deferred Compensation Account shall be valued at the average closing price for Shares as published in the Wall Street Journal (under the caption "New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions") or any other publication selected by the Committee for the period of ten (10) trading days immediately prior to each new calendar year.
Method of Payment
 
 
 
5.1 . The Participant shall name one or more beneficiaries and contingent beneficiaries to receive any payments due Participant at the time of death. No designation of beneficiaries shall be valid unless in writing signed by the Participant, dated and filed with the Committee during the lifetime of such Participant. A subsequent beneficiary designation will cancel all beneficiary designations signed and filed earlier under this Plan, and such new beneficiary designation shall be applied to all amounts previously credited to the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account (or Restricted Deferred Compensation Account, as the case may be), as well as to any amounts to be credited to such Participant's Deferred Compensation Account (or Restricted Deferred Compensation Account, as the case may be),
Designation of Beneficiary
prospectively. In case of a failure of designation, or the death of the designated beneficiary without a designated successor, distribution shall be paid in one lump sum to the estate of the Participant.
 
5.2 . The interest in any amounts hereunder of a spouse who has predeceased the Participant shall automatically pass to the Participant and shall not be transferable by such spouse in any manner, including but not limited to such spouse's will, nor shall such interest pass under the laws of intestate succession.
Spouse's Interest
 
5.3 . Upon the Participant's death, any balances in the Participant's Deferred Compensation Account and Restricted Deferred Compensation Account shall be paid in a lump sum to the designated beneficiary(ies).
Survivor Benefits
 
 
 
All payments of deferred compensation shall be paid in cash from the general funds of the Company and the Company shall be under no obligation to segregate any assets in connection with the maintenance of a Deferred Compensation Account or Restricted Deferred Compensation Account, nor shall anything contained in this Plan nor any action taken pursuant to the Plan create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and Participant. Title to the beneficial ownership of any assets, whether cash or investments, which the Company may designate to pay the amount credited to the Deferred Compensation Account or a Restricted Deferred Compensation Account shall at all times remain in the Company and Participant shall not have any property interest whatsoever in any specific assets of the Company. Participant's interest in the Deferred Compensation Account or a Restricted Deferred Compensation Account shall be limited to the right to receive payments pursuant to the terms of this Plan and such rights to receive shall be no greater than the right of any other unsecured general creditor of the Company.
 
 
 
7.1 . Anything to the contrary in this Plan notwithstanding, at any time prior to the calendar year in which the services are performed to which Compensation is attributable, a Participant may make an election (a "Change in Control Election") to receive, in a single lump sum payment, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control (provided that the Change in Control also is a change in control for purposes of IRC
Effect of Change in Control on Payment
Section 409A, as amended, and the regulations issued thereunder), the balance of his or her Deferred Compensation Account and Restricted Deferred Compensation Account attributable to such Compensation, determined as of the valuation date immediately preceding the Change in Control.
 
7.2 . On or after a Change in Control, or before, but in connection with, a Change in Control, no action, including by way of example and not of limitation, the amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan, shall be taken which would adversely affect the rights of any Participant or the operation of this Article VII with respect to the balance in the Participant's Accounts immediately before such action.
Amendment on or after Change in Control
 
7.3 . The Company shall pay all legal fees and related expenses incurred by a Participant in seeking to obtain or enforce any payment, benefit or right such Participant may be entitled to under the plan after a Change in Control. The Participant shall reimburse the Company for such fees and expenses at such time as a court of competent jurisdiction, or another independent third party having similar authority, determines that the Participant's claim was frivolously brought without reasonable expectation of success on the merits thereof.
Attorney's Fees
 
 
 
Upon a determination that any amounts deferred under the Plan are included in the gross income of a Participant pursuant to IRC Section 409A, as amended, and the regulations issued thereunder, such amounts shall be distributed to the Participant.
 
 
 
Participant shall not have the right to sell, assign, transfer or otherwise convey or encumber in whole or in part the right to receive any payment under this Plan except in accordance with Article V.
 
 
 
The terms and conditions of this Plan shall be binding upon the heirs, beneficiaries and other successors in interest of Participant to the same extent that said terms and conditions are binding upon the Participant.
 
 
The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which may make such rules and regulations and establish such procedures for the administration of this Plan as it deems appropriate. In the event of any dispute or disagreements as to the interpretation of this Plan or of any rule, regulation or procedure or as to any questioned right or obligation arising from or related to this Plan, the decision of the Committee shall be final and binding upon all persons.
 
 
 
The Plan may be terminated at any time by the Board of Directors of Sunoco, Inc. and may be amended at any time by the Committee provided, however, that no such amendment or termination shall adversely affect the rights of Participants or their beneficiaries with respect to amounts credited to Deferred Compensation Accounts or Restricted Deferred Compensation Accounts prior to such amendment or termination, without the written consent of the Participant.
 
 
 
In the case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Plan shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect the remaining provisions shall be construed in order to effectuate the purposes hereof and the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
 
 
This Plan shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

Exhibit 10.11
 
 
 
The Sunoco, Inc. Savings Restoration Plan ("Plan") is established for the purpose of providing for certain employees benefits which otherwise would be lost by reason of the restrictive provisions of Section 401(a)(17) and Section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") applicable to the Sunoco, Inc. Capital Accumulation Plan ("SunCAP"). This Plan is the result of the merger of the Sun Company, Inc. Savings Restoration Plan II ("Plan II") into the Plan, effective December 21, 1995. The provisions of the Plan and Plan II prior to the effective date of the merger will remain effective with regard to those contributions.
 
This Plan is an unfunded plan maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees within the meaning of Sections 3(36), 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
 
 
The Plan Administrator (as this term is defined in SunCAP), or its delegate, ("Plan Administrator") shall administer the Plan. The Plan Administrator shall have full authority to determine all questions arising in connection with the Plan. The Plan Administrator will also interpret the Plan, adopt procedural rules, and may employ and rely on such legal counsel, such actuaries, such accountants and such agents as it may deem advisable to assist in the administration of the Plan. Decisions of the Plan Administrator shall be conclusive and binding on all persons.
 
 
The Plan Administrator shall select the employees eligible to participate in the Plan for the next succeeding calendar year from among the participants in SunCAP whose employing corporation participates in SunCAP and adopts this Plan (hereinafter referred to as a "participating employer" which term also includes Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company")). The participants in SunCAP selected for participation in this Plan shall be those SunCAP participants that the Plan Administrator reasonably believes will have compensation in excess of the limitations on compensation imposed under the terms of SunCAP by reason of Section
 
401(a)(17) of the Code during the applicable calendar year.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A participant's participating employer shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, a book account for such participant to which the participating employer shall credit an amount equal to the Matching Employer Contributions (as this term is defined in SunCAP) that the participating employer would have made on the participant's behalf to SunCAP had the participant's Basic Contributions continued to be made to SunCAP, instead of to the participating employer under this Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each participating employer shall distribute to each participant in the Plan employed by it for whom it maintains book accounts or his beneficiary under SunCAP an amount in cash equal to 100% of the value of his book account(s) attributable to all participant contributions and employer contributions (and investment earnings on such contributions), upon the termination of employment of such participant under circumstances constituting a separation from service for purposes of Code Section 409A, as amended, and the regulations thereunder. Provided, however, that a participant who terminates employment in 2005 may continue to elect distribution timing options available under Section 5 of this Article V with respect to amounts credited to such participant's book account(s) attributable to all participant contributions and employer contributions earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005, including investment earnings thereon (and which amounts are not deferred compensation for purposes of Code Section 409A). Notwithstanding the foregoing, payment of the value of a participant's book accounts attributable to participant contributions and employer contributions earned and vested after December 31, 2004 (and any other amounts that are deferred compensation for purposes of Code Section 409A), including investment earnings thereon, to any participant who is a specified employee (as defined in Code Section 409A and the regulations thereunder) will be delayed if payable on separation from service other than a separation from service due to the death or disability (as defined in Code Section 409A and the regulations thereunder). Such amounts, including subsequent investment earnings thereon, will be paid in a lump-sum six months after the date of such Participant's separation from service as defined in Code Section 409A, and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
 
Each participant may irrevocably elect, prior to the time a lump-sum distribution is required to be made pursuant to Section 1 of Article V, with respect to the value of the participant's book account(s) attributable to all participant contributions and employer contributions (and investment earnings on such contributions) for all
 
years of the Plan, to waive the right to receive a lump-sum distribution of such contributions (and investment earnings on such contributions) (the "Ten-Year Certain Amounts") at termination of employment as provided in Section 1 of this Article V, and to receive a distribution of all Ten-Year Certain Amounts as determined under this Section 2.
 
The Ten-Year Certain Amounts shall be distributed commencing no later than two months after the time lump-sum amounts are distributable pursuant to Section 1 of this Article V, in a series of annual distributions. The participant will select the number (not to exceed ten) of such annual distributions. The amount of each annual distribution shall be equal to the value of the account balance on the distribution date, divided by the number of annual distributions remaining as of the date the participant's account is valued for the annual distribution. The final annual distribution shall include 100% of the value of the participant's book account(s).
 
Undistributed Ten-Year Certain Amounts shall remain credited to the participant's book account(s) and shall be deemed to be invested in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 of Article IV. In the event of the death of the participant prior to distribution of all Ten-Year Certain Amounts, any undistributed Ten-Year Certain Amounts shall be paid to the participant's beneficiary under SunCAP as soon as is administratively feasible".
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the election under the provisions of this Section 2 of Article V may only be made by a participant who terminated employment before January 1, 2005.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events:
Change in Control
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
After payment or distribution of the value of the participant's book account(s) attributable to all participant contributions and employer contributions (and investment earnings on such contributions) for all years of the Plan, has commenced, the participant may not change the period of time for which such amounts are payable. However, the participant may convert installment payments (the "Ten-Year Certain Amounts" determined pursuant to Section 2 of this Article V) that commenced prior to January 1, 2005 of amounts credited to such participant's book account(s) attributable to all participant contributions and employer contributions earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005, including investment earnings thereon (which amounts are not deferred compensation for purposes of Code Section 409A) to a lump sum distribution, subject to a penalty equal to a five percent (5%) reduction in the balance of the value of the participant's book account(s) attributable to all participant contributions and employer contributions (and investment earnings on such contributions) for all years of the Plan.
i.e.,
 
 
For a participant terminating employment before April 1, 2005, with respect to amounts credited to such participant's book account(s) attributable to all participant contributions and employer contributions earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005, including investment earnings thereon (which amounts are not deferred compensation for purposes of Code Section 409A), notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 1 and 2 of this Article V, at any time prior to the time a lump-sum distribution is required to be made pursuant to Section 1 or Section 2 of Article V, the participant may elect to defer commencement of distribution of benefits under Section 1 of Article V to a date that is no more than three years after the date of the participant's termination of employment. If an election is made under this Section 5, such election may be changed to a different date within such three-year period, subject to a penalty equal to a five percent (5%) reduction in the balance of the value of the participant's book account(s) attributable to all participant contributions and employer contributions (and investment earnings on such contributions) for all years of the Plan.
 
 
 
This Plan may be terminated at any time by the Company. The Company or any participating employer may terminate participation in this Plan with respect to its employees participating in SunCAP. If a participating employer shall terminate SunCAP with respect to its employees the amounts to their credit in their book accounts established under this Plan shall be distributed to such participants in a lump-sum upon a participant's separation from service in accordance with Section 1 of Article V.
 
 
This Plan may be amended at any time by the Board, except that no such amendment shall reduce for any participant the amount then credited to his book account established under this Plan.
 
 
No right to payment or any other interest under this Plan shall be assignable or subject to attachment, execution, or levy of any kind.
 
 
Nothing in this Plan shall be construed as giving any employee the right to be retained in the employ of any participating employer. Each participating employer in the Plan expressly reserves the right to dismiss any employee at any time without regard to the effect which such dismissal might have upon him under the Plan.
 
 
Benefits payable under this Plan shall not be funded and shall be made out of the general funds of the participating employers.
 
 
This Plan shall be construed, administered and enforced according to the laws of the state of Pennsylvania.
 

Exhibit 10.12
 
 
 
 
Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") hereby amends and restates this Pension Restoration Plan effective January 1, 2005 for the purpose of providing to Participants (as hereinafter defined) retirement benefits which would otherwise be provided by either the Sunoco, Inc. Retirement Plan or the Puerto Rico Sun Oil Company Retirement Plan but for the restrictions on benefits payable under these plans by Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the Code. This Plan is intended to constitute an "excess benefit plan" within the meaning of Section 3(36) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, ("ERISA") and an unfunded plan maintained primarily to provide deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees within the meaning of Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of ERISA.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The benefit determined under this Section 3.01(b) will be discounted to the date of commencement of benefits under the Plan using the same interest rate used in determining the Actuarial Equivalent lump sum under this Section 3.01(b).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.13
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.01 - shall have the meaning set forth herein at Section 6.04(c).
95% Withdrawal
 
1.02 - shall mean, except as otherwise provided in this Section, a benefit of equivalent value to the benefit which would otherwise have been provided to the Participant, determined on the same basis as determined under the Sunoco, Inc. Retirement Plan. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, for purposes of determining the Actuarial Equivalent lump-sum value for payment of benefits under Section 3.09, the mortality table described in Treasury Regulation Section 1.417(e)-1(d)(2) and the applicable interest rate described in Treasury Regulation Section 1.417(e)-1(d)(3) as specified for the second month preceding the calendar quarter in which the annuity starting date occurs shall be used For purposes of determining the lump-sum Actuarially Equivalent value of retirement income pursuant to Section 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 3.07 or 3.08, the value of early retirement and survivor benefits under the Plan shall be reflected in such lump-sum amounts.
Actuarial Equivalent
.
 
1.03 - shall mean:
Affiliated Company
 
(a) Any corporation which is included within a "controlled group of corporations" within which Sunoco, Inc., is also included as determined under Section 1563 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 without regard to subsections (a)(4) and (e)(3)(C) of said Section 1563;
 
(b) Any other trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) which, based on principles similar to those defining a "controlled group of corporations" for purposes of (a) above, are under common control; and
 
(c) Any other organization so designated by the Board Committee.
 
1.04 - shall mean the monthly amount of benefit (or the Actuarial Equivalent of such benefit) to which a Participant and/or Spouse is or was entitled under any qualified or nonqualified defined contribution or defined benefit plan that is or was maintained by an Affiliated Company as the primary source of employer-provided retirement income for participants of such plan, including the Base Plan, calculated without reduction for any offsets for pensions payable by employers not affiliated with Sunoco, Inc.; , that in the case of a defined contribution plan, the value of such benefit will be determined based on the aggregate contributions made on behalf of the Participant (whether or not subsequently withdrawn by the Participant), accumulated at a rate or rates of interest as determined by the Plan Administrator, which determination will be made in a uniform and consistent manner.
Affiliated Company Benefit
provided, however
 
1.05 - shall mean the Sunoco, Inc. Retirement Plan.
Base Plan
 
1.06 - shall mean the person or persons, other than a contingent annuitant, designated by a Participant or retired Participant pursuant to Article IV.
Beneficiary
 
1.07 - shall mean the Board of Directors of Sunoco, Inc.
Board of Directors
 
1.08 - shall mean those individual members of the Board of Directors who have been appointed by the Board of Directors with the powers and responsibilities specified in Article VIII and to which has been delegated any fiduciary responsibilities of the Board of Directors with respect to the Plan.
Board Committee
 
1.09 - shall have the meaning set forth herein at Section 1.10(c).
Business Combination
 
1.10 - shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events:
Change in Control
 
(a) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (1) the then-outstanding shares of common stock of Sunoco, Inc. (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (2) the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of Sunoco, Inc. entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); , that, for purposes of this Section (a), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (A) any acquisition directly from Sunoco, Inc., (B) any acquisition by Sunoco, Inc., (C) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Sunoco, Inc. or any company controlled by, controlling or under common control with Sunoco, Inc., or (D) any acquisition by any entity pursuant to a transaction that complies with Sections (c)(1), (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this definition;
provided, however
 
(b) Individuals who, as of January 1, 2005, constitute the Board of Directors (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors; , that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the shareholders of Sunoco, Inc., was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board of Directors;
provided, however
 
(c) Consummation of a reorganization, merger, statutory share exchange or consolidation or similar corporate transaction involving Sunoco, Inc. or any of its
 
subsidiaries, a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of Sunoco, Inc., or the acquisition of assets or stock of another entity by Sunoco, Inc. or any of its subsidiaries (each, a "Business Combination"), in each case unless, following such Business Combination, (1) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities that were the beneficial owners of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of the then-outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation that, as a result of such transaction, owns Sunoco, Inc. or all or substantially all of the assets of Sunoco, Inc. either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and the Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (2) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of Sunoco, Inc. or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any of their respective subsidiaries) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of such corporation, except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (3) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board of Directors providing for such Business Combination; or
 
(d) Approval by the shareholders of Sunoco, Inc. of a complete liquidation or dissolution of Sunoco, Inc.
 
1.11 - shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.04(b).
Change in Control Election
 
1.12 - shall mean the Chief Executive Officer of Sunoco, Inc. on January 1, 2003.
Chief Executive Officer Participant
 
1.13 - shall mean Sunoco, Inc., and any Affiliated Company.
Company
 
1.14 - subject to the limitations hereinafter described, shall mean the following:
Credited Service
 
(a) For an Executive Participant, the actual amount, in completed years and months, of the Participant's Service at the date of termination of Executive status; and
 
(b) For a Principal Officer Participant, the actual amount, in completed years and months, of the Participant's Executive Service; and
 
(c) For a Participant retiring on or before January 1, 2003, an additional one month for each full year of such Service completed at the time the determination is being made; that:
provided, however,
 
(1) the maximum number of months credited under this provision will be thirty-six (36);
 
(2) when the Participant attains his 62nd birthday, the number of months credited under this provision will automatically become thirty-six (36), regardless of the length of the Participant's Service; and
 
(3) after the Participant's 62nd birthday, the number of months credited under this provision will be reduced from month to month so that at any time a determination is being made, the maximum number of months credited under this provision will not exceed the number of months remaining until the Participant's 65th birthday.
 
Credited Service will not include any periods of employment with an Affiliated Company before or after it becomes or ceases to be an Affiliated Company. For purposes of determining benefits, each completed month of Service shall equal 1/12 of one year of Service.
 
1.15 - shall mean the sum of:
Earnings
 
(a) base salary paid or payable to a Participant by Sunoco, Inc. or an Affiliated Company; and
 
(b) the actual incentive awards granted to a Participant pursuant to the Sunoco, Inc. Executive Incentive Plan (the "EIP") or the equivalent thereof pursuant to an incentive plan sponsored by Sunoco, Inc. or an Affiliated Company.
 
1.16 - shall mean January 1, 1980, and as to any amendment or restatement, the effective date specified by the Board of Directors.
Effective Date
 
1.17 - shall mean any individual who is employed by Sunoco, Inc. or an Affiliated Company.
Employee
 
1.18 - shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
1.19 - shall mean any Employee who is employed by the Company as a Principal Officer, or in a job which, in accordance with the Company's job evaluation program, has been assigned 1400 or more Hay points.
Executive
 
1.20 - shall mean an Employee who became a Participant before January 1, 2003.
Executive Participant
 
1.21 - shall mean that part of a Participant's Service rendered while he was an Executive; provided, however, that in the case of a Principal Officer Participant, Executive
Executive Service
 
Service shall include only that part of a Participant's Service rendered while he was a Principal Officer. In the case of a Participant who is not an Executive or a Principal Officer, Executive Service shall include all periods of participation pursuant to designation by the Board Committee.
 
1.22 - shall mean the arithmetic monthly average of the Participant's aggregate Earnings during the thirty-six (36) calendar months of the last 120-consecutive calendar month period of Service immediately preceding the earlier of actual retirement or Termination Date (or the actual number of such months if less than thirty-six (36)) which produces the highest average).
Final Average Earnings
 
1.23 - shall have the meaning set forth herein at Section 1.10(b).
Incumbent Board
 
1.24 - shall mean, for any Participant who is a participant in the Sunoco, Inc. Special Executive Severance Plan, "Just Cause" as defined in such plan, and for any other Participant:
Just Cause
 
(a) the willful and continued failure of the Participant to perform substantially the Participant's duties with the Company (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness or following notice of employment termination by the Participant pursuant to Section 1.37), after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Participant by the Board of Directors or any employee of the Company with supervisory authority over the Participant that specifically identifies the manner in which the Board of Directors or such supervising employee believes that the Participant has not substantially performed the Participant's duties, or
 
(b) the willful engaging by the Participant in illegal conduct or gross misconduct that is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company.
 
1.25 - shall mean the monthly amount of benefit, payable at the Participant's Normal Retirement Date (or the Actuarial Equivalent of such benefit) to which a Participant and/or Spouse is or was entitled as a result of prior employment with any employer other than Sunoco, Inc. or an Affiliated Company under all qualified and nonqualified defined benefit retirement plans that are or were maintained by such employer.
Nonaffiliated Employer Benefit
 
1.26 - shall mean the first day of the calendar month coincident with or next following the Participant's 65th birthday.
Normal Retirement Date
 
1.27 - shall have the meaning set forth herein at Section 1.10(a).
Outstanding Company Common Stock
 
1.28 - shall have the meaning set forth herein at Section 1.10(a).
Outstanding Company Voting Securities
 
1.29 - shall mean any Employee who is a Participant in the Sunoco, Inc. Retirement Planwho has not waived his rights to participate in this Plan, and who is either:
Participant
,
 
(a) a Principal Officer; or
 
(b) an Executive who was participating in the Plan on January 1, 2003; or
 
(c) designated as a Participant by the Board Committee.
 
Except as provided in Sections 6.01, 6.02 or 6.04, if any Participant ceases to be a Principal Officer, or an Executive, he will thereupon cease to be a Participant (unless otherwise designated by the Board Committee), and will forfeit all rights to benefits under this Plan.
 
1.30 - shall have the meaning set forth herein at Section 1.10(a).
Person
 
1.31 - shall mean the Sunoco, Inc. Executive Retirement Plan as set forth in this document and as it may from time to time be amended.
Plan
 
1.32 - shall mean the individual or entity designated as such by the Board Committee pursuant to Article VIII.
Plan Administrator
 
1.33 - shall mean the annual period beginning on January 1 of any year and ending on the following December 31.
Plan Year
 
1.34 - shall mean the benefit payable upon the Participant's death to the Spouse of a Participant pursuant to Section 5.01.
Preretirement Spouse's Death Benefit
 
1.35 - shall mean the President, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Executive Officer of Sunoco, Inc., Executives reporting directly to the President, Chief Operating Officer or Chief Executive Officer of Sunoco, Inc., and any other Executive designated by the Board Committee as being a Principal Officer.
Principal Officer
 
1.36 - shall mean a Principal Officer who becomes a Participant on or after January 1, 2003.
Principal Officer Participant
 
1.37 - shall mean, with respect to the employment of any Participant who is a participant in the Sunoco, Inc. Special Executive Severance Plan, a "Qualifying Termination" as defined in such plan, and with respect to the employment of any other Participant, the following:
Qualifying Termination
 
(a) a termination of employment by the Company within two (2) years after a Change in Control, other than for Just Cause, death or disability;
 
(b) a termination of employment by the Participant within two (2) years after a Change in Control for one or more of the following reasons:
 
(1) the assignment to such Participant of any duties inconsistent in a way significantly adverse to such Participant, with such Participant's positions, duties, responsibilities and status with the Company immediately prior to the Change in Control, or a significant reduction in the duties and responsibilities held by the Participant immediately prior to the Change in Control, in each case except in connection with such Participant's termination of employment by the Company for Just Cause; or
 
(2) a reduction by the Company in the Participant's combined annual base salary and guideline (target) bonus as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control; or
 
(3) the Company requires the Participant to be based anywhere other than the Participant's present work location or a location within thirty-five (35) miles from the present location; or the Company requires the Participant to travel on Company business to an extent substantially more burdensome than such Participant's travel obligations during the period of twelve (12) consecutive months immediately preceding the Change in Control;
 
that in the case of any such termination of employment by the Participant under this subparagraph (b), such termination shall not be deemed to be a Qualifying Termination unless the termination occurs within 120 days after the occurrence of the event or events constituting the reason for the termination; or
provided, however,
 
(c) before a Change in Control, a termination of employment by the Company, other than a termination for Just Cause, or a termination of employment by the Participant for one of the reasons set forth in (b) above, if the affected Participant can demonstrate that such termination or circumstance in (b) above leading to the termination:
 
(1) was at the request of a third party with which the Company had entered into negotiations or an agreement with regard to a Change in Control; or
 
(2) otherwise occurred in connection with a Change in Control;
 
, that in either such case, a Change in Control actually occurs within one (1) year following the Employment Termination Date.
provided, however
 
1.38 - shall mean the completed years and months of an Employee's employment by Sunoco, Inc. or an Affiliated Company, whether or not continuous.
Service
 
1.39 - shall mean the Primary Insurance Amount to which a Participant becomes entitled at age sixty-five (65) under Social Security legislation in effect on the earliest of his Normal Retirement Date, early retirement date or Termination Date.
Social Security Benefit
 
1.40 - shall mean the individual who is the legally married husband or wife of a Participant.
Spouse
 
1.41 - shall mean the monthly amount of any benefit (or the Actuarial Equivalent of such benefit) from any country other than the United States to which a Participant, upon proper application, is or would be entitled.
Statutory Benefit
 
1.42 - shall mean Sunoco, Inc. or any corporation which succeeds to the position of Sunoco, Inc. as common parent of the Sunoco Affiliated Group, within the meaning of regulations issued under the Internal Revenue Code.
Sunoco, Inc.
 
1.43 - shall mean the date on which a Participant separates from service as defined in Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and the regulations issued thereunder.
Termination Date
 
 
 
2.01 . All benefits payable under this Plan will be paid by the Company. A Participant will have no right, title, or interest whatsoever in or to any investments which the Company may make to aid in meeting such obligations as may arise under the Plan. Nothing contained in the Plan, nor any action taken pursuant to its provisions, will create or be construed to create a trust or a fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Participant or any other person. To the extent that any person acquires a right to benefits under this Plan, such right will be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company. All payments to be made under the Plan will be paid from the general funds of the Company and no special or separate fund will be established and no segregation of assets will be made to assure payment of such amounts.
Employer Contributions
 
2.02 . No contributions by Participant will be required or permitted under this Plan.
Participant Contributions
 
2.03 . All expenses of administering this Plan will be paid by the Company.
Expenses of Administration
 
 
 
3.01 . Except as provided in Section 3.06, each Participant will be retired on his Normal Retirement Date.
Normal Retirement
 
3.02 . A Principal Officer Participant who retires on or after his Normal Retirement Date and after the completion of five years of Executive Service will be entitled to a monthly normal retirement income, payable in the normal form of payment pursuant to Section 3.09, equal to (a) reduced by (b):
Normal Retirement IncomePrincipal Officer Participants
 
(a) 2.25% of his Final Average Earnings multiplied by his Executive Service;
 
(b) the sum of:
 
(1) 100% of his Affiliated Company Benefit, plus
 
(2) 100% of his Statutory Benefit;
 
, that the monthly normal retirement income that a Principal Officer Participant would otherwise be entitled to receive under Section 3.02(a) shall not exceed 50% of his Final Average Earnings.
provided
however,
 
3.03 . An Executive Participant who retires on or after his Normal Retirement Date and after the completion of five years of Executive
Normal Retirement IncomeExecutive Participants
 
Service will be entitled to a monthly normal retirement income, payable in the normal form of payment pursuant to Section 3.09, equal to the greater of (a) or (b), reduced by (c):
 
(a) a monthly normal retirement income, payable in the normal form of payment pursuant to Section 3.09, equal to 2.25% of his Final Average Earnings multiplied by his Executive Service; , that the benefit that an Executive Participant would otherwise be entitled to receive under this Section 3.03(a) (before reduction for any Affiliated Company Benefit or Statutory Benefit under Section 3.03(c)) shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of his Final Average Earnings; or
provided
however,
 
(b) subject to the provisions of Sections 3.04 and 3.05, the excess of (1) over (2), where:
 
(1) equals the sum of:
 
(a) 1-2/3% of his Final Average Earnings multiplied by his Credited Service up to a maximum of 30 years, plus
 
(b) 3/4% of his Final Average Earnings multiplied by his Credited Service in excess of 30 years, and
 
(2) equals 1-2/3% of his Social Security Benefit multiplied by his Service up to a maximum of 30 years;
 
(c) the sum of:
 
(1) 100% of his Affiliated Company Benefit (determined as of the annuity starting date of the benefit payable under Section 3.03(a) or Section 3.03(b) above), plus
 
(2) 100% of his Statutory Benefit;
 
3.04 . The monthly normal retirement income which an Executive Participant would otherwise be entitled to receive under Section 3.03(b) will not exceed fifty percent (50%) of his Final Average Earnings.
Maximum Normal Retirement Income  Executive Participants
 
3.05 . Notwithstanding the foregoing, the monthly normal retirement income which an Executive Participant would otherwise be entitled to receive under Section 3.03 will not be less than the excess of (a) over (b), where
Minimum Normal Retirement Income  Executive Participants
 
(a) equals 3-1/3% of his Final Average Earnings multiplied by his Credited Service up to a maximum of twelve (12) such years, and
 
(b) equals the sum of:
 
(1) 100% of his Affiliated Company Benefit,
 
(2) 100% of his Nonaffiliated Employer Benefit, plus
 
(3) 100% of his Statutory Benefit.
 
3.06 . A Participant will be eligible to retire on an early retirement date which will be the first day of any calendar month coincident with or next following his 55th birthday if he has then completed at least five (5) years of Executive Service.
Early Retirement Date
 
3.07 . The monthly early retirement income payable to the Participant commencing on his early retirement date will be equal to the monthly normal retirement income that would otherwise be applicable under Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 and 3.05, adjusted as follows:
Early Retirement Income
 
(a) The amount calculated in Sections 3.02(a) and 3.03(a) will be reduced by 5/12% for each full month by which actual retirement precedes the Normal Retirement Date by more than three (3) years.
 
(b) The Social Security Benefit referred to in Section 3.03(b)(2) will be determined by projecting the Participant's Service to his Normal Retirement Date and assuming constant Earnings, at his last rate in effect, to Normal Retirement Date, and will then be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which will be his Service to the date of actual retirement and the denominator of which will be his projected Service to Normal Retirement Date.
 
(c) The amount calculated in Sections 3.03(b)(1), 3.04 and 3.05 will be reduced by 5/12% for each full month by which actual retirement precedes the Normal Retirement Date by more than five (5) years, and the offset for Social Security Benefits calculated in Section 3.03(b)(2) will be reduced by 7/12% for each full month that actual retirement precedes the Normal Retirement Date during the five-year period immediately preceding the Normal Retirement Date, and 7/24% for each full month that actual retirement precedes the Normal Retirement Date by more than five (5) years.
 
(d) In determining the benefit payable under this Section 3.07, any Affiliated Company Benefit will be the amount payable as of the annuity starting date of the early retirement income payable hereunder.
 
3.08 . The Chief Executive Officer Participant will be entitled to benefits under this Section 3.08 if such benefits are greater than the benefits payable pursuant to Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05 or 3.07, and benefits under this Section 3.08 are payable in the normal form of payment pursuant to Section 3.09. The Chief Executive Officer Participant who retires on or after his Normal Retirement Date with ten years of Executive Service will be entitled to a monthly special retirement income equal to 60% of his Final Average Earnings. The monthly special retirement income of a Chief Executive Officer Participant who retires before his Normal Retirement Date with ten years of Executive Service will be the amount determined in the preceding sentence reduced by 5/12% for each month that his Termination Date precedes his Normal Retirement Date. The benefit payable under this Section 3.08 shall be reduced by the Affiliated Company Benefit determined as of the annuity starting date of the benefit payable under this Section 3.08. If benefits are payable under this Section 3.08, no benefits will be payable to the Chief Executive Officer Participant under Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05 or 3.07.
Special Retirement Income  Chief Executive Officer Participant
 
3.09 . Except as provided in Article IV, retirement benefits under this Plan will be in the form of a lump sum payment of the Actuarial Equivalent of the retirement income determined under Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 3.07 and 3.08, whichever is applicable. For purposes of determining the lump sum Actuarial Equivalent of retirement income pursuant to Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 3.07 and 3.08, the value of early retirement and survivor benefits under the Plan shall be reflected in such lump sum amounts.
Normal Form of Benefit
 
3.10 . The following provisions are effective January 1, 2005.
Time of Payment
 
(a) The payment of a Participant's retirement benefits shall be made or commence on the first day of the month following the Termination Date, except as provided in Section 3.10(b).
 
(b) Payment of any retirement benefits (that are deferred compensation for purposes of Code Section 409A) to any Participant who is a specified employee as defined in Code Section 409A and the regulations promulgated thereunder shall be made as follows. Retirement benefits that are scheduled to be paid for the period which begins on such Participant's Termination Date and ends on the date six months from such Participant's Termination Date, shall not be paid as scheduled, but shall be accumulated and paid in a lump sum on the date six months after the Participant's Termination Date. Simple interest will be paid on retirement income delayed hereunder from the date such payments would have been made to the Participant but for this subsection (b), to the date of actual payment, at the interest rate used to determine Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payments under the Plan as of the Participant's Termination Date.
 
3.11 . Effective July 1, 1998, the monthly benefits of
Increase in Monthly Benefits
 
(a) retirees who retired prior to January 1, 1981, as a result of normal retirement under Section 3.01 or early retirement under Section 3.06,
 
(b) surviving Spouses, contingent annuitants or Beneficiaries of the retirees described in subsection 3.10(a) who are receiving benefits on July 1, 1998, or
 
(c) surviving Spouses who began receiving surviving Spouse's benefits under Article V prior to January 1, 1990, shall be increased by the amount determined in the following sentence, subject, however, to the limitation that the combined increases under the Base Plan and the Plan effective July 1, 1998, shall not exceed $85.00.
 
The monthly benefit increase shall be the excess of the sum of twenty percent (20%) of the combined monthly benefit under the Base Plan and the Plan up to $250.00, ten percent (10%) of the combined monthly benefit under the Base Plan and the Plan in excess of $250.00 up to $500.00, three percent (3%) of the combined monthly benefit under the Base Plan and the Plan in excess of $500.00 up to $750.00, and one percent (1%) of the combined monthly benefit under the Base Plan and the Plan in excess of $750.00 up to $1,000, over the monthly benefit increase
 
effective July 1, 1998 under the Base Plan. Benefits payable on account of disability shall not be increased. Fifty percent (50%) of these retiree benefit increases shall be continued to the surviving Spouse; , that any such increases in retirement income shall not be subject to adjustments in effect at the time of the election or retirement reflecting the cost of benefit increases under this Section.
provided, however
 
 
 
4.01 . The provisions of this Section 4.01 are effective January 1, 2005 for elections of optional forms of payment under Article IV, and all elections under Sections 4.02 through 4.05 are subject to the provisions of this Section 4.01.
Election of an Optional Form of Payment
 
(a) With respect to retirement benefits accrued prior to January 1, 2005 that are not deferred compensation for purposes of Code Section 409A, not later than thirty (30) days prior to a Participant's retirement date, a Participant may elect, in lieu of the normal form of retirement benefits, an optional form of retirement income. A Participant may not change or revoke an elected option unless such change is made thirty (30) days prior to the Participant's retirement date. Each election, designation and revocation of an option will be made in writing and in conformity with such rules as may be prescribed by the Plan Administrator. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Spouse may not elect an optional form of receiving any benefit payable under Article V.
 
(b) With respect to retirement benefits that are accrued prior to January 1, 2005 and are deferred compensation for purposes of Code Section 409A, and with respect to retirement benefits accrued between January 1, 2005 and December 31, 2005, on or before December 31, 2005, a Participant may elect, in accordance with IRS Notice 2005-1 Q&A 19(c), and in lieu of the normal form of retirement benefits, an optional form of retirement income with respect to such Participant's retirement income. Such election shall become irrevocable on December 31, 2005. Each election will be made in writing and in conformity with such rules as may be prescribed by the Plan Administrator. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Spouse may not elect an optional form of receiving any benefit payable under Article V.
 
(c) All retirement benefits accrued after December 31, 2005 will be paid in the form of a lump sum.
 
4.02 . A Participant may elect to receive an annuity which is equal to the monthly normal retirement income determined under Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 3.07 and 3.08, whichever is applicable.
Monthly Annuity Option
 
4.03 . A Participant may elect to receive a reduced retirement income, the amount of which will be determined by application of appropriate Actuarially Equivalent factors adopted by the Plan Administrator for the age and sex of the Participant and the contingent annuitant. The contingent annuity option provides:
Contingent Annuity Option
 
(a) payments to the Participant for life; and
 
(b) continuation of such payments, or any part of them designated by the Participant, to the contingent annuitant, if surviving, for life.
 
4.04 . A Participant may elect to receive a retirement income of Actuarially Equivalent value payable for life, provided that such income will be paid to such Participant or to the Beneficiary of such Participant for ten (10) years after the Participant's retirement regardless of whether the Participant or Beneficiary survives such period. At the discretion of the Plan Administrator, any benefit payable hereunder to a Beneficiary may be commuted and paid in one sum.
Ten-Year Certain Option
 
4.05 . A Participant may elect to receive a benefit payable over a period not less than the remaining lifetime of such Participant and, if the Participant so further elects, thereafter to the designated Beneficiary for as long as such designated Beneficiary survives the Participant in such other form having an Actuarially Equivalent value as may be approved by, and be subject to such conditions as may be prescribed by, the Plan Administrator.
Other Forms of Pension
 
4.06 .
Rules Applicable to Contingent Annuity Option
 
(a) If the Participant should die before the effective date of the contingent annuity option, no benefit will be payable to the contingent annuitant.
 
(b) If the contingent annuitant should die before the effective date of the contingent annuity option, the option will automatically be cancelled and the normal monthly retirement income will be payable to the Participant as if the option had not been elected.
 
(c) If the contingent annuitant should die before the Participant but after the effective date of the contingent annuity option, benefits will be payable or continue to be paid to the Participant on the reduced basis; , that if the contingent annuitant should die during the first four years following commencement of the retirement income payments to the Participant, the amount of the reduced retirement income payable to the surviving retired Participant will be increased by restoring a percentage of the reduction amount as follows:
provided, however
 
 
(d) If the retirement date is earlier than the effective date of the contingent annuity option, retirement benefits commencing at the actual retirement date will be made on the normal form of retirement income. If the Participant and the contingent annuitant are living on such effective date, the retirement benefit will be adjusted to provide retirement income on and after such date in the optional form.
 
 
 
5.01 . In the event of the death of a Participant during active employment and after having become eligible to elect an early retirement date, the Participant's Spouse will be entitled to a death benefit payable in the normal form of payment pursuant to Section 5.02 in the amount hereinafter set forth. The amount of such monthly income will be fifty percent (50%) of the monthly early retirement income that would have been payable to the Participant under Section 3.07 or Section 3.08 (if greater) had he retired on the date of his death; , that:
Preretirement Spouse's Death Benefit
provided, however
 
(a) the reduction specified in Section 3.03(c)(2) with respect to the Participant's Affiliated Company Benefit will not be applicable;
 
(b) the early retirement reduction percentage described in Sections 3.07(a) and 3.07(c) will be applied only to the offset for Social Security Benefits;
 
(c) the monthly income payments to the Spouse will be reduced by 1/2% for each year that the Spouse is more than ten (10) years younger than the Participant;
 
(d) the amount payable to the Spouse will be reduced by any amount of Affiliated Company Benefits that are attributable to Affiliated Company contributions and that are payable to such Spouse; and
 
(e) the benefit that would have been payable under Section 3.08 shall be payable without regard to whether the Chief Executive Officer Participant has ten years of Service at the date of his death.
 
5.02 . Except as otherwise elected pursuant to Section 5.03, the Preretirement Spouse's Death Benefit will be in the form of a lump sum payment of the Actuarial Equivalent of the Preretirement Spouse's Death Benefit determined under Section 5.01 payable no later than the first day of the calendar month following the month in which the Participant died.
Normal Form of Preretirement Spouse's Death Benefit
 
5.03 . The provisions of this Section 5.03 are effective January 1, 2005 for elections of an optional form of payment of a Preretirement Spouse's Death Benefit.
Election of Optional Form of Preretirement Spouse's Death Benefit
 
(a) With respect to retirement benefits accrued prior to January 1, 2005 that are not deferred compensation for purposes of Code Section 409A, a Participant who is eligible to elect an early retirement date may elect to have the Preretirement Spouse's Death Benefit (with respect to such retirement benefits) paid in an annuity pursuant to this Section. If this form of payment is elected by the Participant, the Participant's Spouse shall receive a Preretirement Spouse's Death Benefit (with respect to such retirement benefits) in the form of monthly payments commencing no later than the last day of the calendar month following the month in which the Participant died, payable over the lifetime of the Spouse. A Participant may change or revoke an election of this option at any time prior to his actual retirement. Each election, designation and revocation of an option will be made in writing and in conformity with such rules as may be prescribed by the Plan Administrator.
 
(b) With respect to retirement benefits that are accrued prior to January 1, 2005 and are deferred compensation for purposes of Code Section 409A, and with respect to retirement benefits accrued between January 1, 2005 and December 31, 2005, on or before December 31, 2005, a Participant may elect in accordance with IRS Notice 2005-1 Q&A 19(c), to have the Preretirement Spouse's Death Benefit (with respect to such retirement benefits) paid in an annuity pursuant to this Section. If this form of payment is elected by the Participant, the Participant's Spouse shall receive a Preretirement Spouse's Death Benefit (with respect to such retirement benefits) in the form of monthly payments commencing no later than the last day of the calendar month following the month in which the Participant died, payable over the lifetime of the Spouse. Such election shall become irrevocable on December 31, 2005. Each election will be made in writing and in conformity with such rules as may be prescribed by the Plan Administrator.
 
(c) The Preretirement Spouse's Death Benefit with respect to all benefits accrued after December 31, 2005 will be paid in the form of a lump sum on the first day of the calendar month following the month in which the Participant died.
 
5.04 . In the event a Participant who has elected to receive a retirement benefit in one of the optional forms outlined in Article IV, dies after retiring or after attaining Normal Retirement Date, the Spouse at the time of commencement of the distribution of such retirement benefit will receive a monthly retirement income payable for the lifetime of such Spouse in an amount equal to fifty percent (50%) of the retirement income being paid or payable to the Participant (before giving effect to any reduction in income required by the election of an optional form of payment under Article IV); , that:
Postretirement Spouse's Death Benefit
provided, however
 
(a) the reduction specified in Section 3.03(c)(1) with respect to the Participant's Affiliated Company Benefit will not be applicable;
 
(b) the monthly income payable to the Spouse will be reduced by 1/2% for each year that the Spouse is more than ten years younger than the Participant; and
 
(c) the amount payable to the Spouse will be reduced by any amount of Affiliated Company Benefits that are attributable to Affiliated Company contributions and that are payable to such Spouse.
 
The Spouse's death benefit payable under this Section 5.04 will be in addition to any benefits otherwise payable under Article IV.
 
 
 
6.01 .
Termination of Employment
 
(a) . A Participant whose employment is terminated for any reason other than death or retirement, including early retirement, will not be entitled to benefits under this Plan, except as provided in subsection 6.01(b) and Section 6.04 hereof.
Voluntary Termination
 
(b) The provisions of this Section 6.01(b) are effective for involuntary terminations with a Termination Date on or after January 1, 2005. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan (and except as discussed herein), a Participant whose employment is involuntarily terminated prior to his Early Retirement Date, other than for Just Cause, and who executes a release and discharge of the Company from any and all claims, demands or causes of action other than as to amounts or benefits due to the Participant under any plan, program or contract provided by, or entered into with, the Company will be entitled to benefits in accordance with this subsection 6.01(b). Such release and discharge shall be in such form as prescribed by the Committee and shall be executed prior to the payment of any benefits due hereunder. In addition, no benefits due hereunder shall be paid to a Participant who is required by Company guidelines to execute an agreement governing the assignment of patents or the disclosure of confidential information unless an executed copy of such agreement is on file with the Company.
Involuntary Termination.
 
(i) This subsection (i) applies with respect to involuntary termination benefits attributable to retirement benefits that are accrued prior to January 1, 2005 and are deferred compensation for purposes of Code Section 409A, and with respect to involuntary termination benefits attributable to retirement benefits accrued between January 1, 2005 and December 31, 2005.
 
(A) The benefits under this Section 6.01(b)(i) shall consist of a nonforfeitable percentage (not to exceed 100%) in the benefits calculated under Section 3.07 (including the minimum benefit defined under Section 3.05, in the case of Executive Participants) equal to 1-2/3% times the number of completed months of Executive Service, as modified in subsections (B) through (D) below.
 
(B) Such benefits shall commence coincident with or next following the first day of the calendar month in which the Participant attains age fifty-five (55), or if the Participant elects, on or before December 31, 2005 in accordance with IRS Notice 2005-1 Q&A 19(c), the benefit will be paid at the first day of the month following the Termination Date, in an Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payment of the age fifty-five (55) retirement income determined under Section 3.07, with an additional reduction of such benefit by discounting it to the date of payment using the interest rate used in Section 1.02, as modified pursuant to subsections (C) and (D). Such election shall become irrevocable on December 31, 2005.
 
(C) Except as provided in subsection (D), if the Participant elects to commence the benefit prior to age fifty-five (55), the Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payment in subsection (B) above will be calculated prior to reduction for any Affiliated Company Benefit and discounted to the date of payment as provided in subsection (B), and then such discounted Actuarially Equivalent lump sum payment will be reduced by the Affiliated Company Benefit payable immediately.
 
(D) In the case of a Participant who is eligible for a benefit determined under Section 3.10 of the Sunoco, Inc. Retirement Plan or Section 6.11 of the Puerto Rico Sun Oil Company Retirement Plan (i.e., a "Rule of 60" benefit) on his Termination Date, and has not commenced such benefit at the time that benefits under this Plan commence, the Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payment in subsection (B) above will be reduced by the Actuarial Equivalent lump sum Affiliated Company Benefit (attributable to the qualified plan in which the Participant participates) payable at age 55 before discounting to the date of payment. Such Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payment shall be discounted to the date of payment as provided in subsection (B). The Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payment determined in the preceding sentence will then be reduced by any Affiliated Company Benefit from a nonqualified plan payable on the date of payment of the benefit under this Section 6.01(b).
 
(E) Any Participant who also is eligible to receive benefits under Section 6.04 shall not receive benefits hereunder but shall instead receive the benefits under Section 6.04. If the Participant has not elected to receive a lump sum payment under this Section 6.01(b), and dies prior to commencement of the payment of the benefit under this Section 6.01(b), then the Participant's Spouse will be entitled to a preretirement death benefit in accordance with Sections 5.01, 5.02 and 5.03.
 
(ii) This subsection (ii) applies with respect to involuntary termination benefits attributable to retirement benefits that are accrued after December 31, 2005.
 
(A) The benefits under this Section 6.01(b)(ii) shall consist of a nonforfeitable percentage (not to exceed 100%) in the benefits calculated under Section 3.07 (including the minimum benefit defined under Section 3.05, in the case of Executive Participants) equal to 1-2/3% times the number of completed months of Executive Service, as modified in subsections (B) through (D) below.
 
(B) Such benefits shall be paid at the first day of the month following the Termination Date, in an Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payment of the age fifty-five (55) retirement income determined under Section 3.07, with an additional reduction of such benefit by discounting it to the date of payment using the interest rate used in Section 1.02, as modified pursuant to subsections (C) and (D).
 
(C) Except as provided in subsection (D), the Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payment in subsection (B) above will be calculated prior to reduction for any Affiliated Company Benefit and discounted to the date of payment as provided in subsection (B), and then such discounted Actuarially Equivalent lump sum payment will be reduced by the Affiliated Company Benefit payable immediately.
 
(D) In the case of a Participant who is eligible for a benefit determined under Section 3.10 of the Sunoco, Inc. Retirement Plan or Section 6.11 of the Puerto Rico Sun Oil Company Retirement Plan (i.e., a "Rule of 60" benefit) on his Termination Date, and has not commenced such benefit at the time that benefits under this Plan commence, the Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payment in subsection (B) above will be reduced by the Actuarial Equivalent lump sum Affiliated Company Benefit (attributable to the qualified plan in which the Participant participates) payable at age 55 before discounting to the date of payment. Such Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payment shall be discounted to the date of payment as provided in subsection (B). The Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payment determined in the preceding sentence will then be reduced by any Affiliated Company Benefit from a nonqualified plan payable on the date of payment of the benefit under this Section 6.01(b).
 
(E) Any Participant who also is eligible to receive benefits under Section 6.04 shall not receive benefits hereunder but shall instead receive the benefits under Section 6.04. If the Participant has not elected to receive a lump sum payment under this Section 6.01(b), and dies prior to commencement of the payment of the benefit under this Section 6.01(b), then the Participant's Spouse will be entitled to a pre-retirement death benefit in accordance with Sections 5.01, 5.02 and 5.03.
 
(iii) Payment of any benefits under this Section 6.01(b) (that are deferred compensation for purposes of Code Section 409A) to any Participant who is a specified employee as defined in Code Section 409A and the regulations promulgated thereunder shall be made as follows. Benefits that are scheduled to be paid for the period which begins on such Participant's Termination Date and ends on the date six months from such Participant's Termination Date, shall not be paid as scheduled, but shall be accumulated and paid in a lump sum on the date six months after the Participant's Termination Date. Simple interest will be paid on retirement income delayed hereunder from the date such payments would have been made to the Participant but for this subsection (iii), to the date of actual payment, at the interest rate used to determine Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payments under the Plan as of the Participant's Termination Date.
 
6.02 . If a Participant remains employed by the Company but ceases to be an Executive or a Principal Officer, he will forfeit the right to all benefits under this Plan unless otherwise designated to remain as a Participant by the Board Committee or unless he had attained his 55th birthday and completed at least five (5) years of
Termination of Executive or Principal Officer Status
 
Executive Service at the time he ceased to be an Executive or a Principal Officer, except as otherwise provided in this Section 6.02. If any such Participant is designated at the Board Committee as being eligible to remain a Participant even though no longer an Executive or a Principal Officer, the Participant will continue as such for all purposes of this Plan. If the Participant is not so designated by the Board Committee but has completed at least five years of Executive Service, he will remain a Participant, but will be entitled to benefits based only upon his Service, Credited Service as of the date he ceased to be an Executive or Principal Officer, and Final Average Earnings as of his Termination Date.
 
6.03 . If a retired Participant is reemployed by the Company, his benefits will thereupon cease, and upon again becoming such an Employee he will have his prior period of Service, Credited Service and Executive Service restored to him only as designated by the Board Committee.
Reemployment
 
6.04 .
Change in Control
 
(a) Notwithstanding any other provisions in the Plan (including any minimum age and/or length of service requirements for vesting of benefits), a Participant shall become fully and irrevocably vested upon the earliest of:
 
(1) the Participant's Qualifying Termination;
 
(2) a termination of the Participant's employment by the Company after a Change in Control by reason of death or disability;
 
(3) the termination of this Plan after a Change in Control; or
 
(4) any amendment of this Plan after a Change in Control in a manner that purports to reduce any benefit due under this Plan.
 
As a result of such vesting, each such Participant shall become entitled to benefits calculated as follows:
 
(i) Except for purposes of Section 1.14(c), Service and Credited Service shall be increased by 36 months, with the number of months credited under this Section 6.04(a)(i) reduced by one month for each completed month of Service of the Participant after the date of the Change in Control, but not below zero.
 
(ii) If at the Termination Date, the Participant has attained his Normal Retirement Date, he shall be entitled to a benefit calculated in accordance with Section 3.02 (for Principal Officer Participants) or Section 3.03 (for Executive Participants).
 
(iii) If at the Termination Date, the Participant has not attained his Normal Retirement Date, or has not attained his Early Retirement Date, he shall be entitled to benefits calculated under Section 3.07 (including the minimum benefit defined under Section 3.05 in the case of Executive Participants).
 
(iv) Final Average Earnings shall be determined using the greater of:
 
(A) the amount determined under Section 1.21 without reference to this Section 6.04(a)(iv); or
 
(B) the amount determined under Section 1.21 as of the end of the calendar month preceding the date of a Change in Control.
 
(v) The provisions of this Section 6.04(a)(v) are effective for a Participant with a Termination Date on or after January 1, 2005, and who has not attained his Early Retirement Date at the Termination Date.
 
(A) This subsection (A) applies with respect to benefits attributable to retirement benefits that are accrued prior to January 1, 2005 and are deferred compensation for purposes of Code Section 409A, and with respect to benefits attributable to retirement benefits accrued between January 1, 2005 and December 31, 2005.
 
(I) The benefits under this Section 6.04(a)(v)(A) shall consist of the benefits calculated under Section 3.07, as modified in subsections (II) through (IV) below.
 
(II) Such benefits shall commence coincident with or next following the first day of the calendar month in which the Participant attains age fifty-five (55), or if the Participant elects, on or before December 31, 2005 in accordance with IRS Notice 2005-1 Q&A 19(c), the benefit will be paid at the first day of the month following the Termination Date, in an Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payment of the age fifty-five (55) retirement income determined under Section 3.07, with an additional reduction of such benefit by discounting it to the date of payment using the interest rate used in Section 1.02, as modified pursuant to subsections (III) and (IV). Such election shall become irrevocable on December 31, 2005.
 
(III) Except as provided in subsection (IV), if the Participant elects to commence the benefit prior to age fifty-five (55), the Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payment in subsection (II) above will be calculated prior to reduction for any Affiliated Company Benefit and discounted to the date of payment as provided in subsection (II), and then such discounted Actuarially Equivalent lump sum payment will be reduced by the Affiliated Company Benefit payable immediately.
 
(IV) In the case of a Participant who is eligible for a benefit determined under Section 3.10 of the Sunoco, Inc. Retirement Plan or Section 6.11 of the Puerto Rico Sun Oil Company Retirement Plan (i.e., a "Rule of 60" benefit) on his Termination Date, and has not commenced such benefit at the time that benefits under this Plan commence, the Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payment in subsection (II) above will be reduced by the Actuarial Equivalent lump sum Affiliated Company Benefit (attributable to the qualified plan in which the Participant participates) payable at age 55 before discounting to the date of payment. Such Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payment shall be discounted to the date of payment as provided in subsection (II). The Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payment determined in the preceding sentence will then be reduced by any Affiliated Company Benefit from a nonqualified plan payable on the date of payment of the benefit under this Section 6.04(a)(v).
 
(B) This subsection (B) applies with respect to benefits attributable to retirement benefits that are accrued after December 31, 2005.
 
(I) The benefits under this Section 6.04(a)(v)(B) shall consist of the benefits calculated under Section 3.07, as modified in subsections (II) through (IV) below.
 
(II) Such benefits shall be paid at the first day of the month following the Termination Date, in an Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payment of the age fifty-five (55) retirement income determined under Section 3.07, with an additional reduction of such benefit by discounting it to the date of payment using the interest rate used in Section 1.02, as modified pursuant to subsections (III) and (IV).
 
(III) Except as provided in subsection (IV), the Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payment in subsection (II) above will be calculated prior to reduction for any Affiliated Company Benefit and discounted back to the date of payment as provided in subsection (II), and then such discounted Actuarially Equivalent lump sum payment will be reduced by the Affiliated Company Benefit payable immediately.
 
(IV) In the case of a Participant who is eligible for a benefit determined under Section 3.10 of the Sunoco, Inc. Retirement Plan or Section 6.11 of the Puerto Rico Sun Oil Company Retirement Plan (i.e., a "Rule of 60" benefit) on his Termination Date, and has not commenced such benefit at the time that benefits under this Plan commence, the Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payment in subsection (II) above will be reduced by the Actuarial Equivalent lump sum Affiliated Company Benefit (attributable to the qualified plan in which the Participant participates) payable at age 55 before discounting to the date of payment. Such Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payment shall be discounted to the date of payment as provided in subsection (II). The Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payment determined in the preceding sentence will then be reduced by any Affiliated Company Benefit from a nonqualified plan payable on the date of payment of the benefit under this Section 6.04(a)(v).
 
(C) Payment of any benefits under this Section 6.04(a)(v) (that are deferred compensation for purposes of Code Section 409A) to any Participant who is a specified employee as defined in Code Section 409A and the regulations promulgated thereunder shall be made as follows. Benefits that are scheduled to be paid for the period which begins on such Participant's Termination Date and ends on the date six months from such Participant's Termination Date, shall not be paid as scheduled, but shall be accumulated and paid in a lump sum on the date six months after the Participant's Termination Date. Simple interest will be paid on retirement income delayed hereunder from the date such payments would have been made to the Participant but for this subsection (C), to the date of actual payment, at the interest rate used to determine Actuarial Equivalent lump sum payments under the Plan as of the Participant's Termination Date.
 
(vi) In the event the Chief Executive Officer Participant has not attained his Normal Retirement Date at the Termination Date (regardless of whether he has ten years of Service at the Termination Date), the benefits under Section 3.08 will be a monthly special retirement income equal to 60% of his Final Average Earnings (with such income reduced by 5/12% for each month that his Termination Date precedes his Normal Retirement Date). The benefit payable under this Section 6.04(b)(vi) shall be reduced by the Affiliated Company Benefit determined as of the annuity starting date of the benefit payable under this Section 6.04(b)(vi).
 
In addition, a Participant who terminates his employment for any reason after a Change in Control and who is not described in the first sentence of Section 6.04(a), shall become entitled to the benefits set forth at Section 6.04(a)(4)(ii), (iii), (iv) and (v), to the extent the Participant meets the age requirements set forth in each such subsection.
 
(b) The provisions of this Section 6.04(b) are effective January 1, 2005 for making a "Change in Control Election".
 
(i) With respect to retirement benefits accrued prior to January 1, 2005 that are not deferred compensation for purposes of Code Section 409A, notwithstanding any other provisions in this Plan, at any time, a Participant or Beneficiary may make a "Change in Control Election." If a Participant or Beneficiary makes a Change in Control Election that remains in force in accordance with the rules described below, the Participant or Beneficiary will be entitled to receive, in a single lump sum payment upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Actuarial Equivalent of the remaining payments of retirement income (attributable to benefits accrued before January 1, 2005 that are not deferred compensation for purposes of Code Section 409A) to
 
which he or she is entitled under the Plan as of the Change in Control. In order for a Change in Control Election to be effective, however, the Participant or Beneficiary must be receiving Plan benefits pursuant to Article IV at the time that a Change in Control occurs. In addition, any Change in Control Election or revocation of an existing Change in Control Election shall be null and void if a Change in Control occurs within 12 months after it is made, and the Participant's or Beneficiary's most recent preceding Change in Control Election, if timely made and not revoked at least 12 months before the Change in Control, shall remain in force. Each such election or revocation shall be made in writing and in conformity with such rules as may be prescribed by the Plan Administrator.
 
(ii) With respect to retirement benefits that are accrued prior to January 1, 2005 and are deferred compensation for purposes of Code Section 409A, and with respect to retirement benefits accrued between January 1, 2005 and December 31, 2005, on or before December 31, 2005, a Participant may elect in accordance with IRS Notice 2005-1 Q&A 19(c), to make a "Change in Control Election." Such election will be irrevocable as of December 31, 2005. If a Participant or Beneficiary makes a Change in Control Election the Participant or Beneficiary will be entitled to receive, in a single lump sum payment upon the occurrence of a Change in Control (provided that the Change in Control is also a change in control for purposes of Code Section 409A and the regulations issued thereunder), the Actuarial Equivalent of the remaining payments of retirement income to which he or she is entitled under the Plan as of the Change in Control. In order for a Change in Control Election to be effective, however, the Participant or Beneficiary must be receiving Plan benefits pursuant to Article IV at the time that a Change in Control occurs. Each such election shall be made in writing and in conformity with such rules as may be prescribed by the Plan Administrator.
 
(c) With respect to retirement benefits accrued prior to January 1, 2005 that are not deferred compensation for purposes of Code Section 409A, from the date of a Change in Control and for twelve (12) months thereafter, each Participant or Beneficiary who is receiving retirement benefits pursuant to Article IV and who does not have a Change in Control Election in force, shall have the right to withdraw, in a single lump-sum cash payment, an amount equal to ninety-five percent (95%) of the Actuarial Equivalent of the remaining payments of retirement income to which the Participant is then entitled under this Plan (a "95% Withdrawal"); , that if this option is exercised, such Participant or Beneficiary will forfeit to the Company the remaining five percent (5%) of the
provided, however
 
Actuarial Equivalent of such payments. Payments pursuant to a 95% Withdrawal shall be made as soon as practicable, but no later than thirty (30) days after the Participant or Beneficiary notifies the Plan Administrator in writing that he is exercising his right to elect a 95% Withdrawal. This provision is not effective for any retirement benefits that are deferred compensation for purposes of Code Section 409A.
 
(d) The Company shall pay all reasonable legal fees and related expenses incurred by a Participant in seeking to obtain or enforce any payment, benefit or other right such Participant may be entitled to under the Plan after a Change in Control, that the Participant shall be required to repay any such amounts to the Company to the extent a court of competent jurisdiction issues a final and non-appealable order setting forth the determination that the position taken by the Participant was frivolous or advanced in bad faith.
; provided, however
 
 
 
7.01 . A Participant receiving disability benefits under the Sun Executive Disability Income Program will remain a Participant. Such a Participant will be entitled to a monthly normal retirement income, to commence at his Normal Retirement Date, computed in accordance with Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 or 3.05 as applicable, assuming constant Earnings and annual guideline (target) bonus to Normal Retirement Date, Social Security benefits as calculated under the Social Security Act in effect on the Participant's date of disability, and including as Service, Credited Service and Executive Service, the period during which he qualifies for and receives disability benefits under the Sun Executive Disability Income Program. Such determination will be made as of Normal Retirement Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of determining the benefit provided to the Chief Executive Officer Participant pursuant to Section 3.08, Service, Credited Service and Executive Service shall not include the period during which he qualifies for and receives disability benefits under the Sun Executive Disability Income Program. The normal form for the payment of retirement income to the Participant will be as set forth in Section 3.09.
Participants Receiving Disability Benefits
 
7.02 . A Participant receiving Sun Executive Disability Income Program benefits prior to his Normal Retirement Date will be entitled to benefits under Section 5.01 and, if applicable, Section 5.02. After his Normal Retirement Date, he will be deemed to have retired. Such a Participant, if otherwise eligible, may also elect to retire early under the provisions of Section 3.06.
Status During Disability
 
 
 
8.01 . Fiduciary responsibilities with respect to the Plan are to be allocated as set forth in this Article VIII. A fiduciary will have only those specific powers, duties, responsibilities and obligations as are specifically given him under this Plan. It is intended that each fiduciary be responsible for the proper exercise of his own powers, duties, responsibilities and obligations under this Plan, and generally will not be responsible for any act or failure to act of another fiduciary. A fiduciary may delegate to any person or entity, who may or may not be a fiduciary, any of its powers or duties under the Plan.
Allocation and Delegation of Fiduciary Responsibilities
 
8.02 . The Board of Directors has the following powers and responsibilities:
Powers and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors
 
(a) To authorize amendments to the Plan;
 
(b) To terminate the Plan; and
 
(c) To appoint and remove members of the Board Committee, as set forth in Section 8.03, below.
 
8.03 .
Board Committee
 
(a) The Board Committee will consist of at least three Directors who will be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors will also appoint one member of the Board Committee to act as Chairman of such Committee. Vacancies will be filled in the same manner as appointments. Any member of the Board Committee may resign by delivering a written resignation to the Board of Directors, to become effective upon delivery or at any other date specified therein.
 
(b) The members of the Board Committee will appoint a Secretary who may, but need not be, a member of the Board Committee. The Board Committee may, in writing, delegate some or all of its powers and responsibilities as specified in subsection 8.03(d) to any other person or entity, who may or may not be a fiduciary.
 
(c) The Board Committee will hold meetings upon such notice, at such time or times, and at such place or places as it may determine. The majority of the members of the Board Committee at the time in office will constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at all meetings and a majority vote of those present at any meeting will be required for action. The Board Committee will also act by written consent of a majority of its members.
 
(d) The Board Committee will have the following powers and responsibilities:
 
(1) To prepare periodic administration reports to the Board of Directors which will show, in reasonable detail, the administrative operations of the Plan;
 
(2) To appoint and remove the Plan Administrator; and
 
(3) To appoint and remove other fiduciaries.
 
8.04 .
Plan Administrator
 
(a) The Plan Administrator will be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the Board Committee. The Plan Administrator may resign by delivering a written resignation to the Board Committee, to be effective on delivery or at any other date specified therein. Upon the resignation or removal of the Plan Administrator, a successor Plan Administrator will be appointed by the Board Committee.
 
(b) The Plan Administrator may, in writing, delegate some or all of his powers and responsibilities as set forth in subsection 8.04(c) to any other person or entity, who may or may not be a fiduciary.
 
(c) The Plan Administrator will adopt such rules for administration of the Plan as he considers desirable, provided they do not conflict with the Plan. Records of administration of the Plan will be kept, and Participants and their Spouses, Beneficiaries and contingent annuitants may examine records pertaining directly to themselves. The Plan Administrator will have the following powers and responsibilities:
 
(1) To select and terminate an actuary for the Plan.
 
(2) To establish and maintain claims review procedures.
 
(3) To construe the Plan, correct defects, supply omissions and reconcile inconsistencies to the extent necessary to administer the Plan, with any instructions or interpretation of the Plan made in good faith by the Plan Administrator to be final and conclusive for all purposes.
 
(4) To comply with any requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 with respect to filing reports with governmental agencies.
 
(5) To provide Employees with any and all information required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
 
(6) To approve any actuarial assumptions.
 
(7) To coordinate any necessary audit process with respect to reports on administration data.
 
(8) To conduct routine Plan administration.
 
8.05 . The fiduciaries may retain such counsel, actuarial, medical, accounting, clerical and other services as they may require to carry out the provisions and purposes of the Plan.
Employment of Agents
 
8.06 . Fiduciaries under the Plan and the officers and managers and Employees of the Company and any Affiliated Company will be entitled to rely upon all tables, valuations, certificates and reports furnished by any duly appointed actuary, insurance company, or by any duly appointed accountant, and upon all opinions given by any duly appointed legal counsel.
Reliance on Reports and Certificates
 
8.07 . Fiduciaries under the Plan will not receive any compensation for their services as such.
Compensation
 
8.08 . A fiduciary may not act, vote or otherwise influence a decision specifically relating to his own participation under the Plan.
Fiduciary's Own Participation
 
8.09 . In the administration of the Plan, neither a fiduciary, not any officers, directors or employees of the Company or any Affiliated Company or their agents will be liable jointly or severally for any loss due to his or its error or acts of omission or commission, except for his or its own individual misconduct. The Company will indemnify each fiduciary, officer, director or employee of the Company and any Affiliated Company from any and all expenses arising out of his or its responsibilities under the Plan, excepting such expenses and liabilities arising out of his or its own individual willful misconduct.
Liability for Administration of the Plan
 
 
 
9.01 . The Company expects and intends to continue the Plan indefinitely, but necessarily reserves the right, by action of the Board of Directors, to amend, alter, suspend or terminate the Plan in whole or in part, and at any time; that, without the written consent of the Participant, no such amendment or termination shall adversely affect the rights of such Participants, or the beneficiaries of such Participant, with respect to benefits accrued by that Participant under the Plan prior to the date on which final action is taken with respect to such amendment or termination, and in the event that such amendment or termination adversely affects the rights of such Participant, or the beneficiaries of such Participant, the accrued benefits of such Participant under the Plan immediately prior to such amendment or termination shall become nonforfeitable, and that the provisions of the Plan relating to a Change in Control, including, without limitation, Sections 1.10, 1.37 and 6.04, may not be amended in a manner adverse to Participants after a Change in Control or before, but in connection with, a Change in Control.
Right to Amend or Terminate
provided, however,
provided, further,
 
9.02 . No benefits payable under the Plan will be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge, and any action by way of anticipating, alienating, selling, transferring, assigning, pledging, encumbering or charging the same will be void and of no effect nor will any such benefit be in any manner liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, engagements or torts of the person entitled to such benefit.
Alienation of Benefits
 
9.03 . If a Participant, Spouse, contingent annuitant or Beneficiary entitled to receive any benefits hereunder is a minor, or is deemed by the Plan Administrator or is adjudged to be legally incapable of giving a valid receipt and discharge for such benefits, they will be paid to the duly appointed guardian or committee of such minor or incompetent, or they may be paid to such person or persons who the Plan Administrator believes is or are caring for or supporting such minors or incompetents. Any such payments, to the extent thereof, will be a complete discharge for the payment of such benefit.
Payment to Minors and Incompetents
 
9.04 . If any benefit under the Plan had been payable to and unclaimed by any person for a period of four years since the whereabouts or existence of such person was last known to the Plan Administrator, the Plan Administrator may direct that all rights of such person to payments accrued and to future payments be terminated absolutely, provided that if such person subsequently appears and identifies himself to the satisfaction of the Plan Administrator, then the liability will be reinstated.
Unclaimed Benefit
 
9.05 . The Plan is purely voluntary on the part of the Company. Neither the establishment of the Plan, nor any amendment thereto, nor the creation of any fund or account, nor the payment of any benefit will be construed as conferring upon any Employee or Participant the right to be retained in the employ of the Company or any Affiliated Company, and all Employees and Participants will remain subject to discharge, discipline or termination to the same extent as if the Plan had never been established.
Plan Voluntary
 
9.06 . Whenever used herein, the masculine pronoun will include the feminine and the singular the plural, unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context.
Gender
 
9.07 . The Plan will be construed, enforced and administered according to the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. In the event any provision of the Plan is held illegal or invalid for any reason, it will not affect the remaining provisions of the Plan, but the Plan will be construed and enforced as if such illegal and invalid provision had not been included therein.
Construction
 

Exhibit 10.14
 
 
 
 
The purpose of the Sunoco, Inc. Retainer Stock Plan for Outside Directors (the "Plan") is to provide ownership of the Company's Common Stock to Outside Directors of the Sunoco, Inc. Board of Directors by paying, in shares of Common Stock, a portion of the retainer fee paid to each Outside Director, and thereby improve the Company's ability to attract and retain highly qualified individuals to serve as directors of the Company; provide competitive remuneration for Board service; enhance the breadth of Outside Director remuneration; and strengthen the commonality of interest between directors and shareholders.
 
 
This Plan shall become effective upon its approval by the shareholders of the Company.
 
 
In this Plan, the following definitions apply:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The issuance or delivery of any shares of Common Stock may be postponed by the Company for such period as may be required to comply with any applicable requirements under the federal securities laws, any applicable listing requirements of any national securities exchange, or any requirements under any other law or regulation applicable to the issuance or delivery of such shares. The Company shall not be obligated to issue or deliver any such shares if the issuance or delivery thereof shall constitute a violation of any provision of any law or of any regulation of any governmental authority or any national securities exchange.
 
 
In the event of any change in the outstanding shares of Common Stock by reason of a stock dividend or distribution, reorganization, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, split-up, combination, exchange of shares of Common Stock or the like, the Board may appropriately adjust the number of shares of Common Stock which may be issued under this Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 


