FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20060208151448.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
The information set forth in Item 5.02 below is incorporated by reference.
 
As of February 2, 2006, Sunoco, Inc. ("Sunoco" or the "Company") entered into agreements with Michael J. Hennigan and Vincent J. Kelley, newly elected Senior Vice Presidents of Sunoco, providing for indemnification in accordance with customary terms and conditions.
 
The form of such Amended and Restated Indemnification Agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.1 of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004, filed May 7, 2004, and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the Amended Schedule to the Form of the Amended and Restated Indemnification Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
On February 2, 2006, the Board of Directors of Sunoco, Inc. elected Joel E. Maness to Executive Vice President, Refining and Supply. In addition, the Board of Directors elected the following two new officers: Michael J. Hennigan to Senior Vice President, Supply, Trading, Sales and Transportation, and Vincent J. Kelley to Senior Vice President, Refining.
 
Mr. Maness, 55, prior to his election, served as Senior Vice President, Refining and Supply since September 2001. He served as Senior Vice President, Northeast Refining from November 2000 to September 2001. Mr. Maness will also serve as Chairman of Sunoco's Operating Committee.
 
Mr. Hennigan, 46, prior to his election, served as Vice President of Product Trading, Sales and Supply since March 2001. From October 2000 to March 2001, he served as General Manager of Northeast Refining Wholesale Fuels, Marketing and Product Supply. In his new position, Mr. Hennigan will be responsible for all commercial supply and trading activities involving crude oil and refined products, as well as wholesale marketing and transportation operations.
 
Mr. Kelley, 46, prior to his election, served as Vice President, Northeast Refining, since March 2001. From September 2000, when he joined Sunoco, to March 2001, he served as Manager of the Philadelphia Refinery. In his new position, Mr. Kelley will be responsible for the management of the Philadelphia, Marcus Hook, Eagle Point, Toledo and Tulsa refineries.
 
A copy of the press release announcing these elections is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
The Indemnification Agreements between Sunoco, Inc. and the directors, executive officers, trustees, fiduciaries, employees or agents named below are identical in all material respects.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Sunoco, Inc.
1735 Market Street
Philadelphia, Pa. 19103-7583
 
 
 
PHILADELPHIA, February 3, 2006  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) today announced the promotion of Joel H. Maness to Executive Vice President and Michael J. Hennigan and Vincent J. Kelley to Senior Vice President. Sunoco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John G. Drosdick said, "Joel, Mike and Vince are being promoted to recognize the significant contributions that each of them has made to the company's success and to expand their leadership roles for future growth." Hennigan and Kelley will report to Maness.
 
Joel H. Maness, 55, is appointed Executive Vice President of Refining and Supply. In that role he will continue to lead the Refining and Supply Group and focus on his added responsibility as Chairman of Sunoco's Operating Committee. Maness joined Sunoco in 2000 as Senior Vice President in charge of Northeast Refining and Chemicals. Prior to that he spent 27 years at Mobil where he held a variety of assignments in health, environmental & safety, refining, marketing, supply, and finance. He holds a bachelor's degree in Chemical Engineering from Texas A&M University.
 
Michael J. Hennigan, 46, is appointed Senior Vice President, Supply, Trading, Sales and Transportation. Hennigan will be responsible for all commercial supply and trading activities involving crude and products as well as wholesale marketing and transportation operations. He previously held the position of Vice President, Product Trading, Sales and Supply overseeing the Products organization. Hennigan has nearly 25 years of experience with Sunoco and has held a number of positions in engineering, operations, planning and economics, financial analysis and strategic planning. He joined Sunoco in 1981 and holds a bachelor's degree in Chemical Engineering from Drexel University.
 
Sunoco Announces Promotions
Page 2
 
Vincent J. Kelley, 46, is appointed Senior Vice President, Refining. He will be responsible for the management of the Philadelphia, Marcus Hook, Eagle Point, Toledo and Tulsa refineries with over 900,000 barrels a day of crude oil capacity. Kelley joined Sunoco in September 2000 as manager of the Philadelphia Refinery and was named Vice President, Northeast Refining in March 2001. Prior to joining Sunoco, Kelley was with ExxonMobil where he held a number of operations, maintenance and technical positions and was responsible for global environmental remediation projects. He holds both a Bachelor's Degree in Mechanical Engineering and a Masters Degree in Engineering Management from Drexel University.
 
Sunoco, Inc., headquartered in Philadelphia, PA, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of petroleum and petrochemical products. With 900,000 barrels per day of refining capacity, approximately 4,800 retail sites selling gasoline and convenience items, approximately 4,500 miles of crude oil and refined product owned and operated pipelines and 38 product terminals, Sunoco is one of the largest independent refiner-marketers in the United States. Sunoco is a significant manufacturer of petrochemicals with annual sales of approximately five billion pounds, largely chemical intermediates used to make fibers, plastics, film and resins. Utilizing a unique, patented technology, Sunoco also has the capacity to manufacture over 2.5 million tons annually of high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for use in the steel industry.
 
Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although Sunoco believes that the assumptions underlying these statements are reasonable, investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and necessarily involve risks that may affect Sunoco's business prospects and performance causing actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the foregoing release. Such risks and uncertainties include, by way of example and not of limitation: general business and economic conditions; competitive products and pricing; effects of weather conditions and natural disasters on the Company's operating facilities and on product supply and demand; changes in refining, marketing and chemical margins; variation in petroleum-based commodity prices and availability of crude oil and feedstock supply or transportation; effects of transportation disruptions; changes in the price differentials between light-sweet and heavy-sour crude oils; fluctuations in supply of feedstocks and demand for products manufactured; changes in product specifications; availability and pricing of oxygenates; phase-outs or restrictions on the use of MTBE; changes in operating conditions and costs; changes in the expected level of environmental capital, operating or remediation expenditures; age of, and changes in the reliability, efficiency and capacity of, the Company's or a third party's operating facilities; potential equipment malfunction; potential labor-relations problems; the legislative and regulatory environment; ability to identify acquisitions, execute them under favorable terms and integrate them into the Company's existing businesses; ability to enter
Sunoco Announces Promotions
Page 3
 
into joint ventures and other similar arrangements under favorable terms; delays and/or costs related to plant construction, improvements or repairs and the issuance of applicable permits; nonperformance by or disputes with major customers, suppliers, dealers, distributors or other business partners; changes in financial markets impacting pension expense and funding requirements; political and economic conditions, including the impact of potential terrorist acts and international hostilities; and changes in the status of, or initiation of new, litigation and/or arbitration proceedings. These and other applicable risks and uncertainties have been described more fully in Sunoco's Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 3, 2005 and in other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Sunoco undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this release, whether as a result of new information or future events.
 


