FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20060803124239.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The press release announcing the financial results for the Company's 2006 second quarter is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and 7.01 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On August 2, 2006, Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's 2006 second quarter. Additional information concerning the Company's second quarter earnings, presented to investors in a teleconference call on August 3, 2006, is contained in a copy of the slide presentation attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Sunoco, Inc.
1735 Market Street
Philadelphia, Pa. 19103-7583
For further information contact                                                         For release: IMMEDIATELY
Jerry Davis (media) 215-977-6298
Tom Harr (investors) 215-977-6764
PHILADELPHIA, August 2, 2006  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) today reported net income of $426 million ($3.22 per share diluted) for the second quarter of 2006 versus $242 million ($1.75 per share diluted) for the second quarter of 2005. For the first half of 2006, Sunoco reported net income of $505 million ($3.80 per share diluted) versus $358 million ($2.58 per share diluted) in the first half of 2005. There were no special items in either the quarterly or year-to-date periods.
"Strong refining margins, particularly for ethanol-blended gasoline and low-sulfur diesel products, led to record quarterly earnings," said John G. Drosdick, Sunoco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Margins strengthened during the quarter as the tight supply/demand balance in refining markets continued. Despite the higher prices associated with crude oil and product price increases, we continued to see steady demand for transportation fuels in the second quarter."
Drosdick continued, "In this market, our income again came largely from Refining and Supply, which earned $409 million for the quarter. With overall conversion unit utilization rates at approximately 98 percent, operations were strong and enabled us to maximize supply of premium gasoline and distillate products.
"Refining margins have remained relatively strong into the third quarter to date. Unscheduled maintenance in our Northeast Refining system reduced production by approximately four million barrels in July but is now complete and no further significant maintenance is planned for the quarter. With continued modest demand growth, the outlook for refining remains favorable.
 
SUNOCO 2Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 2
"Non-refining business unit earnings totaled $40 million for the quarter. Retail Marketing earnings were up versus a year ago due to slightly higher retail gasoline margins. In our Chemicals business, the further increases in chemical feedstock cost, particularly propylene, led to much lower margins for polypropylene and phenol than in the 2005 second quarter. Market conditions for these businesses are similar at this time."
Drosdick added, "We continued our share repurchase program - $150 million during the quarter and $198 million year-to-date and have reduced our shares outstanding by two percent so far this year. With a recently approved increase, the remaining share repurchase authorization is currently $609 million."
Commenting on capital expenditures, Drosdick said, "We continue to execute our capital program in Refining and Supply and update estimates for future projects. While we still expect capital spending of approximately $600-$700 million annually in this business over the next several years, tightened market conditions for engineering, procurement and construction have raised cost estimates and lengthened anticipated completion schedules for many projects being considered. These pressures are likely to result in the extension of completion dates for some projects and the deferral or cancellation of others that do not meet required investment-return criteria. While potential economic returns for most refining upgrade or expansion projects remain attractive, we will continue to be disciplined when evaluating discretionary growth investments."
DETAILS OF SECOND QUARTER RESULTS
REFINING AND SUPPLY
Refining and Supply earned $409 million in the second quarter versus $212 million in the second quarter of 2005. The increase in earnings was due to higher realized margins in both the Northeast and MidContinent regions, particularly for wholesale gasoline and distillate products. Strong premiums for ethanol-blended gasoline and low-sulfur diesel fuel supported the wholesale marketplace throughout the second quarter. Partially offsetting these positive factors were higher expenses and lower production volumes. The higher expenses in the quarter were mainly the result of higher purchased fuel costs and expenses associated with maintenance activities. Also contributing to the increase in expenses were operating costs to produce low-sulfur fuels.
Total crude unit throughput averaged 863.8 thousand barrels daily (96 percent utilization) for the quarter, with total production available for sale approximating 84 million barrels. MidContinent production was lower than the prior-year quarter due to a maintenance turnaround at the Toledo refinery that extended from the end of March into mid-April.
 
SUNOCO 2Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 3
RETAIL MARKETING
Retail Marketing earned $10 million in the second quarter of 2006 versus $7 million in the second quarter of 2005. The increase was primarily due to improved retail gasoline margins. Monthly gasoline and diesel throughput per company owned or leased outlet was approximately 3 percent higher than the second quarter of 2005.
CHEMICALS
Chemicals earned $8 million in the second quarter of 2006 versus $30 million in the prior-year period. The decrease in earnings was due primarily to lower margins for both phenol and polypropylene, partially offset by higher sales volumes, lower expenses and a $4 million deferred tax benefit recognized in the second quarter of 2006 as a result of a state law change. The average gross margin for phenol and related products was almost 6 cents per pound lower than the second quarter of 2005 largely due to weaker acetone and bisphenol-A markets. Polypropylene margins were slightly over 2 cents per pound lower than the year-ago period.
LOGISTICS
Earnings for the Logistics segment were $12 million in the second quarter versus $9 million in the second quarter of 2005. The increase was due largely to higher earnings attributable to Eastern pipeline operations and crude oil acquisition and marketing activities. Operating results from the Partnership's acquisitions completed in 2006 and 2005 also contributed to the increase. Partially offsetting these positive factors was Sunoco's reduced ownership in the Partnership subsequent to the public equity offerings in 2006 and 2005.
COKE
The Coke business earned $10 million in the second quarter of 2006 versus $13 million in the second quarter of 2005. The decrease was primarily due to a $4 million partial phase-out of tax credits which resulted from the high level of crude oil prices during the first half of 2006. Year-to-date, Sun Coke recorded only 61 percent of the benefit of the tax credits that otherwise would have been available without regard to the phase-out.
CORPORATE AND OTHER
Corporate administrative expenses were $11 million after tax in the current quarter versus $16 million in the comparable quarter last year. The decrease was largely due to lower accruals for performance-related incentive compensation.
 
SUNOCO 2Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 4
Net financing expenses were $12 million after tax in the second quarter of 2006 versus $13 million in the second quarter of 2005. The decline was primarily due to higher interest income, partially offset by an increase in interest expense.
SIX MONTH RESULTS
Sunoco earned $505 million, or $3.80 per share of common stock on a diluted basis, for the first six months of 2006 versus $358 million, or $2.58 per share, in the comparable 2005 period. The increase was primarily due to higher wholesale fuels margins. Also contributing to the improvement in earnings were higher retail gasoline margins, a lower effective income tax rate and higher earnings from Sunoco's Logistics business. Partially offsetting these positive factors were higher expenses, including fuel charges; lower chemical margins; and lower production of refined products.
Sunoco, Inc., headquartered in Philadelphia, PA, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of petroleum and petrochemical products. With 900,000 barrels per day of refining capacity, over 4,700 retail sites selling gasoline and convenience items, approximately 5,400 miles of crude oil and refined product owned and operated pipelines and 38 product terminals, Sunoco is one of the largest independent refiner-marketers in the United States. Sunoco is a significant manufacturer of petrochemicals with annual sales of approximately five billion pounds, largely chemical intermediates used to make fibers, plastics, film and resins. Utilizing a unique, patented technology, Sunoco also has the capacity to manufacture over 2.5 million tons annually of high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for use in the steel industry.
Anyone interested in obtaining further insights into the second quarter's results can monitor the Company's quarterly teleconference call, which is scheduled for 3:00 p.m. ET on August 3, 2006. It can be accessed through Sunoco's Web site - www.SunocoInc.com. It is suggested that you visit the site prior to the teleconference to ensure that you have downloaded any necessary software.
Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although Sunoco believes that the assumptions underlying these statements are reasonable, investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and necessarily involve risks that may affect Sunoco's business prospects and performance causing actual results to differ from those discussed in the foregoing release. Such risks and uncertainties include, by way of example and not of limitation: general economic, financial and business conditions which could affect Sunoco's financial condition and results of operation; changes in competition and competitive practices, including the impact of foreign imports; effects of weather conditions and natural disasters on the Company's operating facilities and on product supply and demand; changes in refined product and chemical margins; variation in
 
SUNOCO 2Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 5
petroleum-based commodity prices and availability of crude oil and feedstock supply or transportation; effects of transportation disruptions; changes in the price differentials between light-sweet and heavy-sour crude oils; changes in the marketplace which may affect supply and demand for Sunoco's products; changes in the level of operating expenses; changes in product specifications; availability and pricing of ethanol; changes in the expected level of environmental capital, operating or remediation expenditures; age of, and changes in the reliability, efficiency and capacity of, the Company's operating facilities or those of third parties; effects of adverse events relating to the operation of the Company's facilities and to the transportation and storage of hazardous materials (including equipment malfunction, explosions, fires, spills, and the effects of severe weather conditions); risks related to labor relations and workplace safety; changes in applicable statutes and government regulations or their interpretations, including those relating to the environment and global warming; changes in tax laws or their interpretations, including pension funding requirements; ability to identify acquisitions, execute them under favorable terms and integrate them into the Company's existing businesses; ability to enter into joint ventures and other similar arrangements under favorable terms; delays and/or costs related to construction, improvements and/or repairs of facilities (including shortages of skilled labor, the issuance of applicable permits and inflation); nonperformance by or disputes with major customers, suppliers, dealers, distributors or other business partners; changes in financial markets impacting pension expense and funding requirements; political and economic conditions in the markets in which the Company, its suppliers and customers operate, including the impact of potential terrorist acts and international hostilities; military conflicts between, or internal instability in, one or more oil producing countries, governmental actions and other disruptions in the ability to obtain crude oil; and changes in the status of, or initiation of new, litigation, arbitration or other proceedings to which the Company is a party or liability resulting from such litigation, arbitration or other proceedings, including natural resource damage claims. These and other applicable risks and uncertainties have been described more fully in Sunoco's First Quarter 2006 Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 4, 2006 and in other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Sunoco undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this release, whether as a result of new information or future events.
 
SUNOCO 2Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 6
 
                       
 
SUNOCO 2Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 7
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 8
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 9
 
                       
 
SUNOCO 2Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 10
 
                       
 
SUNOCO 2Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 11
 
                       
 
SUNOCO 2Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 12
 
                       
 
SUNOCO 2Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 13
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 14
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 15
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 16
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 17
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 18
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 19
 



