FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20060303133359.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
The Compensation Committee of the Sunoco, Inc. Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") approved the 2005 annual incentive awards (bonuses), which are expected to be paid in March 2006, for the named executive officers (to be reported in the Company's 2006 proxy statement) under the Sunoco, Inc. Executive Incentive Plan (for certain key employees, including the named executive officers). The annual incentive awards were earned based upon the achievement of performance goals established in February 2005, which were reviewed and approved by the Compensation Committee. The awards were based upon the Company meeting weighted objectives for the following principal measurements:
 
 
as modified by certain health, environment and safety performance goals, which vary by business unit.
The amounts of the annual incentive awards for the named executive officers are as follows:
 
On March 1, 2006, the Compensation Committee also established the performance criteria for the 2006 annual incentive awards under the Sunoco, Inc. Executive Incentive Plan. The 2006 annual incentive awards will be based upon the Company meeting weighted objectives for the following principal measurements:
 
 
as modified by certain health, environment and safety performance goals, which vary by business unit.
A copy of the Sunoco, Inc. Executive Incentive Plan, as amended and restated March 1, 2006, was filed as Exhibit 10.8 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 filed on March 3, 2006, and is incorporated herein by reference.
Sunoco amended and restated it Articles of Incorporation effective March 1, 2006 by incorporating a previously filed change of address of its registered office.
A copy of the amended and restated Articles of Incorporation of Sunoco, Inc., was filed as Exhibit 3.(i) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 filed on March 3, 2006, and is incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 


