FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20061102120022.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The press release announcing the financial results for the Company's 2006 third quarter is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and 7.01 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On November 1, 2006, Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's 2006 third quarter. Additional information concerning the Company's third quarter earnings, presented to investors in a teleconference call on November 2, 2006, is contained in a copy of the slide presentation attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Sunoco, Inc.
1735 Market Street
Philadelphia, Pa. 19103-7583
 
PHILADELPHIA, November 1, 2006  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) today reported net income of $351 million ($2.76 per share diluted) for the third quarter of 2006 versus $329 million ($2.39 per share diluted) for the third quarter of 2005. Excluding special items, income was $357 million ($2.60 per share diluted) for the third quarter of 2005. There were no special items in the current third-quarter period.
For the first nine months of 2006, Sunoco reported net income of $856 million ($6.53 per share diluted) versus $687 million ($4.97 per share diluted) for the first nine months of 2005. Excluding special items, Sunoco's income for the first nine months of 2005 was $715 million ($5.17 per share diluted). There were no special items in the 2006 year-to-date period.
"Continued strong Refining and Supply earnings and a record quarterly result from our Retail Marketing business led to an excellent quarter for the Company," said John G. Drosdick, Sunoco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Refining and Supply earned $273 million during the quarter, with margins and operations particularly strong in our MidContinent Refining system. Realized margins for MidContinent operations averaged almost $15 per barrel and crude unit utilization was 97 percent of rated capacity. In the Northeast, realized margins on average were $8.35 per barrel, as declining wholesale gasoline margins were partially offset by continued strong value-added margins, particularly for the new specification on-road diesel products. Unscheduled maintenance in our Northeast Refining system reduced production by approximately three million barrels in the third quarter.
"Offsetting some of the wholesale gasoline margin decline during the quarter, our Retail Marketing business earned $77 million, as crude oil and wholesale gasoline prices fell sharply in August and September. While retail prices for gasoline declined from their early August high through the end of September by approximately 70 cents per gallon, average margins were strong.
 
SUNOCO 3Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 2
 
Commenting on the fourth quarter, Drosdick said, "With lower refining margins and high industry inventories entering the quarter, we took the opportunity in October to complete refinery maintenance activity at several processing units in our Northeast system and at our Toledo refinery. The work included a combination of accelerated turnaround work and other opportunistic maintenance and will reduce October net production by approximately three million barrels. No further significant maintenance is scheduled for the remainder of this year. In Retail Marketing, retail gasoline price declines continued into October and margins have returned to more historical levels."
Drosdick added, "We continue to execute our share reduction program, spending $536 million during the quarter and ended September with 123.1 million shares outstanding. Year-to-date, there has been a 10 million net reduction (7.5 percent) in outstanding shares. This represents a meaningful contribution to our established record of returning cash to Sunoco's shareholders. With the Board-approved increase announced in early September, we currently have remaining share repurchase authorization of approximately $1.1 billion."
DETAILS OF THIRD QUARTER RESULTS
REFINING AND SUPPLY
Refining and Supply earned $273 million in the third quarter versus $341 million in the third quarter of 2005. In comparison with last year's hurricane-impacted third quarter, much lower average margins and production in Sunoco's Northeast refining system were partially offset by higher realized margins and production in the MidContinent system. In the Northeast system, margins declined $2.17 per barrel, as much lower wholesale gasoline margins were partially offset by improved petrochemical margins. In the MidContinent system, margins were up $3.30 per barrel due to stronger distillate, petrochemical and lubricant margins.
Also impacting this year's third quarter were higher expenses, largely due to higher purchased fuel and maintenance costs and higher operating costs to produce low-sulfur fuels.
Total crude unit throughput averaged 850 thousand barrels daily (94 percent utilization) for the quarter, with total production available for sale approximating 83 million barrels.
RETAIL MARKETING
Retail Marketing earned $77 million in the third quarter of 2006 versus $6 million in the third quarter of 2005. The increase was primarily due to higher retail gasoline margins. Monthly gasoline and diesel throughput per company owned or leased outlet was approximately 5 percent higher than the third quarter of 2005.
 
SUNOCO 3Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 3
 
CHEMICALS
Chemicals earned $5 million in the third quarter of 2006 versus $23 million in the prior-year period. The decrease in earnings was due primarily to lower margins and sales volumes for both phenol and polypropylene as prices for propylene feedstocks continued to rise.
LOGISTICS
Earnings for the Logistics segment were $7 million in both third quarter periods. Higher earnings attributable to Eastern pipeline and terminalling operations and operating results from the Partnership's acquisitions completed in 2006 and 2005 were offset by lower earnings from crude oil acquisition and marketing activities and Sunoco's reduced ownership in the Partnership.
COKE
The Coke business earned $9 million in the third quarter of 2006 versus $15 million in the third quarter of 2005. The decrease was primarily due to a $5 million partial phase-out of tax credits. Year-to-date, Sun Coke recorded only 53 percent of the benefit of the tax credits that otherwise would have been available without regard to the phase-out.
CORPORATE AND OTHER
Corporate administrative expenses were $11 million after tax in the current quarter versus $25 million in the comparable quarter last year. The decrease was largely due to lower accruals for stock-related incentive compensation.
Net financing expenses and other were $9 million after tax in the third quarter of 2006 versus $10 million in the third quarter of 2005 as higher interest income was largely offset by lower capitalized interest. In addition, the third quarter of 2006 includes a $5 million net after-tax gain attributable to income tax matters and a $7 million after-tax charge attributable to a correction of an error in the computation of the preferential return of third-party investors in Sunoco's cokemaking operations.
SPECIAL ITEMS
During the third quarter of 2005, Sunoco settled certain federal income tax issues and established a provision for certain state and local tax matters, the net effect of which was to increase net income by $18 million. Also during the third quarter of 2005, Sunoco recognized a $46 million after-tax loss associated with Chemicals' phenol supply contract dispute.
 
SUNOCO 3Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 4
 
NINE MONTH RESULTS
Sunoco earned $856 million, or $6.53 per share of common stock on a diluted basis, for the first nine months of 2006 versus $687 million, or $4.97 per share, in the comparable 2005 period. The increase was primarily due to higher wholesale fuels margins, higher retail gasoline margins and the absence of the loss associated with the phenol supply contract dispute. Partially offsetting these positive factors were higher expenses, lower chemical margins and lower refinery production volumes.
Sunoco, Inc., headquartered in Philadelphia, PA, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of petroleum and petrochemical products. With 900,000 barrels per day of refining capacity, nearly 4,700 retail sites selling gasoline and convenience items, approximately 5,400 miles of crude oil and refined product owned and operated pipelines and 38 product terminals, Sunoco is one of the largest independent refiner-marketers in the United States. Sunoco is a significant manufacturer of petrochemicals with annual sales of approximately five billion pounds, largely chemical intermediates used to make fibers, plastics, film and resins. Utilizing a unique, patented technology, Sunoco also has the capacity to manufacture over 2.5 million tons annually of high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for use in the steel industry.
Anyone interested in obtaining further insights into the third quarter's results can monitor the Company's quarterly teleconference call, which is scheduled for 3:00 p.m. ET on November 2, 2006. It can be accessed through Sunoco's Web site-www.SunocoInc.com. It is suggested that you visit the site prior to the teleconference to ensure that you have downloaded any necessary software.
Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although Sunoco believes that the assumptions underlying these statements are reasonable, investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and necessarily involve risks that may affect Sunoco's business prospects and performance, causing actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the foregoing release. Such risks and uncertainties include, by way of example and not of limitation: general economic, financial and business conditions which could affect Sunoco's financial condition and results of operations; changes in competition and competitive practices, including the impact of foreign imports; effects of weather conditions and natural disasters on the Company's operating facilities and on product supply and demand; changes in refined product and chemical margins; variation in petroleum-based commodity prices and availability of crude oil and feedstock supply or transportation; effects of transportation disruptions; changes in the price differentials between light-sweet and heavy-sour crude oils; changes in the marketplace which may affect supply and demand for Sunoco's products; changes in the level of operating expenses; changes in product specifications; availability and pricing of ethanol; changes in the expected level of environmental capital, operating or
 
SUNOCO 3Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 5
 
remediation expenditures; age of, and changes in the reliability, efficiency and capacity of, the Company's operating facilities or those of third parties; effects of adverse events relating to the operation of the Company's facilities and to the transportation and storage of hazardous materials (including equipment malfunction, explosions, fires, spills, and the effects of severe weather conditions); risks related to labor relations and workplace safety; changes in applicable statutes and government regulations or their interpretations, including those relating to the environment and global warming; changes in tax laws or their interpretations, including pension funding requirements; ability to identify acquisitions, execute them under favorable terms and integrate them into the Company's existing businesses; ability to enter into joint ventures and other similar arrangements under favorable terms; delays and/or costs related to construction, improvements and/or repairs of facilities (including shortages of skilled labor, the issuance of applicable permits and inflation); nonperformance by or disputes with major customers, suppliers, dealers, distributors or other business partners; changes in financial markets impacting pension expense and funding requirements; political and economic conditions in the markets in which the Company, its suppliers and customers operate, including the impact of potential terrorist acts and international hostilities; military conflicts between, or internal instability in, one or more oil producing countries, governmental actions and other disruptions in the ability to obtain crude oil; and changes in the status of, or initiation of new, litigation, arbitration or other proceedings to which the Company is a party or liability resulting from such litigation, arbitration or other proceedings, including natural resource damage claims. These and other applicable risks and uncertainties have been described more fully in Sunoco's Second Quarter 2006 Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 3, 2006 and in other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Sunoco undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this release, whether as a result of new information or future events.
 
SUNOCO 3Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 6
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 7
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 8
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 9
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 10
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 11
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 12
 
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 13
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 14
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 15
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 16
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 17
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 18
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 19
 
 
 



