FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20060908122402.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
(a) The information set forth in Item 5.02 below is incorporated by reference.
As of September 8, 2006, Sunoco, Inc. ("Sunoco" or the "Company") entered into an agreement with John P. Jones, III, a newly elected director of Sunoco, providing for indemnification in accordance with customary terms and conditions.
The form of such Amended and Restated Indemnification Agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.1 of the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2004, filed May 7, 2004, and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the Amended Schedule to the Form of the Amended and Restated Indemnification Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
(b) Sunoco's Board of Directors (the "Board") believes that the compensation program for Sunoco's independent directors should be designed to attract experienced and highly qualified directors; provide appropriate compensation for their time, efforts, commitment and contributions to Sunoco and Sunoco's shareholders; and align the interests of the independent directors and Sunoco's shareholders. The Governance Committee of the Board engages a third-party compensation consultant each year to advise it as to the "best practices" and emerging trends in director compensation. The compensation consultant also benchmarks Sunoco's director compensation compared to the proxy performance peer group, the oil industry generally and general industry data.
As part of its annual review of director compensation, the Governance Committee recommended and the full Board approved on September 7, 2006, an increase to the cash portion of the annual retainer from $50,000 to $65,000. This change will be effective October 1, 2006.
A summary of director compensation reflecting the above-referenced action is attached as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On September 7, 2006, the Board, pursuant to its by-laws, increased the number of directors from 10 to 11, and elected John P. Jones, III, as a director of Sunoco, effective September 8, 2006, to hold office until the next annual meeting and until his successor has been duly elected and qualified. Mr. Jones is currently Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer of Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. The Board also elected Mr. Jones to serve on Sunoco's Compensation Committee and Governance Committee, effective September 8, 2006.
A copy of the press release announcing the election of Mr. Jones is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On September 7, 2006, Sunoco issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $1 billion of Sunoco common stock. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
The Indemnification Agreements between Sunoco, Inc. and the directors, executive officers, trustees, fiduciaries, employees or agents named below are identical in all material respects.
 

Exhibit 10.2
Sunoco's Board of Directors believes that the compensation program for Sunoco's independent directors should be designed to attract experienced and highly qualified directors; provide appropriate compensation for their time, efforts, commitment and contributions to Sunoco and Sunoco's shareholders; and align the interests of the independent directors and Sunoco's shareholders. The Governance Committee of the Board engages a third-party compensation consultant each year to advise it as to the "best practices" and emerging trends in director compensation. The compensation consultant also benchmarks Sunoco's director compensation compared to the proxy performance peer group, the oil industry generally and general industry data. As discussed in the Corporate Governance Guidelines, directors are compensated partially in Sunoco common stock or stock equivalents to better align their interests with those of Sunoco's shareholders. Currently, equity-based compensation represents a substantial portion of the total compensation package. The Chief Executive Officer is not paid for his services as a director. The following table summarizes the current compensation program for Sunoco's independent directors.
 
NOTE TO TABLE:
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Sunoco, Inc.
1735 Market Street
Philadelphia, Pa. 19103-7583
 
PHILADELPHIA, September 7, 2006  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) today announced that John P. Jones, III, has been elected to its board of directors, effective September 8, 2006. Mr. Jones is currently chairman, president, and chief executive officer of Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. He is also a director of Automatic Data Processing, Inc.
"We are extremely pleased that John has joined Sunoco's board," said John G. Drosdick, Sunoco chairman and chief executive officer. "His extensive experience and knowledge will complement that of our existing board and bring added value to our deliberations."
Sunoco also announced that the Board of Directors had approved an additional $1 billion of share repurchase authorization. The Company also has approximately $172 million of repurchase authority remaining under the previous program approved in July 2006. To date, the Company has repurchased approximately 8.6 million shares in 2006 for approximately $635 million.
"The repurchase of Sunoco's stock has led to a meaningful reduction in the Company's shares outstanding and remains a core component of our strategy to increase shareholder value," said Drosdick. "Since January 1, 2000, we have repurchased approximately 69 million shares (for approximately $2.3 billion), reducing our net shares outstanding by 31 percent. The additional authorization provides increased capacity for us to continue the program in the future."
Sunoco, Inc., headquartered in Philadelphia, PA, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of petroleum and petrochemical products. With 900,000 barrels per day of refining capacity, over 4,700 retail sites selling gasoline and convenience items, approximately 5,400 miles of crude oil and refined product owned and operated pipelines and 38 product terminals, Sunoco is one of the largest independent refiner-marketers in the United States. Sunoco is a significant manufacturer of petrochemicals with annual sales of approximately five billion pounds, largely chemical intermediates used to make fibers, plastics, film and
resins. Utilizing a unique, patented technology, Sunoco also has the capacity to manufacture over 2.5 million tons annually of high- quality metallurgical-grade coke for use in the steel industry. For additional information, visit Sunoco's Web site at
www.Sunocoinc.com.
Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although Sunoco believes that the assumptions underlying these statements are reasonable, investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and necessarily involve risks that may affect Sunoco's business prospects and performance causing actual results to differ from those discussed in the foregoing release. Such risks and uncertainties include, by way of example and not of limitation: general economic, financial and business conditions; competitive products and pricing; effects of weather conditions and natural disasters on the Company's operating facilities and on product supply and demand; changes in refined product and chemical margins; variation in petroleum-based commodity prices and availability of crude oil and feedstock supply or transportation; effects of transportation disruptions; changes in the price differentials between light-sweet and heavy-sour crude oils; fluctuations in supply of feedstocks and demand for products manufactured; changes in product specifications; availability and pricing of ethanol; changes in operating conditions and costs; changes in the expected level of environmental capital, operating or remediation expenditures; age of, and changes in the reliability and efficiency of, the Company's or a third party's operating facilities; potential equipment malfunction; potential labor relations problems; the legislative and regulatory environment; ability to identify acquisitions, execute them under favorable terms and integrate them into the Company's existing businesses; ability to enter into joint ventures and other similar arrangements under favorable terms; delays and/or costs related to construction, improvements and/or repairs of facilities; nonperformance by or disputes with major customers, suppliers, dealers, distributors or other business partners; changes in financial markets impacting pension expense and funding requirements; political and economic conditions, including the impact of potential terrorist acts and international hostilities; and changes in the status of, or initiation of new, litigation, arbitration or other proceedings. These and other applicable risks and uncertainties have been described more fully in Sunoco's Second Quarter 2006 Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 3, 2006 and in other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Sunoco undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this release, whether as a result of new information or future events.


