FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20060504124525.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
The press release announcing the financial results for the Company's 2006 first quarter is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and 7.01 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
On May 3, 2006, Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's 2006 first quarter. Additional information concerning the Company's first quarter earnings, presented to investors in a teleconference call on May 4, 2006, is contained in a copy of the slide presentation attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Sunoco, Inc.
1735 Market Street
Philadelphia, Pa. 19103-7583
 
PHILADELPHIA, MAY 3, 2006  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) today reported net income of $79 million ($.59 per share diluted) for the first quarter of 2006 versus $116 million ($.83 per share diluted) for the first quarter of 2005. there were no special items in either quarter.
"First-quarter earnings were impacted by a high level of refinery maintenance and rising crude oil prices during the quarter," said John G. Drosdick, Sunoco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "High beginning-of-the-year refined product inventories and unseasonably warm winter weather in the northeastern United States negatively impacted refining margins while rising crude oil prices squeezed retail gasoline and chemical margins during the quarter."
Drosdick continued, "Utilization at our refining facilities was limited to 93 percent for the quarter due to maintenance ahead of this year's driving season. We recently completed a turnaround at our Toledo refinery and are now positioned to run at capacity levels during the peak summer demand months. We are also near completion of the necessary capital investments to ready our refining system for the upcoming diesel fuel specification changes. Still, the current roll-out of ethanol-blended gasoline and the transition to ultra-low-sulfur diesel fuel present significant manufacturing and logistical challenges for the industry. We will direct our best efforts to being a reliable supplier through these transitions.
"We will continue to invest significant capital in our refining facilities. We have spent approximately $700 million to comply with the new low-sulfur gasoline and on-road diesel requirements. Looking ahead, over the next three years, we plan to spend approximately $2 billion to increase production and further improve and maintain our refining system."
 
SUNOCO 1Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 2
DETAILS OF FIRST QUARTER RESULTS
REFINING AND SUPPLY
Refining and Supply earned $73 million in the first quarter versus $108 million in the first quarter of 2005. The decrease in earnings was due to lower production volumes in Northeast Refining and higher expenses. The lower volumes were mainly a result of a previously announced scheduled maintenance turnaround at the Philadelphia refinery in late February and early March, and the Toledo refinery maintenance turnaround at the end of March and the beginning of April. Higher expenses in the quarter were mainly the result of higher purchased fuel costs and expenses associated with maintenance activity. Also contributing to the increase in expenses were operating costs to produce low-sulfur gasoline.
Realized margins for Refining and Supply in the first quarter were slightly higher than the year-ago period with lower margins in Northeast Refining being offset by higher margins in MidContinent Refining.
RETAIL MARKETING
Retail Marketing posted break-even results in the first quarter of 2006 versus an $8 million loss in the first quarter of 2005. While retail gasoline margins were poor during most of the current quarter, they were slightly higher than the year-ago period. Monthly gasoline and diesel throughput per company owned or leased outlet was approximately the same versus the first quarter of 2005.
CHEMICALS
Chemicals earned $14 million in the first quarter of 2006 versus $33 million in the prior-year period. The decrease in earnings was due primarily to lower margins for both phenol and polypropylene and higher expenses, due in part to higher fuel and utility costs.
LOGISTICS
Earnings for the Logistics segment were $6 million in the first quarter versus $3 million in the first quarter of 2005. Earnings in last year's first quarter were impacted by a $3 million after-tax charge associated with a Mid-Valley pipeline spill and a $2 million unfavorable tax adjustment.
 
SUNOCO 1Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 3
COKE
The Coke business earned $14 million in the first quarter of 2006 versus $10 million in the first quarter of 2005. The increase is mainly attributable to the addition of the Haverhill Coke Plant which began operations in March 2005.
CORPORATE AND OTHER
Corporate administrative expenses were $16 million after tax in both the first quarter of 2006 and the first quarter of 2005.
Net financing expenses were $12 million after tax in the first quarter of 2006 versus $14 million in the first quarter of 2005. The decline was primarily due to higher interest income, partially offset by a decrease in capitalized interest.
Sunoco, Inc., headquartered in Philadelphia, PA, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of petroleum and petrochemical products. With 900,000 barrels per day of refining capacity, over 4,700 retail sites selling gasoline and convenience items, approximately 5,400 miles of crude oil and refined product owned and operated pipelines and 38 product terminals, Sunoco is one of the largest independent refiner-marketers in the United States. Sunoco is a significant manufacturer of petrochemicals with annual sales of approximately five billion pounds, largely chemical intermediates used to make fibers, plastics, film and resins. Utilizing a unique, patented technology, Sunoco also has the capacity to manufacture over 2.5 million tons annually of high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for use in the steel industry.
Anyone interested in obtaining further insights into the first quarter's results can monitor the Company's quarterly teleconference call, which is scheduled for 3:00 p.m. ET on May 4, 2006. It can be accessed through Sunoco's Web sitewww.SunocoInc.com. It is suggested that you visit the site prior to the teleconference to ensure that you have downloaded any necessary software.
Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although Sunoco believes that the assumptions underlying these statements are reasonable, investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and necessarily involve risks that may affect Sunoco's business prospects and performance causing actual results to differ from those discussed in the foregoing release. Such risks and uncertainties include, by way of example and not of limitation: general economic, financial and business conditions; competitive products and pricing; effects of weather conditions and natural disasters on the Company's operating facilities and on product supply and demand; changes in refined product and chemical margins; variation in petroleum-based commodity
 
SUNOCO 1Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 4
prices and availability of crude oil and feedstock supply or transportation; effects of transportation disruptions; changes in the price differentials between light-sweet and heavy-sour crude oils; fluctuations in supply of feedstocks and demand for products manufactured; changes in product specifications; availability and pricing of ethanol; changes in operating conditions and costs; changes in the expected level of environmental capital, operating or remediation expenditures; age of, and changes in the reliability and efficiency of, the Company's or a third party's operating facilities; potential equipment malfunction; potential labor relations problems; the legislative and regulatory environment; ability to identify acquisitions, execute them under favorable terms and integrate them into the Company's existing businesses; ability to enter into joint ventures and other similar arrangements under favorable terms; delays and/or costs related to construction, improvements and/or repairs of facilities; nonperformance by or disputes with major customers, suppliers, dealers, distributors or other business partners; changes in financial markets impacting pension expense and funding requirements; political and economic conditions, including the impact of potential terrorist acts and international hostilities; and changes in the status of, or initiation of new, litigation, arbitration or other proceedings. These and other applicable risks and uncertainties have been described more fully in Sunoco's 2005 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 3, 2006 and in other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Sunoco undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this release, whether as a result of new information or future events.
 
SUNOCO 1Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 5
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 6
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 7
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 8
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 9
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 11
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 12
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 13
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 14
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 15
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 16
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q06 EARNINGS, PAGE 17
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
1Q06 Earnings Conference Call May 4, 2006
 
Safe Harbor Statement
This slide presentation should be reviewed in conjunction with Sunoco's First Quarter 2006 earnings conference call, held on May 4, 2006 at 3:00 p.m. ET. You may listen to the audio portion of the conference call on the website or an audio recording will be available after the call's completion by calling 1-800-642-1687 and entering conference ID# 8163181.
Those statements made by representatives of Sunoco during the course of this conference call that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are based upon a number of assumptions by Sunoco concerning future conditions, any or all of which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and necessarily involve risks that may affect Sunoco's business prospects and performance, causing actual results to differ materially from those discussed during this conference call. Such risks and uncertainties include, by way of example and not of limitation: general business and economic conditions; competitive products and pricing; effects of weather conditions and natural disasters on the Company's operating facilities and on product supply and demand; changes in refined product and chemical margins; variation in petroleum-based commodity prices and availability of crude oil and feedstock supply or transportation; effects of transportation disruptions; changes in the price differentials between light-sweet and heavy-sour crude oils; fluctuations in supply of feedstocks and demand for products manufactured; changes in product specifications; availability and pricing of ethanol; changes in operating conditions and costs; changes in the expected level of environmental capital, operating or remediation expenditures; age of, and changes in the reliability, efficiency and capacity of, the Company's or a third party's operating facilities; potential equipment malfunction; potential labor relations problems; the legislative and regulatory environment; ability to identify acquisitions, execute them under favorable terms and integrate them into the Company's existing businesses; ability to enter into joint ventures and other similar arrangements under favorable terms; delays and/or costs related to plant construction, improvements, or repairs and the issuance of applicable permits; non-performance by or disputes with major customers, suppliers, dealers, distributors or other business partners; changes in financial markets impacting pension expense and funding requirements; political and economic conditions, including the impact of potential terrorist acts and international hostilities; and changes in the status of, or initiation of, new litigation and/or arbitration proceedings. These and other applicable risks and uncertainties have been described more fully in Sunoco's 2005 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 3, 2006. Other factors not discussed herein also could materially and adversely affect Sunoco's business prospects and/or performance. All forward-looking statements included in this conference call are expressly qualified in their entirety by the foregoing cautionary statements. Sunoco undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information or future events.
 
Earnings Profile
Income Before Special Items*, MM$
$400 $300 $200 $100 $0
$116
$242
$357
$297
$79
 
Earnings Before Special Items*  1Q06 vs. 1Q05, MM$
116
1Q05 Actual
9
79
1Q06 Actual
5
 
Earnings Before Special Items  1Q06 vs. 4Q05, MM$
297
4Q05 Actual
(233)
21
14
79
1Q06 Actual
 
Key Margin Indicators
 
Refining & Supply  Realized Margin vs. Benchmark, $/B
$2.00 $1.00 $0.00
$1.60
$1.49
$0.30
$0.86
$0.46
Northeast MidContinent
 
Key Volume Indicators
9
 
Financial Indicators
10
 
For More Information
Media releases and SEC filings are available on our website at www.SunocoInc.com
Contact for more information:
11


