FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20070202113857.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On February 1, 2007, Sunoco, Inc. issued a press release announcing that its board of directors has approved an increase in the Company's quarterly dividend. The quarterly dividend will increase 10 percent to a new quarterly dividend rate of 27.5 cents per share. The dividend is payable on June 8, 2007 to shareholders of record at the close of business on May 9, 2007. The increase brings the annualized dividend yield on the Company's common stock to $1.10 per share. A copy of such press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibit to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Sunoco, Inc.
1735 Market Street
Philadelphia, Pa. 19103-7583
 
PHILADELPHIA, Feb. 1, 2007  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) announced today that its Board of Directors has approved a 10 percent increase to the quarterly dividend to 27.5 cents per share. The quarterly dividend is payable on June 8, 2007 to shareholders of record at the close of business on May 9, 2007. The increase brings the annualized dividend rate on the Company's common stock to $1.10 per share.
"We continue to view returning cash to our shareholders as an integral part of our strategy and are pleased to make this announcement," said Sunoco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John G. Drosdick. "Our results, our business outlook and our strong financial condition provide us with the ability and confidence to take this action.
"Over the past three years, we have significantly increased our dividend while reducing shares outstanding. As we move forward, we remain committed to considering opportunities to grow the Company while returning cash to our shareholders and maintaining a strong balance sheet."
Sunoco, Inc. headquartered in Philadelphia, PA, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of petroleum and petrochemical products. With 900,000 barrels per day of refining capacity, nearly 4,700 retail sites selling gasoline and convenience items, approximately 5,500 miles of crude oil and refined product owned and operated pipelines and 38 product terminals, Sunoco is one of the largest independent refiner-marketers in the United States. Sunoco is a significant manufacturer of petrochemicals with annual sales of approximately five billion pounds, largely chemical intermediates used to make fibers, plastics, film and resins. Utilizing a unique, patented technology, Sunoco also has the capacity to manufacture over 2.5 million tons annually of high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for use in the steel industry. For additional information, visit Sunoco's Web site at
www.SunocoInc.com.


