FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20070503125820.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
The press release announcing the financial results for the Company's 2007 first quarter is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and 7.01 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
On May 2, 2007, Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's 2007 first quarter. Additional information concerning the Company's first quarter earnings, presented to investors in a teleconference call on May 3, 2007, is contained in a copy of the slide presentation attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Sunoco, Inc.
1735 Market Street
Philadelphia, Pa. 19103-7583
 
PHILADELPHIA, May 2, 2007  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) today reported net income of $175 million ($1.44 per share diluted) for the first quarter of 2007 versus $79 million ($0.59 per share diluted) for the first quarter of 2006. Excluding special items, income was $85 million ($0.70 per share diluted) for the current quarter. There were no special items in the first quarter of 2006.
"While refining margins and operating income were improved versus last year's comparable period, our results were significantly limited by the major turnaround and expansion work at our Philadelphia refinery," said John G. Drosdick, Sunoco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "This $520 million project reduced first-quarter refinery production by approximately nine million barrels and also contributed to higher average crude oil costs and the sale of low-valued residual fuel inventory. The timing of this downtime and its associated impacts occurred during the part of the quarter when margins in the Northeast were at their highest levels. Also in the Northeast, a loss of steam from a power outage at a third-party supplier resulted in an unplanned shutdown of the Marcus Hook refinery in February that reduced throughput by an additional one million barrels.
"With the recent completion of the Philadelphia turnaround and fluid catalytic cracking unit expansion project," continued Drosdick, "our Northeast refining system is now returning to normal operations as we enter the summer driving season. In addition to the expansion of the catalytic cracking unit's capacity from 70 to 85 thousand barrels per day, we expect the project will provide us with the ability to upgrade an additional 15-20 thousand barrels per day of low-value residual fuel oil into higher-value gasoline and distillate products and demonstrate the increased earnings power of these assets."
 
SUNOCO 1Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 2
 
Commenting on other 2007 capital projects in Refining and Supply, Drosdick said, "Final tie-in work for the crude unit debottleneck project at our Toledo refinery is scheduled to begin in May with completion anticipated by the end of the quarter. We estimate that the work will result in only a minimal reduction in crude throughput during the quarter. In addition, our Tulsa refinery is currently scheduled to undergo a maintenance turnaround beginning in June, which is expected to reduce second quarter production at the facility by approximately 2.4 million barrels. Following the completion of this work, we have no major turnaround activity scheduled for the remainder of the year, providing the opportunity to capture what we believe will continue to be a constructive market for refined product margins."
DETAILS OF FIRST QUARTER RESULTS
REFINING AND SUPPLY
Refining and Supply earned $76 million in the first quarter of 2007 versus $73 million in the first quarter of 2006. The increase in earnings was due to higher realized margins, particularly in the MidContinent, essentially offset by lower production volumes and higher expenses. The lower volumes were mainly the result of work related to the project to expand capacity of a fluid catalytic cracking unit at the Philadelphia refinery as well as a one-week outage at the Tulsa refinery and unscheduled downtime at the Marcus Hook refinery due to a power outage at a third-party steam supplier. The completion of the work at the Philadelphia refinery is expected to reduce April production by approximately two million barrels. The higher expenses were largely the result of costs associated with the turnaround and expansion work and operating costs to produce low-sulfur fuels.
RETAIL MARKETING
Retail Marketing earned $7 million in the first quarter of 2007 versus break-even results in the first quarter of 2006. The increase in earnings was primarily due to higher average retail gasoline and distillate margins. Partially offsetting these positive factors were a $3 million after-tax charge associated with a litigation settlement and a $4 million after-tax decrease in divestment gains attributable to the Retail Portfolio Management program. Monthly gasoline and diesel throughput per company-owned or leased outlet increased approximately eight percent versus the first quarter of 2006.
CHEMICALS
Chemicals earned $9 million in the first quarter of 2007 versus $14 million in the prior-year period. The decrease in earnings was due primarily to lower margins and sales volumes for both phenol and polypropylene, partially offset by lower expenses. Lower volumes resulted in part from feedstock availability issues related to the turnaround work at Sunoco's Philadelphia refinery and the power outage at a third-party steam supplier for Sunoco's Marcus Hook refinery during the quarter.
 
SUNOCO 1Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 3
 
LOGISTICS
Earnings for the Logistics segment were $9 million in the first quarter of 2007 versus $6 million in the first quarter of 2006. The increase was largely due to higher earnings from terminalling operations and from the Partnership's acquisitions completed in 2006, partially offset by lower crude oil acquisition and marketing results and Sunoco's reduced ownership in the Partnership subsequent to a public equity offering in the second quarter of 2006.
COKE
The Coke business earned $11 million in the first quarter of 2007 versus $14 million in the first quarter of 2006. The decrease in earnings was due primarily to higher costs and lower selling prices at the Jewell coal operations. In the first quarter of 2007, limited operations commenced at a 1.7 million tons-per-year cokemaking facility in Vitria, Brazil, with full production expected in mid-2007. The Coke business is the operator and has a one-percent ownership interest in this joint venture.
CORPORATE AND OTHER
Corporate administrative expenses were $15 million after tax in the first quarter of 2007 versus $16 million in the first quarter of 2006.
Net financing expenses were $12 million after tax in both first-quarter periods. Lower interest income and higher interest expense were offset by higher capitalized interest and lower expenses attributable to the preferential return of third-party investors in Sunoco's cokemaking operations.
SPECIAL ITEM
During the first quarter of 2007, Sunoco recognized a $90 million after-tax gain related to the prior issuance of limited partnership units of Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. (NYSE: SXL) to the public. Sunoco currently has a 43 percent interest in Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P., which includes its 2 percent general partnership interest.
Sunoco, Inc., headquartered in Philadelphia, PA, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of petroleum and petrochemical products. With 900,000 barrels per day of refining capacity, nearly 4,700 retail sites selling gasoline and convenience items, approximately 5,500 miles of crude oil and refined product owned and operated pipelines and 38 product terminals, Sunoco is one of the largest independent refiner-marketers in the United States. Sunoco is a significant manufacturer of petrochemicals with annual sales of approximately five billion pounds, largely chemical intermediates used to make fibers, plastics, film and resins. Utilizing a unique, patented technology, Sunoco's cokemaking facilities in the United States also have the capacity to manufacture over 2.5 million tons annually of high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for use in the steel industry.
 
SUNOCO 1Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 4
 
Anyone interested in obtaining further insights into the first quarter's results can monitor the Company's quarterly teleconference call, which is scheduled for 3:00 p.m. ET on May 3, 2007. It can be accessed through Sunoco's Web site - www.SunocoInc.com. It is suggested that you visit the site prior to the teleconference to ensure that you have downloaded any necessary software.
Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although Sunoco believes that the assumptions underlying these statements are reasonable, investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and necessarily involve risks that may affect Sunoco's business prospects and performance, causing actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the foregoing release. Such risks and uncertainties include, by way of example and not of limitation: general economic, financial and business conditions which could affect Sunoco's financial condition and results of operations; changes in competition and competitive practices, including the impact of foreign imports; effects of weather conditions and natural disasters on the Company's operating facilities and on product supply and demand; changes in refining, marketing and chemical margins; variation in petroleum-based commodity prices and availability of crude oil and feedstock supply or transportation; effects of transportation disruptions; changes in the price differentials between light-sweet and heavy-sour crude oils; changes in the marketplace which may affect supply and demand for Sunoco's products; changes in the level of capital expenditures or operating expenses; changes in product specifications; availability and pricing of ethanol; changes in the expected level of environmental capital, operating or remediation expenditures; age of, and changes in, the reliability, efficiency and capacity of, the Company's operating facilities or those of third parties; effects of adverse events relating to the operation of the Company's facilities and to the transportation and storage of hazardous materials (including equipment malfunction, explosions, fires, spills, and the effects of severe weather conditions); risks related to labor relations and workplace safety; changes in, or new, statutes and government regulations or their interpretations, including those relating to the environment and global warming; changes in tax laws or their interpretations, including pension funding requirements; ability to identify acquisitions, execute them under favorable terms and integrate them into the Company's existing businesses; ability to enter into joint ventures and other similar arrangements under favorable terms; delays and/or costs related to construction, improvements and/or repairs of facilities (including shortages of skilled labor, the issuance of applicable permits and inflation); nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, major customers, suppliers, dealers, distributors or other business partners; changes in financial markets impacting pension expense and funding requirements; political and economic conditions in the markets in which the Company, its suppliers or customers operate, including the impact of potential terrorist acts and international hostilities; military conflicts between, or internal instability in, one or more oil producing countries, governmental actions and other disruptions in the ability to obtain crude oil; and changes in the status
 
SUNOCO 1Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 5
 
of, or initiation of new, litigation, arbitration or other proceedings to which the Company is a party or liability resulting from such litigation, arbitration or other proceedings, including natural resource damage claims. These and other applicable risks and uncertainties have been described more fully in Sunoco's 2006 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 2007 and in other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Sunoco undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this release, whether as a result of new information or future events.
 
SUNOCO 1Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 6
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 7
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 8
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 9
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 10
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 11
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 12
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 13
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 14
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 15
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 16
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 17
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 18
 
 



