FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20070116153609.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1 - REGISTRANT'S BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS
Item 1.01.
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On January 11, 2007, Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") announced that the total aggregate funding commitment from the lending banks under the company's competitive advance and revolving credit facility agreement (the "Credit Agreement") had been increased by an additional $400 million to a total of $1.3 billion. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. is the Administrative Agent and Bank of America, N.A. is the Syndication Agent for the Credit Agreement.
A copy of the news release announcing the increase is being filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
The foregoing brief description of the change in the Company's Credit Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Accession Agreement, dated as of January 11, 2007, by and among the Company, those financial institutions executing such agreement as Increasing Lenders, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (the "Accession Agreement"). A copy of the Accession Agreement will be filed with the SEC as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006. A copy of the Credit Agreement was filed with the SEC as Exhibit 10.1 to Sunoco's quarterly report on Form 10-Q, for the second quarter of 2006, filed August 3, 2006.
Item 9.01. .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Sunoco, Inc.
1735 Market Street, STE LL
Philadelphia, Pa. 19103-7583
 
PHILADELPHIA, January 11, 2007 - Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) announced that effective today, it has increased the size of its Competitive Advance and Revolving Facility, which expires in August 2011, by an additional $400 million to a total of $ 1.3 billion. JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. is the Administrative Agent and Bank of America, N.A. is the Syndication Agent for the facility.
Sunoco, Inc., headquartered in Philadelphia, PA, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of petroleum and petrochemical products. With 900,000 barrels per day of refining capacity, nearly 4,700 retail sites selling gasoline and convenience items, approximately 5,400 miles of crude oil and refined product owned and operated pipelines and 38 product terminals, Sunoco is one of the largest independent refiner-marketers in the United States. Sunoco is a significant manufacturer of petrochemicals with annual sales of approximately five billion pounds, largely chemical intermediates used to make fibers, plastics, film and resins. Utilizing a unique, patented technology, Sunoco has the capacity to manufacture over 2.5 million tons annually of high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for use in the steel industry. For additional information, visit Sunoco's website at .
http://www.SunocoInc.com
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995:
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Sunoco believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions. No assurance, however, can be given that its goals will be achieved. A number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from the projections, anticipated results, or other expectations expressed in this release. While Sunoco makes these forward-looking statements in good faith, Sunoco cannot guarantee that the anticipated future results will be achieved. Risks and uncertainties concerning Sunoco's business are more fully described in Sunoco's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 2, 2006. Sunoco undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this news release, whether as a result of new information or future events.


