FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20070802131926.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
The press release announcing the financial results for the Company's 2007 second quarter is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and 7.01 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
On August 1, 2007, Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's 2007 second quarter. Additional information concerning the Company's second quarter earnings, presented to investors in a teleconference call on August 2, 2007, is contained in a copy of the slide presentation attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Sunoco, Inc.
1735 Market Street
Philadelphia, Pa. 19103-7583
 
PHILADELPHIA, August 1, 2007  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) today reported net income of $509 million ($4.20 per share diluted) for the second quarter of 2007 versus $426 million ($3.22 per share diluted) for the second quarter of 2006. For the first half of 2007, Sunoco reported net income of $684 million ($5.63 per share diluted) versus $505 million ($3.80 per share diluted) in the first half of 2006. Excluding special items, 2007 first half income was $594 million ($4.89 per share diluted). There were no special items in the second quarter of 2007 or the first half of 2006.
"The record quarterly result was largely driven by earnings of $482 million in Refining and Supply," said John G. Drosdick, Sunoco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Lower-than-normal refined product inventories and continued healthy demand led to very strong realized margins in both the Northeast and MidContinent systems. Non-refining business unit earnings totaled $59 million in the second quarter, with the largest contribution coming from Retail Marketing as retail gasoline margins improved in the latter half of the quarter."
Commenting on the progress of the Refining and Supply capital program in the first half, Drosdick said, "After completing project work, the newly-expanded and modified Philadelphia fluid catalytic cracking unit was restarted in mid-April and contributed approximately $15 million of additional net income during the May/June trial and phase-in period. In the MidContinent system, final tie-in work on the Toledo refinery crude unit debottleneck project was completed in early July while the Tulsa refinery also returned to full operation after being down in June for planned maintenance.
 
SUNOCO 2Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 2
"The completion of these major capital projects has significantly enhanced the earnings power of our refining assets. We are currently operating at full production levels and have no further significant maintenance activity planned for the remainder of the year.
"We also continued to execute our long-standing share reduction program in the second quarter, repurchasing 1.2 million shares for approximately $100 million. In the last twelve months, Sunoco has reduced its net shares outstanding by 8 percent. The remaining share repurchase authorization is currently $849 million and we continue to view this as an integral part of our strategy to enhance shareholder value."
DETAILS OF SECOND QUARTER RESULTS
REFINING AND SUPPLY
Refining and Supply earned $482 million in the second quarter of 2007 versus $409 million in the second quarter of 2006. The increase in earnings was due to higher realized margins, particularly in the MidContinent, partially offset by lower production volumes and higher expenses. The lower volumes were mainly the result of work early in the quarter to complete the expansion and modification of a fluid catalytic cracking unit at the Philadelphia refinery as well as turnaround work at the Tulsa refinery in June. The work at the Philadelphia refinery reduced second quarter 2007 production by approximately 1.5 million barrels, while the turnaround at the Tulsa refinery negatively impacted second quarter production by approximately 2.3 million barrels. The higher expenses were largely the result of costs associated with the turnaround and expansion work and increased operating costs to produce low-sulfur fuels.
RETAIL MARKETING
Retail Marketing earned $30 million in the second quarter of 2007 versus $10 million in the second quarter of 2006. The increase in earnings was primarily due to higher average retail gasoline margins and $12 million of after-tax divestment gains attributable to the Retail Portfolio Management program. Monthly gasoline and diesel throughput per company-owned or leased outlet increased approximately six percent versus the second quarter of 2006.
CHEMICALS
Chemicals earned $6 million in the second quarter of 2007 versus $8 million in the prior-year period. Slightly higher margins were offset by higher expenses and the absence of a $4 million deferred tax benefit recognized in the second quarter of 2006 as a result of a state tax law change.
 
SUNOCO 2Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 3
 
LOGISTICS
Earnings for the Logistics segment were $10 million in the second quarter of 2007 versus $12 million in the second quarter of 2006. The decrease was largely due to lower crude oil acquisition and marketing results, partially offset by higher earnings from terminalling operations.
COKE
The Coke business earned $13 million in the second quarter of 2007 versus $10 million in the second quarter of 2006. The increase in earnings was due primarily to higher tax benefits from domestic cokemaking operations. Also contributing to the increase was income from the 1.7 million tons-per-year cokemaking facility in Vitria, Brazil, which commenced start-up of operations in the first quarter of 2007. Full production is expected to occur in the third quarter of 2007.
CORPORATE AND OTHER
Corporate administrative expenses were $18 million after tax in the second quarter of 2007 versus $11 million in the second quarter of 2006. The increase was primarily due to higher expenses for performance-related incentive compensation.
Net financing expenses were $14 million after tax in the second quarter of 2007 versus $12 million after tax in the second quarter of 2006. Lower interest income was partially offset by lower expenses attributable to the preferential return of third-party investors in Sunoco's cokemaking operations.
SIX MONTH RESULTS
Sunoco earned $684 million, or $5.63 per share of common stock on a diluted basis, for the first six months of 2007 versus $505 million, or $3.80 per share, in the comparable 2006 period. The increase was primarily due to higher margins for wholesale fuel and retail gasoline and a gain related to the prior issuance of Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. (NYSE: SXL) limited partnership units. Partially offsetting these positive factors were lower refined product volumes and higher expenses.
SPECIAL ITEM
During the first quarter of 2007, Sunoco recognized a $90 million after-tax gain related to the prior issuance of limited partnership units of Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. to the public. Sunoco currently has a 43 percent interest in Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P., which includes its 2 percent general partnership interest.
 
SUNOCO 2Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 4
 
Sunoco, Inc., headquartered in Philadelphia, PA, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of petroleum and petrochemical products. With 900,000 barrels per day of refining capacity, nearly 4,700 retail sites selling gasoline and convenience items, approximately 5,500 miles of crude oil and refined product owned and operated pipelines and 38 product terminals, Sunoco is one of the largest independent refiner-marketers in the United States. Sunoco is a significant manufacturer of petrochemicals with annual sales of approximately five billion pounds, largely chemical intermediates used to make fibers, plastics, film and resins. Utilizing a unique, patented technology, Sunoco's cokemaking facilities in the United States also have the capacity to manufacture over 2.5 million tons annually of high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for use in the steel industry.
Anyone interested in obtaining further insights into the second quarter's results can monitor the Company's quarterly teleconference call, which is scheduled for 3:00 p.m. ET on August 2, 2007. It can be accessed through Sunoco's Web sitewww.SunocoInc.com. It is suggested that you visit the site prior to the teleconference to ensure that you have downloaded any necessary software.
Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although Sunoco believes that the assumptions underlying these statements are reasonable, investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and necessarily involve risks that may affect Sunoco's business prospects and performance, causing actual results to differ materially from those discussed in this release. Such risks and uncertainties include, by way of example and not of limitation: general economic, financial and business conditions which could affect Sunoco's financial condition and results of operations; changes in competition and competitive practices, including the impact of foreign imports; effects of weather conditions and natural disasters on the Company's operating facilities and on product supply and demand; changes in refining, marketing and chemical margins; variation in petroleum-based commodity prices and availability of crude oil and feedstock supply or transportation; effects of transportation disruptions; changes in the price differentials between light-sweet and heavy-sour crude oils; changes in the marketplace which may affect supply and demand for Sunoco's products; changes in the level of capital expenditures or operating expenses; changes in product specifications; availability and pricing of ethanol; changes in the expected level of environmental capital, operating or remediation expenditures; age of, and changes in the reliability, efficiency and capacity of, the Company's operating facilities or those of third parties; effects of adverse events relating to the operation of the Company's facilities and to the transportation and storage of hazardous materials (including equipment malfunction, explosions, fires, spills, and the effects of severe weather conditions); risks related to labor relations and workplace safety; changes in, or new, statutes and government regulations or their interpretations, including those relating to the environment and global warming; changes in tax laws or their interpretations, including pension funding requirements; ability to
 
SUNOCO 2Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 5
 
identify acquisitions, execute them under favorable terms and integrate them into the Company's existing businesses; ability to enter into joint ventures and other similar arrangements under favorable terms; delays and/or costs related to construction, improvements and/or repairs of facilities (including shortages of skilled labor, the issuance of applicable permits and inflation); nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, major customers, suppliers, dealers, distributors or other business partners; changes in financial markets impacting pension expense and funding requirements; political and economic conditions in the markets in which the Company, its suppliers or customers operate, including the impact of potential terrorist acts and international hostilities; military conflicts between, or internal instability in, one or more oil producing countries, governmental actions and other disruptions in the ability to obtain crude oil; and changes in the status of, or initiation of new, litigation, arbitration or other proceedings to which the Company is a party or liability resulting from such litigation, arbitration or other proceedings, including natural resource damage claims. These and other applicable risks and uncertainties have been described more fully in Sunoco's First Quarter 2007 Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 3, 2007 and in other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Sunoco undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this release, whether as a result of new information or future events.
 
SUNOCO 2Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 6
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 7
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 8
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 9
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 11
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 12
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 13
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 14
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 15
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 16
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 17
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 18
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 19
 
 



