FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20070201131925.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
The press release announcing the financial results for the Company's 2006 fourth quarter is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and 7.01 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
On January 31, 2007, Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's 2006 fourth quarter. Additional information concerning the Company's fourth quarter earnings, presented to investors in a teleconference call on February 1, 2007, is contained in a copy of the slide presentation attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Sunoco, Inc.
1735 Market Street
Philadelphia, Pa. 19103-7583
 
PHILADELPHIA, January 31, 2007  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) today reported net income of $123 million ($1.00 per share diluted) for the fourth quarter of 2006 versus $287 million ($2.12 per share diluted) for the fourth quarter of 2005. Excluding special items, income was $297 million ($2.19 per share diluted) for the fourth quarter of 2005. There were no special items in the current fourth-quarter period.
For the full-year 2006, Sunoco reported net income of $979 million ($7.59 per share diluted) versus $974 million ($7.08 per share diluted) for the full-year 2005. Excluding special items, Sunoco's income for 2005 was $1,012 million ($7.36 per share diluted). There were no special items in the 2006 full-year period.
"2006 was another very strong year for Sunoco," said John G. Drosdick, Sunoco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Despite significant volatility in refined product markets and some maintenance downtime in our Refining system, our earnings per share were the highest in the Company's history and we generated a return on capital employed in excess of 28 percent.
"We earned $881 million in Refining and Supply and $205 million in our four non-refining businesses. With the introduction of ethanol-blended gasoline to much of our Northeast market and the shift to both low-sulfur gasoline and ultra-low-sulfur diesel fuel across the country, the year was one of significant transition for the industry. Our entire organization worked hard to ensure we remained a reliable supplier of quality transportation fuels in the markets we serve."
Commenting on the fourth quarter, Drosdick said, "Our Refining and Supply business earned $126 million as seasonal declines in gasoline margins and an unseasonably warm start to the winter heating oil season reduced realized refining margins from second and third quarter levels. In addition, scheduled and unscheduled maintenance activity reduced production available for sale by about five million barrels during the quarter.
 
"Retail Marketing had a loss of $11 million in the fourth quarter as retail gasoline prices declined and squeezed margins significantly versus record third-quarter levels. The Chemicals business rebounded from the third quarter to earn $16 million in the fourth quarter as lower average crude prices led to lower feedstock prices and expanded margins in both our polypropylene and phenol businesses.
"During the quarter, we continued to execute our ongoing share reduction program, repurchasing 2.1 million shares at a total cost of $137 million. As of December 31, we had 121.3 million shares outstanding, an 11.8 million reduction (9 percent) from the beginning of the year."
Commenting on 2007, Drosdick said, "Our two main capital projects in our Refining and Supply business remain on track for completion in the first half of the year. In February, our Philadelphia refinery will begin a scheduled two-month turnaround, during which the final tie-in work for our fluid catalytic cracking unit expansion and residual fuel upgrading project will be completed. We estimate the work will reduce production in our Northeast system by approximately eight million barrels in the first quarter. In addition, we expect to complete the Toledo crude debottleneck project in the second quarter. Both projects have largely completed construction and pre-turnaround work.
Drosdick continued, "The Company expects to complete the $40 million Toledo project at or near the budgeted level, while total capital for the Philadelphia project is now estimated at $500 million, up $100 million from prior estimates. The increased costs reflect more current cost estimates and the impact of some material delivery delays and related productivity issues. Despite the higher costs, these projects represent valuable upgrades to our refining system and should provide attractive returns on our investments. We expect to maintain overall capital spending for Refining and Supply at approximately $800 million for 2007 by deferring or eliminating discretionary projects."
DETAILS OF FOURTH QUARTER RESULTS
REFINING AND SUPPLY
Refining and Supply earned $126 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 versus $286 million in the post-hurricane-impacted fourth quarter of 2005. The decrease was primarily due to lower realized margins and production across Sunoco's refining system, partially offset by a $16 million after-tax benefit attributable to LIFO inventory profits. In the Northeast, margins declined $2.95 per barrel, primarily attributable to wholesale gasoline. In the MidContinent, a $.93 per barrel decline due to much lower margins for diesel fuel was only partially offset by higher petrochemical and lubricants margins.
Total crude unit throughput averaged 813.7 thousand barrels daily (90 percent utilization) for the current quarter, with total production available for sale approximating 81 million barrels. A combination of accelerated turnaround work and opportunistic maintenance in our Northeast system early in the quarter was the main reason for the decline in crude throughputs versus last year's fourth quarter. In addition, a power interruption from the local utility resulted in lost production at the Toledo refinery in December.
 
RETAIL MARKETING
Retail Marketing had a loss of $11 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 versus income of $25 million in the fourth quarter of 2005. The decrease was primarily due to much lower retail gasoline margins and a $6 million after-tax charge related to an environmental litigation claim. Monthly gasoline and diesel throughput per company owned or leased outlet was up 14 percent from the fourth quarter of 2005.
CHEMICALS
Chemicals earned $16 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 versus $8 million in the prior-year period. The increase in earnings was due primarily to higher sales volumes and lower operating expenses and purchased fuel costs, partially offset by lower margins.
LOGISTICS
Earnings for the Logistics segment were $11 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 versus $3 million in the prior-year period. The improvement is primarily related to higher earnings from Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. (NYSE: SXL) and the absence of $4 million of after-tax charges recorded in the fourth quarter of 2005 for environmental remediation activities, asset impairments and insurance settlements.
COKE
The Coke business earned $17 million in the fourth quarter of 2006 versus $10 million in the fourth quarter of 2005. The increase was primarily due to tax credits, including a $3 million investment tax credit adjustment relating to the Haverhill facility. As a result of lower crude oil prices, the current quarter results included a $2 million favorable adjustment to the partial phase-out of tax credits accrued earlier in 2006. For the full year, Sun Coke recorded only 65 percent of the benefit of the tax credits that otherwise would have been available without regard to the phase-out associated with high crude oil prices, reducing income by $8 million.
CORPORATE AND OTHER
Corporate administrative expenses were $20 million after tax in the current quarter versus $27 million in the comparable quarter last year. The decrease was largely due to lower accruals for stock-related incentive compensation. The current quarter results included after-tax expenses of $3 million related to the corporate portion of charges associated with the accelerated recognition of share-based incentive compensation for retirement-eligible employees under SFAS No. 123R.
 
Net financing expenses and other were $16 million after tax in the fourth quarter of 2006 versus $8 million in the fourth quarter of 2005 due primarily to lower interest income, higher long-term debt expenses and a $3 million after-tax loss related to the Company's December 2006 purchase of the Jewell coke partnership minority interest for $155 million.
SPECIAL ITEM
During the fourth quarter of 2005, Sunoco recognized a $10 million after-tax loss associated with an arbitration decision related to a phenol pricing dispute.
TWELVE MONTH RESULTS
Sunoco earned $979 million, or $7.59 per share of common stock on a diluted basis, for the full-year 2006 versus $974 million, or $7.08 per share, for the full-year 2005. The increase was primarily due to higher margins in Sunoco's Refining and Supply and Retail Marketing businesses and the absence of a loss associated with a phenol supply contract dispute. Partially offsetting these positive factors were higher expenses, including fuel charges; lower margins from Sunoco's Chemicals business; and lower production of refined products.
Sunoco, Inc., headquartered in Philadelphia, PA, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of petroleum and petrochemical products. With 900,000 barrels per day of refining capacity, nearly 4,700 retail sites selling gasoline and convenience items, approximately 5,500 miles of crude oil and refined product owned and operated pipelines and 38 product terminals, Sunoco is one of the largest independent refiner-marketers in the United States. Sunoco is a significant manufacturer of petrochemicals with annual sales of approximately five billion pounds, largely chemical intermediates used to make fibers, plastics, film and resins. Utilizing a unique, patented technology, Sunoco also has the capacity to manufacture over 2.5 million tons annually of high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for use in the steel industry.
Anyone interested in obtaining further insights into the fourth quarter's results can monitor the Company's quarterly teleconference call, which is scheduled for 3:00 p.m. ET on February 1, 2007. It can be accessed through Sunoco's Web sitewww.SunocoInc.com. It is suggested that you visit the site prior to the teleconference to ensure that you have downloaded any necessary software.
Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although Sunoco believes that the assumptions underlying these statements are reasonable, investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and necessarily involve risks that may affect Sunoco's business prospects and performance, causing actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the
 
foregoing release. Such risks and uncertainties include, by way of example and not of limitation: general economic, financial and business conditions which could affect Sunoco's financial condition and results of operations; changes in competition and competitive practices, including the impact of foreign imports; effects of weather conditions and natural disasters on the Company's operating facilities and on product supply and demand; changes in refining, marketing and chemical margins; variation in petroleum-based commodity prices and availability of crude oil and feedstock supply or transportation; effects of transportation disruptions; changes in the price differentials between light-sweet and heavy-sour crude oils; changes in the marketplace which may affect supply and demand for Sunoco's products; changes in the level of capital or operating expenses; changes in product specifications; availability and pricing of ethanol; changes in the expected level of environmental capital, operating or remediation expenditures; age of, and changes in, the reliability, efficiency and capacity of, the Company's operating facilities or those of third parties; effects of adverse events relating to the operation of the Company's facilities and to the transportation and storage of hazardous materials (including equipment malfunction, explosions, fires, spills, and the effects of severe weather conditions); risks related to labor relations and workplace safety; changes in applicable statutes and government regulations or their interpretations, including those relating to the environment and global warming; changes in tax laws or their interpretations, including pension funding requirements; ability to identify acquisitions, execute them under favorable terms and integrate them into the Company's existing businesses; ability to enter into joint ventures and other similar arrangements under favorable terms; delays and/or costs related to construction, improvements and/or repairs of facilities (including shortages of skilled labor, the issuance of applicable permits and inflation); nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, major customers, suppliers, dealers, distributors or other business partners; changes in financial markets impacting pension expense and funding requirements; political and economic conditions in the markets in which the Company, its suppliers or customers operate, including the impact of potential terrorist acts and international hostilities; military conflicts between, or internal instability in, one or more oil producing countries, governmental actions and other disruptions in the ability to obtain crude oil; and changes in the status of, or initiation of new, litigation, arbitration or other proceedings to which the Company is a party or liability resulting from such litigation, arbitration or other proceedings, including natural resource damage claims. These and other applicable risks and uncertainties have been described more fully in Sunoco's Third Quarter 2006 Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 2, 2006 and in other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Sunoco undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this release, whether as a result of new information or future events.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



