FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20070705115217.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On July 3, 2007, Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") announced that, effective July 9, 2007, Joel H. Maness will step down as Executive Vice President, Refining & Supply, in order to spend more time with family and pursue other interests. He will continue to be employed by the Company on a part-time basis as Strategic Advisor on refining and supply issues reporting directly to John G. Drosdick, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President.
The Company also announced that Michael J. Hennigan, Senior Vice President, Supply, Trading, Sales and Transportation and Vincent J. Kelley, Senior Vice President, Refining, each of whom currently report to Mr. Maness, now will report directly to Mr. Drosdick.
A copy of the Company's news release, announcing these changes, is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
99.1Sunoco, Inc. Press Release, dated July 3, 2007
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
Jerry Davis (media) 215-977-6298
Tom Harr (investors) 215-977-6764
PHILADELPHIA, July 3, 2007  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) announced today that effective July 9, 2007, Joel H. Maness will be stepping down as Executive Vice President, Refining & Supply. He will continue to be employed by the Company on a part-time basis as Strategic Advisor on refining and supply issues reporting directly to John G. Drosdick, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President. Mr. Maness had expressed his desire to spend more time with his family and on personal interests and this change will enable him to do that.
Mr. Drosdick said, "We have benefited greatly from Joel's leadership and dedication over the past seven years. I am pleased that we have worked out an arrangement that will allow him more personal time while he remains available to us to continue providing his extraordinary industry knowledge and expertise in support of our long-term strategy."
In related actions, Michael J. Hennigan, Senior Vice President, Supply, Trading, Sales and Transportation and Vincent J. Kelley, Senior Vice President, Refining, each of whom currently report to Mr. Maness, will report directly to Mr. Drosdick.
Sunoco, Inc., headquartered in Philadelphia, PA, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of petroleum and petrochemical products. With 900,000 barrels per day of refining capacity, nearly 4,700 retail sites selling gasoline and convenience items, approximately 5,500 miles of crude oil and refined product owned and operated pipelines and 38 product terminals, Sunoco is one of the largest independent refiner-marketers in the United States. Sunoco is a significant manufacturer of petrochemicals with annual sales of approximately five billion pounds, largely chemical intermediates used to make fibers, plastics, film and resins. Utilizing a unique, patented technology, Sunoco also manufactures approximately 3.9 million tons annually of high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for use in the steel industry.


