FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20071101114419.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
The press release announcing the financial results for the Company's 2007 third quarter is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and 7.01 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
On October 31, 2007, Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's 2007 third quarter. Additional information concerning the Company's third quarter earnings, presented to investors in a teleconference call on November 1, 2007, is contained in a copy of the slide presentation attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Sunoco, Inc.
1735 Market Street
Philadelphia, Pa. 19103-7583
 
PHILADELPHIA, October 31, 2007  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) today reported net income of $216 million ($1.81 per share diluted) for the third quarter of 2007 versus $351 million ($2.76 per share diluted) for the third quarter of 2006. For the first nine months of 2007, Sunoco reported net income of $900 million ($7.46 per share diluted) versus $856 million ($6.53 per share diluted) in the first nine months of 2006. Excluding special items, income for the first nine months of 2007 was $810 million ($6.71 per share diluted). There were no special items in the third quarter of 2007 or the first nine months of 2006.
"In a very volatile market for refined product margins, the Company posted solid third quarter results," said John G. Drosdick, Sunoco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Our Refining and Supply business earned $171 million despite lower margins that resulted from the end-of-driving-season decline in gasoline demand and the sharp increase in crude oil prices during the quarter.
"In this environment, the Philadelphia fluid catalytic cracking unit, which was expanded and modified earlier this year, provided valuable flexibility to process more attractively priced crude feedstocks and to upgrade residual fuel into higher-value products. In addition, we completed our planned investment and maintenance work at our Toledo and Tulsa refineries in early July. The completion of the crude unit debottleneck project enabled the Toledo refinery to achieve higher production rates with record levels of jet fuel production despite some unplanned unit outages during the third quarter. In total, we estimate that the Philadelphia and Toledo capital projects contributed over $15 million in additional after-tax income to third quarter results.
 
SUNOCO 3Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 2
 
"Non-refining business unit earnings totaled $65 million in the third quarter," continued Drosdick. "While retail gasoline margins were lower than the levels seen in last year's exceptionally strong third quarter, Sunoco's Retail Marketing business earned $31 million, benefiting from periods of declining wholesale gasoline prices. Chemicals results improved to $13 million due to increased sales volumes and modest margin expansion, while Logistics results increased to $14 million, benefiting from strong operations during the quarter. Coke earnings were $7 million, including a $6 million partial phase out of tax credits because of the high level of crude oil prices during the quarter.
"We also continued to execute our share reduction program, investing $200 million to purchase 2.8 million shares during the third quarter. Year-to-date, we have spent $300 million and reduced net shares outstanding by over three percent. The remaining share repurchase authorization from Sunoco's Board of Directors is currently $649 million."
DETAILS OF THIRD QUARTER RESULTS
REFINING AND SUPPLY
Refining and Supply earned $171 million in the third quarter of 2007 versus $273 million in the third quarter of 2006. The decrease in earnings was due to lower realized margins and higher refinery expenses, partially offset by higher production volumes. A planned maintenance turnaround at the Tulsa refinery that was completed in July reduced production in the third quarter of 2007 by approximately 600 thousand barrels. In the third quarter of 2006, unscheduled maintenance reduced production in the Northeast system by about three million barrels.
RETAIL MARKETING
Retail Marketing earned $31 million in the third quarter of 2007 versus $77 million in the third quarter of 2006. The decrease in earnings was primarily due to lower average retail gasoline margins. Monthly gasoline and diesel throughput per company-owned or leased outlet increased approximately three percent versus the third quarter of 2006.
CHEMICALS
Chemicals earned $13 million in the third quarter of 2007 versus $5 million in the prior-year period. The increase was primarily due to higher margins and sales volumes as market conditions improved modestly during the quarter.
LOGISTICS
Earnings for the Logistics segment were $14 million in the third quarter of 2007 versus $7 million in the third quarter of 2006. The increase was largely due to higher crude oil acquisition and marketing results and higher earnings from terminalling operations.
 
SUNOCO 3Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 3
 
COKE
The Coke business earned $7 million in the third quarter of 2007 versus $9 million in the third quarter of 2006. The decrease in earnings was primarily due to lower tax benefits from cokemaking operations. Partially offsetting this decline was income from the 1.7 million tons-per-year cokemaking facility in Vitria, Brazil, which commenced start-up of operations in the first quarter of 2007.
CORPORATE AND OTHER
Corporate administrative expenses were $11 million after tax in both third-quarter periods.
Net financing expenses were $9 million after tax in both third-quarter periods. Lower interest income, higher interest expense and the absence of a gain attributable to income tax matters were essentially offset by lower expenses attributable to the preferential return of third-party investors in Sunoco's cokemaking operations.
NINE MONTH RESULTS
Sunoco earned $900 million, or $7.46 per share of common stock on a diluted basis, for the first nine months of 2007 versus $856 million, or $6.53 per share, in the comparable 2006 period. The increase was primarily due to a gain related to the prior issuance of Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. (NYSE: SXL) limited partnership units, higher margins in Sunoco's Refining and Supply and Chemicals businesses, higher gains on retail asset divestments and a lower effective tax rate. Partially offsetting these positive factors were higher expenses, lower production of refined products and lower margins in Sunoco's Retail Marketing business.
SPECIAL ITEM
During the first quarter of 2007, Sunoco recognized a $90 million after-tax gain related to the prior issuance of limited partnership units of Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. to the public. Sunoco currently has a 43 percent interest in Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P., which includes its two percent general partnership interest.
Sunoco, Inc., headquartered in Philadelphia, PA, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of petroleum and petrochemical products. With 910 thousand barrels per day of refining capacity, nearly 4,700 retail sites selling gasoline and convenience items, approximately 5,500 miles of crude oil and refined product owned and operated pipelines and 38 product terminals, Sunoco is one of the largest independent refiner-marketers in the United States. Sunoco is a significant manufacturer of petrochemicals with annual sales of approximately five billion pounds, largely chemical intermediates used to make fibers, plastics, film and resins. Utilizing a unique, patented technology, Sunoco's cokemaking facilities in the United States have the capacity to manufacture over 2.5 million tons
 
SUNOCO 3Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 4
 
annually of high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for use in the steel industry. Sunoco also is the operator of a 1.7 million tons-per-year cokemaking facility in Vitria, Brazil where Sunoco has a one percent minority interest.
Anyone interested in obtaining further insights into the third quarter's results can monitor the Company's quarterly teleconference call, which is scheduled for 3:00 p.m. ET on November 1, 2007. It can be accessed through Sunoco's Web sitewww.SunocoInc.com. It is suggested that you visit the site prior to the teleconference to ensure that you have downloaded any necessary software.
Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although Sunoco believes that the assumptions underlying these statements are reasonable, investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and necessarily involve risks that may affect Sunoco's business prospects and performance, causing actual results to differ materially from those discussed in this release. Such risks and uncertainties include, by way of example and not of limitation: general economic, financial and business conditions which could affect Sunoco's financial condition and results of operations; changes in competition and competitive practices, including the impact of foreign imports; effects of weather conditions and natural disasters on the Company's operating facilities and on product supply and demand; changes in refining, marketing and chemical margins; variation in petroleum-based commodity prices and availability of crude oil and feedstock supply or transportation; effects of transportation disruptions; changes in the price differentials between light-sweet and heavy-sour crude oils; changes in the marketplace which may affect supply and demand for Sunoco's products; changes in the level of capital expenditures or operating expenses; changes in product specifications; availability and pricing of ethanol; changes in the expected level of environmental capital, operating or remediation expenditures; age of, and changes in the reliability, efficiency and capacity of, the Company's operating facilities or those of third parties; effects of adverse events relating to the operation of the Company's facilities and to the transportation and storage of hazardous materials (including equipment malfunction, explosions, fires, spills, and the effects of severe weather conditions); risks related to labor relations and workplace safety; changes in, or new, statutes and government regulations or their interpretations, including those relating to the environment and global warming; changes in tax laws or their interpretations, including pension funding requirements; ability to identify acquisitions, execute them under favorable terms and integrate them into the Company's existing businesses; ability to enter into joint ventures and other similar arrangements under favorable terms; delays and/or costs related to construction, improvements and/or repairs of facilities (including shortages of skilled labor, the issuance of applicable permits and inflation); nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, major customers, suppliers, dealers, distributors or other business partners; changes in financial markets impacting pension expense and funding requirements; political and economic conditions in the markets in which the Company, its suppliers or customers operate,
 
SUNOCO 3Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 5
 
including the impact of potential terrorist acts and international hostilities; military conflicts between, or internal instability in, one or more oil producing countries, governmental actions and other disruptions in the ability to obtain crude oil; and changes in the status of, or initiation of new, litigation, arbitration or other proceedings to which the Company is a party or liability resulting from such litigation, arbitration or other proceedings, including natural resource damage claims. These and other applicable risks and uncertainties have been described more fully in Sunoco's Second Quarter 2007 Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 2, 2007 and in other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Sunoco undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this release, whether as a result of new information or future events.
 
SUNOCO 3Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 6
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 7
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 8
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 9
 
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 10
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 11
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 12
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 13
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 14
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 15
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 16
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 17
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 18
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q07 EARNINGS, PAGE 19
 
 



