FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20071212073951.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On December 12, 2007, executives of Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") are presenting to certain financial analysts and investors the Company information described in the slides attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1. Exhibit 99.1 is incorporated by reference herein. A webcast of the Company's presentation of these slides is available on the Company's website at www.sunocoinc.com beginning at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time on Wednesday, December 12, 2007.
The information in Item 7.01 of this report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Regulation FD. Accordingly, the information in Item 7.01 of this report will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference. The furnishing of the information in this report is not intended to, and does not, constitute a determination or admission by the Company, that the information in this report is material or complete, or that investors should consider this information before making an investment decision with respect to any security of the Company or any of its affiliates.
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibit to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results and capital spending could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results and capital spending include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 



