FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20081112120537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Sunoco, Inc. ("Sunoco" or the "Company") announced that Terence P. Delaney has been appointed to serve as interim Chief Financial Officer of Sunoco, effective December 1, 2008, upon the retirement of Thomas W. Hofmann. Mr. Delaney will lead Sunoco's financial organization until a permanent successor to Mr. Hofmann is found. Mr. Hofmann announced his retirement in October 2008
.
Mr. Delaney, age 52, has been with Sunoco for 29 years, and has served as Vice President, Investor Relations and Planning, since January 2003. Prior to becoming the Company's primary liaison to shareholders and the investment community, Mr. Delaney held various strategic planning, budgeting, external reporting and auditing positions.
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Delaney's appointment is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
PHILADELPHIA, November 12, 2008  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) announced today that Terence P. Delaney will assume the role of interim Chief Financial Officer effective December 1, 2008 upon the retirement of Thomas W. Hofmann.
A 29-year Sunoco veteran, Mr. Delaney has served as Vice President of Investor Relations and Planning since 2003. Prior to becoming the company's primary liaison to shareholders and the investment community, Mr. Delaney held various strategic planning, budgeting, external reporting and auditing positions. He will lead Sunoco's financial organization until a permanent successor to Mr. Hofmann is found.
Speaking on these personnel changes, Sunoco's Chief Executive Officer and President Lynn Elsenhans said: "I want to thank Terry Delaney for taking on this interim role while we search for a permanent CFO. I also thank Tom Hofmann for his dedicated service to the company over 32 years and the many contributions he made to building Sunoco's positive reputation among investors, industry analysts and business partners. I wish him all the best for the future."
Sunoco, Inc., headquartered in Philadelphia, PA, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of petroleum and petrochemical products. With 910,000 barrels per day of refining capacity, approximately 4,700 retail sites selling gasoline and convenience items, approximately 5,500 miles of crude oil and refined product owned and operated pipelines and 38 product terminals, Sunoco is one of the largest independent refiner-marketers in the United States. Sunoco is a significant manufacturer of petrochemicals with annual sales of approximately five billion pounds, largely chemical intermediates used to make fibers, plastics, film and resins. Utilizing a unique, patented technology, Sunoco's cokemaking facilities in the United States have the capacity to manufacture approximately 3.0 million tons annually of high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for use in the steel industry. Sunoco also is the operator of, and has an equity interest in, a 1.7 million tons-per-year cokemaking facility in Vitria, Brazil.


