FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20080519080733.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On Friday, May 16, 2008, Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") announced that Michael H. R. Dingus will be retiring both as a Senior Vice President of the Company, and as President of its SunCoke Energy, Inc. subsidiary ("SunCoke Energy") and that, effective Friday, May 30, 2008, Michael J. Thomson, a Company Vice President who is currently the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of SunCoke Energy, will succeed Mr. Dingus as Senior Vice President of the Company, and as President of SunCoke Energy.
A copy of the Company's press release, announcing these changes, is attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results, or other expectations, could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results, or other expectations, include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
For further information contact: For release: IMMEDIATELY
Thomas Golembeski (media) 215-977-6298
Tom Harr (investors) 215-977-6764
PHILADELPHIA, May 16, 2008  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) announced today that effective May 30, 2008, Michael H. R. Dingus will retire both as a Senior Vice President of Sunoco, and as President of its SunCoke Energy, Inc. subsidiary. Michael J. Thomson, a Sunoco Vice President who is currently the Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of SunCoke Energy, will succeed Mr. Dingus as Senior Vice President of Sunoco, and as President of SunCoke Energy.
"Mike Dingus' entrepreneurial drive and steady leadership have been invaluable to SunCoke Energy's growth and success," said John G. Drosdick, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Sunoco, Inc. "Under his direction, SunCoke Energy will have grown production capacity from 650,000 tons per year in 1996 to approximately 6 million tons per year once all current and announced projects are complete."
As SunCoke Energy's Chief Operating Officer, Michael Thomson has played a key role in managing the business. "We are confident in Mike Thomson's leadership and deep business knowledge. SunCoke Energy is well positioned for future growth," said Drosdick.
Sunoco, Inc., headquartered in Philadelphia, PA, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of petroleum and petrochemical products. With 910,000 barrels per day of refining capacity, nearly 4,700 retail sites selling gasoline and convenience items, approximately 5,500 miles of crude oil and refined product owned and operated pipelines and 38 product terminals, Sunoco is one of the largest independent refiner-marketers in the United States. Sunoco is a significant manufacturer of petrochemicals with annual sales of approximately five billion
pounds, largely chemical intermediates used to make fibers, plastics, film and resins. Using a unique, patented technology, Sunoco's cokemaking facilities in the United States have the capacity to manufacture over 2.5 million tons annually of high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for use in the steel industry. Sunoco also is the operator of, and has an equity interest in, a 1.7 million tons-per-year cokemaking facility in Vitoria, Brazil.
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Sunoco believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions. No assurance, however, can be given that all of its goals and benchmarks will be achieved. A number of factors could cause actual results or capital outlays to differ materially from the projections, anticipated results, or other expectations expressed in this release. Risks and uncertainties concerning Sunoco's business are more fully described in Sunoco's 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 27, 2008, and in its subsequent Form 10-Q and Form 8-K filings. Sunoco undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this release, whether as a result of new information or future events.


