FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20080716080629.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 16, 2008, Sunoco, Inc. ("Sunoco" or the "Company") announced the retirement of John G. Drosdick as Chief Executive Officer and President, effective August 8, 2008. Mr. Drosdick will continue to serve as non-executive Chairman of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Sunoco until December 31, 2008. The Board of Sunoco approved an arrangement, which is set forth in a letter ("Arrangement Letter") with John G. Drosdick, to compensate him for his role as non-executive Chairman of the Board of Sunoco. Under the terms of the Arrangement Letter, Mr. Drosdick will receive $50,000 per month (pro-rated for August 2008) for his services as Chairman of the Board and as a director, which is in lieu of the cash- and stock-based compensation paid to other non-employee directors. In addition, during the period from August 8, 2008 until December 31, 2008, the Company will provide him with an office and secretarial support. Beginning January 1, 2009, and continuing for three years until December 31, 2011, the Company will provide Mr. Drosdick with suitable office space (leased by Sunoco), furnishings, supplies and secretarial assistance (employed by Sunoco), for an amount not to exceed $75,000 per year, and the amount of which will be imputed as income to him.
A copy of the Arrangement Letter is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Also on July 16, 2008, Sunoco announced the election of Lynn Laverty Elsenhans as Sunoco's Chief Executive Officer and President, and as a member of the Board of Directors, effective August 8, 2008.Biographical information on Ms. Elsenhans is included in the press release and is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02. On July 15, 2008, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Sunoco approved an offer letter ("Offer Letter") with Ms. Elsenhans, in connection with her being elected Chief Executive Officer and President of Sunoco. The terms of the Offer Letter include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A copy of the Offer Letter is attached as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
A copy of the press release announcing the election of Ms. Elsenhans as Chief Executive Officer and President and Mr. Drodick's retirement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
10.1    Arrangement Letter with John G. Drosdick, dated July 15, 2008.
10.2    Offer Letter with Lynn Laverty Elsenhans, dated July 15, 2008.
99.1    Press Release, dated July 16, 2008.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
July 15, 2008
Mr. John G. Drosdick
Sunoco, Inc.
1735 Market Street
Suite LL
Philadelphia, PA 19103
Dear Jack:
At the request of Sunoco, Inc.'s Board of Directors, you agree to serve as non-executive Chairman of the Board from August 8, 2008 until December 31, 2008. The purpose of this letter is to set forth our agreement as to the compensation that Sunoco, Inc. will pay to you for your service as non-executive Chairman of the Board of Sunoco, Inc.
You will continue as a member of our Board of Directors and will serve as the non-executive Chairman of the Board from August 8, 2008 until December 31, 2008. You have tendered your resignation from the positions of non-executive Chairman of the Board and a director, effective as of December 31, 2008, and such resignation will be automatically effective on such date. During the time you serve as non-executive Chairman and a director, we will pay you $50,000 per month (pro rated for August 2008) for such service. This compensation is in lieu of the cash- and stock-based compensation we pay to other non-employee directors.
In addition, during the period from August 8, 2008 until December 31, 2008, we will provide you with an office and secretarial support. That office will be located in the Mellon Bank Center. Beginning on January 1, 2009, and continuing for three years until December 31, 2011, Sunoco will provide you with suitable office space, furnishings, supplies and secretarial assistance. Sunoco, or one of its affiliates, will be the employer of the secretary and will be the lessor under the office lease. We will work with you with respect to selection of the office space. Our obligations under this paragraph will not exceed $75,000 per year. Any income from this arrangement will be imputed to you. You will not be grossed up for any taxes on such imputed income.
July 15, 2008
Page 2
This letter does not impact any benefits or payments you are entitled to receive upon your retirement as an employee of Sunoco, Inc.
Jack, let me add my thanks and gratitude for your loyal and dedicated service to Sunoco, Inc. over the past twelve years. I look forward to continuing to serve with you on the Board of Directors for the remainder of this year.
Please review this letter and, if it is acceptable, please sign and return a counterpart signature page to us. This letter will be effective if signed in counterparts, and delivery of a signature page is effective to bind the parties to this letter. The effective date of this letter is the date hereof.
Sincerely,
/s/ G. J. Ratcliffe
 
G. Jackson Ratcliffe
Chair, Sunoco, Inc. Governance Committee of the Board of Directors
I confirm that the contents of this letter reflect our agreement
/s/ John G. Drosdick
 
Signature

Exhibit 10.2
July 15, 2008
Ms. Lynn Laverty Elsenhans
[Address]
Dear Lynn:
Contained herein are the specifics of an offer to you to join Sunoco, Inc. as its Chief Executive Officer and President and to be elected to its Board of Directors effective August 8, 2008. You are required to complete a physical examination and substance screening as soon as possible prior to your start date or within a reasonable time thereafter. Your examination and screening will be coordinated by Sunoco's Medical Director once we have received your written acceptance of this offer.
Compensation
For 2008, your annual rate of pay, your salary, will be $1,240,000 and your target bonus under the annual Executive Incentive Plan ("EIP") will be 120% of your salary or $1,488,000, for total annualized targeted cash compensation of $2,728,000. The actual annual bonus earned can range from 0% to 200% of target depending on how well the company performs. Since 2008 will be a partial year, any 2008 salary will be that earned based on the portion of the year you actually serve, and your EIP amount also will be pro rated based on the portion of the year you actually serve. The performance metrics for the 2008 EIP include After Tax Operating Income and Return on Capital Employed as compared to the proxy peer companies and Health, Environmental and Safety performance. These performance metrics were established by the Compensation Committee for 2008 and are subject to change in future years at the discretion of the Committee.
July 15, 2008
Page 2
You will receive a one-time grant of restricted share units equal in value to $5,000,000 at the date of grant, which will be August 29, 2008. The number of share units awarded will be determined on the date of grant, by dividing the targeted value by the closing common stock share price on the grant date, subject to rounding down to the nearest whole number of share units. The share units will vest in equal one-third installments, subject to rounding to whole share units, on the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries, respectively, of the grant date. The distributions will be made to you in the form of net common shares after taxes within 30 days after the vesting date. Dividend equivalents accrued up through the vesting date on each installment will be paid in cash net of required taxes. A voluntary termination by you or termination by the company for any reason, other than pursuant to a change in control, will result in the forfeiture of any remaining unvested share units. All long-term incentive awards granted to our executive officers are made under the company's Long-Term Performance Enhancement Plan II ("LTPEP II"), and you will receive a separate award document related to this sign-on equity award at the grant date.
At the December 2008 Compensation Committee meeting, you will receive equity grants equal in value to $6,270,000. The grants will be equally split in value between stock options, calculated under the valuation method used by the company's compensation consultant, and performance Common Stock Units ("CSUs") using the closing common stock share price at the time of grant to value the number of CSUs. The performance CSUs have historically measured the company's performance over the three calendar years following the grant date. The CSU performance metrics are reviewed during the fall Compensation Committee meetings and have generally been approved at the December meeting. For the most recent CSUs granted in December 2007, the performance measures are Total Shareholder Return and Earnings per Share Growth measured against the proxy peer companies. Please note that the performance metrics and mix are reviewed annually by the Compensation Committee, and are subject to change in future years at the discretion of the Committee. The December equity awards will be made under LTPEP II, and you will receive separate award documents.
Election to the Board of Directors
The Sunoco Board of Directors will elect you to serve on the Board effective August 8, 2008. The Board will take future action to elect you as Chair of the Board, effective January 1, 2009, as long as you are Sunoco's Chief Executive Officer at that time.
July 15, 2008
Page 3
Stock Ownership Guidelines
Sunoco executives are subject to stock ownership guidelines that are expected to be met within 5 years. The ownership guidelines, expressed as a multiple of base salary, vary by job level. For the Chief Executive Officer, the guideline is currently six times the annual salary. Restricted share units and CSUs do not count toward these share ownership guidelines until fully vested, and stock options do not count toward these guidelines until exercised, and, in each case, the underlying shares received.
Relocation
Sunoco's relocation policy will be made available to you that includes a home purchase option, temporary living arrangements and reimbursement for all reasonable and customary home purchase costs, moving, storage and other incidental relocation expenses.
Perquisites
Sunoco has eliminated perquisites that do not serve a business purpose. The CEO has only one perquisite  reasonable, limited personal use of the corporate aircraft for safety/security reasons, including the ability to have a spouse and/or family member accompany the CEO on business or personal trips. In accordance with company policy, you will not be grossed up for travel on the company aircraft that has a non-business, personal use. This perquisite is subject to the annual review of perquisites conducted by the Compensation Committee.
Vacation
You will be entitled to 25 days of paid vacation annually. In addition, you will also be allocated two paid floating holidays each year. These floating holidays are in addition to the normal company designated holidays. Since 2008 will be a partial year, your vacation will be pro rated and you will therefore be entitled to 11 paid vacation days for the balance of 2008.
Benefits
Sunoco provides a full range of benefits for most of its salaried employees including comprehensive health plans, disability, life insurance, savings and pension plans. The disability plan requires a mandatory employee contribution of 0.5% of base salary for the first 10 years of employment.
July 15, 2008
Page 4
You will be entitled to and encouraged to have a thorough annual physical examination performed at no cost to you. Memberships in certain, limited clubs used strictly for business purposes will be paid for by the company. Sunoco has a policy of supporting its executives who serve on non-profit organizations through matching contributions subject to certain limitations.
You will participate in the company's non-qualified Supplemental Retirement Pension Plan ("SERP") as well as its qualified cash balance pension plan. The SERP provides for a mid-career 2.25% accrual rate for each year multiplied by your final average pay as defined in the plan. The SERP benefit is reduced by amounts accrued under any other Sunoco pension plans. The Sunoco savings plan, SunCap, matches your contributions up to 5% of your salary. Eligibility for the company match commences after one year of service. Matching amounts in excess of statutory limits will be provided in the company's non-qualified Savings Restoration Plan.
Every executive, including the CEO, is an employee at will. You will be eligible to participate in The Sunoco, Inc. Executive Involuntary Severance Plan, which provides severance payments in the event of an involuntary termination other than for cause, and The Sunoco, Inc. Special Executive Severance Plan, which provides severance benefits to an executive whose employment is involuntarily terminated or who resigns for good reason in connection with or following a change in control.
Sunoco currently provides former employees with post employment medical benefits. To be eligible for subsidized medical benefits under the current plan, you must be at least age 55 years of age and have a minimum of 10 years of service. To participate in the plan without a subsidy, you must be at least age 55 and have a minimum of 5 years of service.
More complete descriptions of Sunoco's plans including the Summary Plan Descriptions and plan documents are available to you. The Board and/or the company does reserve the right to make changes to its employee policies, procedures and plans at any time.
July 15, 2008
Page 5
Please review this offer letter. If you elect to accept our offer, please sign and return to us a counterpart signature page. This offer letter will be effective if signed in counterparts, and delivery of a signature page by facsimile is effective to bind the parties to this offer letter. The effective date of this letter is the date hereof.
We are pleased to make this offer to you and look forward to hearing from you, and to your joining Sunoco.
Sincerely,
 
 
I accept this offer to be Chief Executive Officer and President of Sunoco, Inc.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For further information contact: For release: July 16, 2008 8:00 a.m.
Thomas Golembeski (media) 215-977-6298
Tom Harr (investors) 215-977-6764
PHILADELPHIA, July 16, 2008  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) announced today that its board of directors has elected Lynn Laverty Elsenhans as Chief Executive Officer and President effective August 8, 2008, upon the retirement of John G. Drosdick, current CEO and President. Ms. Elsenhans has also been elected a member of the board of directors of Sunoco.
"It has been a privilege to serve as Sunoco's CEO for the last eight years. I have enjoyed working with the employees, the senior team and the board of directors to build the business and set a clear strategic direction for the company," said Mr. Drosdick. "With that accomplished, it is now the right time to step aside."
To assist in the transition, Mr. Drosdick, who turns 65 next month, will remain as non-executive Chairman of the Board until December 31, 2008.
An experienced oil industry executive, Ms. Elsenhans, 52, joins Sunoco most recently from Shell Downstream, Inc., a subsidiary of Royal Dutch/Shell Group, where she served since 2005 as Executive Vice President of Global Manufacturing. Ms. Elsenhans was responsible for Shell's refining and chemical manufacturing operations, which included 40 plants and more than 17,000 employees. From 2003 to 2005, Ms. Elsenhans served concurrently as President of Shell Oil Company and President and CEO of Shell Oil Products US. She was responsible for the financial and operating performance of the refining and marketing business, and played a coordinating role for all Shell businesses in the United States.
Ms. Elsenhans earned a Bachelor of Arts in Applied Mathematics from Rice University and received a Masters in Business Administration from Harvard Business School. In addition, Ms. Elsenhans serves on the board of directors of International Paper Company, a global paper and packaging company.
"Lynn's record at Shell speaks for itself  she knows the industry intimately and has proven to be a capable manager of a large and complex business," said Mr. Drosdick. "With her qualifications, track record of performance and fresh perspective, Lynn is clearly ready to build on Sunoco's success."
Speaking on behalf of Sunoco's board of directors, presiding Chair of the Governance Committee Jack Ratcliffe said: "For the last year, the board of directors searched for a CEO with excellent credentials and experience to succeed Jack Drosdick. Lynn has the outstanding background in refining, marketing and chemicals to lead Sunoco's traditional business lines, as well as champion the growth of our promising coke and logistics businesses. We are confident that Lynn will further develop the strategy we have followed for the last decade."
Commenting on her new appointment, Ms. Elsenhans said: "Sunoco is a great company with a strong portfolio of diverse businesses. I am honored to join the leadership team of a company known for its proud tradition and dedicated employees."
Sunoco, Inc., headquartered in Philadelphia, PA, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of petroleum and petrochemical products. With 910,000 barrels per day of refining capacity, nearly 4,700 retail sites selling gasoline and convenience items, approximately 5,500 miles of crude oil and refined product owned and operated pipelines and 38 product terminals, Sunoco is one of the largest independent refiner-marketers in the United States. Sunoco is a significant manufacturer of petrochemicals with annual sales of approximately five billion pounds, largely chemical intermediates used to make fibers, plastics, film and resins. Using a unique, patented technology, Sunoco's cokemaking facilities in the United States have the capacity to manufacture over 2.5 million tons annually of high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for use in the steel industry. Sunoco also is the operator of, and has an equity interest in, a 1.7 million tons-per-year cokemaking facility in Vitoria, Brazil.


