FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20081106132839.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The press release announcing the financial results for the Company's 2008 third quarter is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and 7.01 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
On November 5, 2008, Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's 2008 third quarter. Additional information concerning the Company's third quarter earnings, presented to investors in a teleconference call on November 6, 2008, is contained in a copy of the slide presentation attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Sunoco, Inc.
1735 Market Street
Philadelphia, Pa. 19103-7583
 
PHILADELPHIA, November 5, 2008  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) today reported net income of $549 million ($4.70 per share diluted) for the third quarter of 2008 versus $216 million ($1.81 per share diluted) for the third quarter of 2007. Excluding special items, Sunoco had income for the 2008 third quarter of $559 million ($4.78 per share diluted). There were no special items in the third quarter of 2007.
For the first nine months of 2008, Sunoco reported net income of $572 million ($4.88 per share diluted) versus $900 million ($7.46 per share diluted) in the first nine months of 2007. Excluding special items, income in the first nine months of 2008 was $561 million ($4.79 per share diluted) versus $810 million ($6.71 per share diluted) in the first nine months of 2007.
"After an extremely challenging market environment in the first half of 2008, very strong margins in our Refining and Supply and Retail Marketing businesses led to a record result in the third quarter," said Lynn Elsenhans, Sunoco's Chief Executive Officer and President. "Refining and Supply earned $424 million as falling crude oil prices and reduced industry production related to the Gulf Coast hurricane activity led to significantly improved margins. In addition, optimization actions during the quarter greatly enhanced our capture of available market opportunities. We reduced the amount of Nigerian-sourced crude oil run at our refineries by more than 200,000 barrels per day versus historical levels during a period when premiums for Nigerian grades remained high. At the same time, we continued to optimize our product yields to maximize distillate production early in the quarter when gasoline margins were weak and then increased gasoline production during September as market demand for gasoline increased.
 
SUNOCO 3Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 2
 
"Demonstrating the diversity of our earnings base, Sunoco's non-refining businesses earned $140 million during the third quarter, their highest quarterly contribution ever. Retail Marketing earned $72 million despite lower year-over-year sales volumes as falling wholesale gasoline prices through most of the quarter led to expanded retail margins. Chemicals also benefited from falling feedstock costs to earn $19 million despite some hurricane-related downtime at our Houston-area facilities in September. Some assets in our Logistics business were also impacted by the September hurricanes but otherwise continued strong performance from Sunoco Logistics Partners LP (NYSE: SXL) contributed to earnings of $20 million for this business. Finally, Coke earned a record $29 million, reflecting a partial contribution from our second cokemaking facility in Haverhill, Ohio which began operations during the quarter. With an increased contribution from these assets and the benefit of higher coal prices in the fourth quarter, we continue to expect the Coke business to earn approximately $110-$115 million for the full-year 2008."
Commenting on the Company's strategic outlook, Elsenhans said, "While falling wholesale gasoline prices kept retail margins strong in October, Gulf Coast refining supply is largely back on line following the hurricanes and the slowing economy will likely continue to suppress demand for refined products as we enter 2009. More than ever, this market environment requires our continued focus to maintain financial discipline. As of September 30, our net-debt-to-capital ratio was 30 percent as defined by the covenant in our revolving credit agreement. We had $327 million of cash on the balance sheet and $1.8 billion of available liquidity, including funds available to SXL. In addition, we have decided not to proceed with the previously announced capital improvement project to upgrade the Tulsa refinery, which will reduce planned spending by approximately $375 million. Sunoco continues to pursue the potential sale of the facility and re-evaluate our entire portfolio of assets to be responsive to changing global market conditions and achieve enhanced shareholder value. Further updates on each of these matters as well as additional detail on our 2009 capital program will be discussed at a meeting for securities analysts and investors to be held on December 15, 2008."
DETAILS OF THIRD QUARTER RESULTS
REFINING AND SUPPLY
Refining and Supply earned $424 million in the third quarter of 2008 versus $171 million in the third quarter of 2007. The increase in earnings was primarily due to higher realized margins, partially offset by higher expenses and lower production volumes. The higher margins primarily resulted from tighter product markets following storms in the U.S. Gulf Coast region.
RETAIL MARKETING
Retail Marketing earned $72 million in the third quarter of 2008 versus $31 million in the third quarter of 2007. The increase in earnings was primarily due to higher average retail gasoline and distillate margins, partially offset by lower retail gasoline sales volumes and lower divestment gains. Results for the quarter included a $5 million after-tax charge related to asset impairment losses and associated
 
SUNOCO 3Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 3
 
costs in conjunction with the Company's Retail Portfolio Management (RPM) program. The Company anticipates that the future gains to be recognized from the divestment of sites under the RPM program will exceed the impairment losses and associated costs recognized during the quarter.
CHEMICALS
Chemicals earned $19 million in the third quarter of 2008 versus $13 million in the prior-year period. The increase in earnings was due primarily to higher margins, partially offset by lower sales volumes.
LOGISTICS
Earnings for the Logistics segment were $20 million in the third quarter of 2008 versus $14 million in the third quarter of 2007. The increase was due to continued improved results from SXL which benefited from increased pipeline fees and higher lease acquisition margins in its western pipeline system as well as higher earnings from the eastern pipeline system and terminalling operations.
COKE
The Coke business earned $29 million in the third quarter of 2008 versus $7 million in the third quarter of 2007. The increase in earnings was due primarily to increased price realizations from coal and coke production and higher coke sales volumes at Jewell.
CORPORATE AND OTHER
Corporate administrative expenses (income) were $(2) million after tax in the third quarter of 2008 versus $11 million after tax in the third quarter of 2007. The decrease in expenses was primarily due to an $11 million favorable income tax consolidation adjustment in the third quarter of 2008. This adjustment essentially reversed unfavorable adjustments recorded in the first half of the year.
Net financing expenses were $7 million after tax in the third quarter of 2008 versus $9 million after tax in the third quarter of 2007. The decrease was primarily due to higher capitalized interest and the absence of expense attributable to the preferential return of third-party investors in Sunoco's Indiana Harbor cokemaking operations, partially offset by lower interest income.
SPECIAL ITEMS
During the third quarter of 2008, Sunoco elected not to proceed with a capital project at its Tulsa refinery and, as a result, recorded a $10 million after-tax provision to write-off the expenditures incurred to date on this project.
NINE MONTH RESULTS
Sunoco earned $572 million, or $4.88 per share of common stock on a diluted basis, for the first nine months of 2008 versus $900 million, or $7.46 per share, in the comparable 2007 period. The decrease
 
SUNOCO 3Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 4
 
was primarily due to lower margins in Sunoco's Refining and Supply business. Also contributing to the decline were the absence of a $90 million after-tax gain related to the prior issuance of SXL limited partnership units, higher expenses, lower production of refined products, lower gains on asset divestments, lower retail gasoline and distillate sales volumes, and the provision for asset write-downs associated with the canceled capital project at the Tulsa refinery. Partially offsetting these negative factors were higher average retail gasoline and distillate margins, higher income attributable to Sunoco's Coke, Logistics and Chemicals businesses, lower net financing expenses and an $11 million after-tax gain on an insurance recovery and a $10 million after-tax gain pertaining to certain income tax matters that were recognized in the second quarter of 2008.
Sunoco, Inc., headquartered in Philadelphia, PA, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of petroleum and petrochemical products. With 910 thousand barrels per day of refining capacity, approximately 4,700 retail sites selling gasoline and convenience items, approximately 5,500 miles of crude oil and refined product owned and operated pipelines and 38 product terminals, Sunoco is one of the largest independent refiner-marketers in the United States. Sunoco is a significant manufacturer of petrochemicals with annual sales of approximately five billion pounds, largely chemical intermediates used to make fibers, plastics, film and resins. Utilizing a unique, patented technology, Sunoco's cokemaking facilities in the United States have the capacity to manufacture approximately 3.0 million tons annually of high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for use in the steel industry. Sunoco also is the operator of, and has an equity interest in, a 1.7 million tons-per-year cokemaking facility in Vitria, Brazil.
Anyone interested in obtaining further insights into the third quarter's results can monitor the Company's quarterly teleconference call, which is scheduled for 3:00 p.m. ET on November 6, 2008. It can be accessed through Sunoco's website
- www.SunocoInc.com
. It is suggested that you visit the site prior to the teleconference to ensure that you have downloaded any necessary software.
Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although Sunoco believes that the assumptions underlying these statements are reasonable, investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and necessarily involve risks that may affect Sunoco's business prospects and performance, causing actual results to differ materially from those discussed in this release. Such risks and uncertainties include, by way of example and not of limitation: general economic, financial and business conditions which could affect Sunoco's financial condition and results of operations; changes in competition and competitive practices, including the impact of foreign imports; effects of weather conditions and natural disasters on the Company's operating facilities and on product supply and demand; changes in refining, marketing and chemical margins; changes in coal and coke prices; variation in crude oil and petroleum-based commodity prices and availability of crude oil and
 
SUNOCO 3Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 5
 
feedstock supply or transportation; effects of transportation disruptions; changes in the price differentials between light-sweet and heavy-sour crude oils; changes in the marketplace which may affect supply and demand for Sunoco's products; changes in the level of capital expenditures or operating expenses; changes in product specifications; availability and pricing of ethanol; changes in the level of environmental capital, operating or remediation expenditures; age of, and changes in the reliability, efficiency and capacity of, the Company's operating facilities or those of third parties; effects of adverse events relating to the operation of the Company's facilities and to the transportation and storage of hazardous materials (including equipment malfunction, explosions, fires, spills, and the effects of severe weather conditions); risks related to labor relations and workplace safety; changes in, or new, statutes and government regulations or their interpretations, including those relating to the environment and global warming; changes in accounting rules and/or tax laws or their interpretations, including the method of accounting for inventories and pensions; ability to identify acquisitions, execute them under favorable terms and integrate them into the Company's existing businesses; ability to enter into joint ventures and other similar arrangements under favorable terms; delays and/or costs related to construction, improvements and/or repairs of facilities (including shortages of skilled labor, the issuance of applicable permits and inflation); nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, major customers, suppliers, dealers, distributors or other business partners; changes in credit terms required by suppliers; changes in financial markets impacting pension expense and funding requirements; political and economic conditions in the markets in which the Company, its suppliers or customers operate, including the impact of potential terrorist acts and international hostilities; military conflicts between, or internal instability in, one or more oil producing countries, governmental actions and other disruptions in the ability to obtain crude oil; changes in the availability and cost of equity and debt financing, including amounts under the Company's revolving credit facilities; performance of financial institutions impacting the Company's liquidity, including those supporting the Company's revolving credit and accounts receivable securitization facilities; changes in the credit ratings assigned to the Company's debt securities or credit facilities; and changes in the status of, or initiation of new, litigation, arbitration or other proceedings to which the Company is a party or liability resulting from such litigation, arbitration or other proceedings, including natural resource damage claims. These and other applicable risks and uncertainties have been described more fully in Sunoco's Second Quarter 2008 Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 7, 2008 and in other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Sunoco undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this release, whether as a result of new information or future events.
 
SUNOCO 3Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 6
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 7
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 8
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 9
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 10
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 11
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 12
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 13
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 14
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 15
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 16
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 17
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 18
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 19
 
 
 



