FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20080617073112.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.   Regulation FD Disclosure.
On June 17, 2008, executives of Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") are conducting a plant tour of the Company's SunCoke Energy operations at Haverhill, Ohio. Related presentation slides and other information on the Company's cokemaking business, as described in the slides attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1, are incorporated by reference herein. This slide presentation is available on the Company's website at .
www.sunocoinc.com
The information in Item 7.01 of this report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Regulation FD. Accordingly, the information in Item 7.01 of this report will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference. The furnishing of the information in this report is not intended to, and does not, constitute a determination or admission by the Company, that the information in this report is material or complete, or that investors should consider this information before making an investment decision with respect to any security of the Company or any of its affiliates.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
99.1     Slide presentation given by executives of Sunoco, Inc. on June 17, 2008.
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibit to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results and capital spending could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results and capital spending include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 



