FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20080501132349.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The press release announcing the financial results for the Company's 2008 first quarter is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and 7.01 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
On April 30, 2008, Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's 2008 first quarter. Additional information concerning the Company's first quarter earnings, presented to investors in a teleconference call on May 1, 2008, is contained in a copy of the slide presentation attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Sunoco, Inc.
1735 Market Street
Philadelphia, Pa. 19103-7583
 
    Thomas Golembeski (media) 215-977-6298
    Tom Harr (investors) 215-977-6764
PHILADELPHIA, April 30, 2008  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) today reported a net loss of $59 million ($(.50) per share diluted) for the first quarter of 2008 versus net income of $175 million ($1.44 per share diluted) for the first quarter of 2007. Income before special items was $85 million ($0.70 per share diluted) for the first quarter of 2007. There were no special items in the first quarter of 2008.
"The first quarter market environment was clearly a challenging one for Sunoco and the refining industry," said John G. Drosdick, Sunoco Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "While earnings from our non-refining businesses were significantly improved from prior periods, our Refining and Supply business lost $123 million. The loss in Refining and Supply was primarily the result of weakness in refined product margins, especially for gasoline, which were compressed by the combination of higher crude oil costs and lower product demand.
"Sunoco's non-refining business units earned $84 million in the first quarter, with the largest contributions coming from Retail Marketing and SunCoke Energy. Retail Marketing earned $26 million, benefiting from expanded retail gasoline margins despite lower gasoline sales volumes versus a year ago. Earnings from SunCoke Energy were $25 million, aided by increased price realizations from our coal and coke production at our Jewell operations. With the anticipated completion later this year of a second cokemaking facility currently under construction at our Haverhill site, and with the recently announced agreements to construct, own and operate additional cokemaking plants in Middletown, Ohio and Granite City, Illinois, we are extremely pleased with the growth in this business."
Commenting on the outlook for the second quarter, Drosdick said, "Recent declines in U.S. gasoline inventories and continued low refinery utilization rates have led to some improvement in refining market fundamentals as we enter the spring and summer driving seasons. While higher crude oil costs
 
SUNOCO 1Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 2
 
and lower gasoline demand continued to challenge refiners in April, margins for distillate products remain very strong and gasoline margins are beginning to improve as we progress through the quarter. Due to maintenance activity and some rate reductions related to the market environment, we expect crude runs and production levels in the second quarter to approximate 90 to 95 percent of capacity."
DETAILS OF FIRST QUARTER RESULTS
REFINING AND SUPPLY
Refining and Supply had a loss of $123 million in the first quarter of 2008 versus income of $76 million in the first quarter of 2007. The decrease in earnings was due to lower realized margins and higher expenses, partially offset by higher production volumes. The lower margins reflect the negative impact of much higher average crude oil costs and lower product demand than a year ago, while the higher expenses were largely the result of increased prices for purchased fuel. Production volumes increased in the first quarter of 2008 compared to the year-ago period, although planned and unplanned maintenance work reduced production by approximately 11 million barrels throughout the refining system versus the record level of production in the fourth quarter of 2007. Production in the first quarter of 2007 was negatively impacted by major turnaround and expansion work at the Philadelphia refinery as well as downtime at the Tulsa and Marcus Hook refineries.
RETAIL MARKETING
Retail Marketing earned $26 million in the first quarter of 2008 versus $7 million in the first quarter of 2007. The increase in earnings was primarily due to higher average retail gasoline margins and lower expenses, partially offset by lower gasoline and distillate sales volumes.
CHEMICALS
Chemicals earned $18 million in the current quarter versus $9 million in the first quarter of 2007. The increase in earnings was due primarily to lower expenses and higher sales volumes. The lower expenses during the first quarter of 2008 were largely due to the transfer of cumene and propylene splitter assets to Refining and Supply, effective January 1, 2008. This asset transfer also reduced margins during the current quarter which was offset by higher realized margins on both phenol and polypropylene sales.
LOGISTICS
Earnings for the Logistics segment were $15 million in the first quarter of 2008 versus $9 million in the first quarter of 2007. The increase was due to record results from Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. (NYSE: SXL) which benefited from strong performance in its western pipeline system and terminalling operations. Sunoco currently has a 43 percent interest in Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P., which includes its 2 percent general partnership interest.
 
SUNOCO 1Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 3
 
COKE
The Coke business earned $25 million in the first quarter of 2008 versus $11 million in the prior year first quarter. The increase in earnings was primarily due to increased price realizations from coal and coke production at Jewell, partially offset by lower tax benefits from cokemaking operations.
CORPORATE AND OTHER
Corporate administrative expenses were $17 million after tax in the first quarter of 2008 versus $15 million in the first quarter of 2007. The increase was primarily due to a $9 million unfavorable income tax consolidation adjustment, partially offset by lower accruals for performance-related incentive compensation.
Net financing expenses were $3 million after tax in the first quarter of 2008 versus $12 million after tax in the first quarter of 2007. The decrease was primarily due to lower interest expense, higher interest income and the absence of expense attributable to the preferential return of third-party investors in Sunoco's Indiana Harbor cokemaking operations.
SPECIAL ITEM
During the first quarter of 2007, Sunoco recognized a $90 million after-tax gain related to the prior issuance of limited partnership units of Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. to the public.
Sunoco, Inc., headquartered in Philadelphia, PA, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of petroleum and petrochemical products. With 910 thousand barrels per day of refining capacity, nearly 4,700 retail sites selling gasoline and convenience items, approximately 5,500 miles of crude oil and refined product owned and operated pipelines and 38 product terminals, Sunoco is one of the largest independent refiner-marketers in the United States. Sunoco is a significant manufacturer of petrochemicals with annual sales of approximately five billion pounds, largely chemical intermediates used to make fibers, plastics, film and resins. Utilizing a unique, patented technology, Sunoco's cokemaking facilities in the United States have the capacity to manufacture over 2.5 million tons annually of high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for use in the steel industry. Sunoco also is the operator of, and has an equity interest in, a 1.7 million tons-per-year cokemaking facility in Vitria, Brazil.
Anyone interested in obtaining further insights into the first quarter's results can monitor the Company's quarterly teleconference call, which is scheduled for 3:00 p.m. ET on May 1, 2008. It can be accessed through Sunoco's websitewww.SunocoInc.com. It is suggested that you visit the site prior to the teleconference to ensure that you have downloaded any necessary software.
Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and
 
SUNOCO 1Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 4
 
Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although Sunoco believes that the assumptions underlying these statements are reasonable, investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and necessarily involve risks that may affect Sunoco's business prospects and performance, causing actual results to differ materially from those discussed in this release. Such risks and uncertainties include, by way of example and not of limitation: general economic, financial and business conditions which could affect Sunoco's financial condition and results of operations; changes in competition and competitive practices, including the impact of foreign imports; effects of weather conditions and natural disasters on the Company's operating facilities and on product supply and demand; changes in refining, marketing and chemical margins; changes in coal and coke prices; variation in petroleum-based commodity prices and availability of crude oil and feedstock supply or transportation; effects of transportation disruptions; changes in the price differentials between light-sweet and heavy-sour crude oils; changes in the marketplace which may affect supply and demand for Sunoco's products; changes in the level of capital expenditures or operating expenses; changes in product specifications; availability and pricing of ethanol; changes in the expected level of environmental capital, operating or remediation expenditures; age of, and changes in the reliability, efficiency and capacity of, the Company's operating facilities or those of third parties; effects of adverse events relating to the operation of the Company's facilities and to the transportation and storage of hazardous materials (including equipment malfunction, explosions, fires, spills, and the effects of severe weather conditions); risks related to labor relations and workplace safety; changes in, or new, statutes and government regulations or their interpretations, including those relating to the environment and global warming; changes in tax laws or their interpretations, including pension funding requirements; ability to identify acquisitions, execute them under favorable terms and integrate them into the Company's existing businesses; ability to enter into joint ventures and other similar arrangements under favorable terms; delays and/or costs related to construction, improvements and/or repairs of facilities (including shortages of skilled labor, the issuance of applicable permits and inflation); nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, major customers, suppliers, dealers, distributors or other business partners; changes in financial markets impacting pension expense and funding requirements; political and economic conditions in the markets in which the Company, its suppliers or customers operate, including the impact of potential terrorist acts and international hostilities; military conflicts between, or internal instability in, one or more oil producing countries, governmental actions and other disruptions in the ability to obtain crude oil; and changes in the status of, or initiation of new, litigation, arbitration or other proceedings to which the Company is a party or liability resulting from such litigation, arbitration or other proceedings, including natural resource damage claims. These and other applicable risks and uncertainties have been described more fully in Sunoco's 2007 Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 27, 2008 and in other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Sunoco undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this release, whether as a result of new information or future events.
 
SUNOCO 1Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 5
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 6
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 7
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 8
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 9
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 10
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 11
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 12
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 13
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 14
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 15
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 16
 
 
 
SUNOCO 1Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 17
 
 



