FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20090205134058.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The press release announcing the financial results for the Company's 2008 fourth quarter is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and 7.01 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
On February 4, 2009, Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's 2008 fourth quarter. Additional information concerning the Company's fourth quarter earnings, presented to investors in a teleconference call on February 5, 2009, is contained in a copy of the slide presentation attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Sunoco, Inc.
1735 Market Street
Philadelphia, Pa. 19103-7583
For further information contact                                 For release: IMMEDIATELY
Thomas Golembeski (media) 215-977-6298
Tom Harr (investors) 215-977-6764
PHILADELPHIA, February 4, 2009  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) today reported net income of $204 million ($1.74 per share diluted) for the fourth quarter of 2008 versus a net loss of $9 million ($(.08) per share diluted) for the fourth quarter of 2007. Excluding special items, Sunoco had income of $313 million ($2.68 per share diluted) for the 2008 fourth quarter versus $23 million ($0.20 per share diluted) for the 2007 fourth quarter.
For the full-year 2008, Sunoco reported net income of $776 million ($6.63 per share diluted) versus $891 million ($7.43 per share diluted) for the full-year 2007. Excluding special items, income for 2008 was $874 million ($7.46 per share diluted) versus $833 million ($6.94 per share diluted) for the full-year 2007.
"Despite periods of very challenging market conditions and significant volatility in commodity prices, 2008 highlighted the strength of our diversified business portfolio," said Lynn Elsenhans, Sunoco's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "While the slowing U.S. economy and declining gasoline demand led to lower refining margins during 2008, a record contribution from our non-refining businesses resulted in year-over-year operating earnings growth for Sunoco. In addition, despite the sharp decline in crude oil prices in the second half of the year that resulted in a significant increase in working capital requirements, Sunoco's financial position remains strong. We ended 2008 with $240 million of cash, approximately $1.4 billion of available committed borrowing capacity and a 37 percent net-debt-to-capital ratio as defined in the covenant of our revolving credit agreement.
 
SUNOCO 4Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 2
 
"As we enter 2009," Elsenhans continued, "we expect a challenging market for petroleum and chemical products that reflects continued economic weakness and additional global supply. However, our non-refining businesses should continue to provide a solid base of earnings and operating cash flow. In addition, we will be focused on maintaining our financial flexibility through the disciplined execution of our capital program, improvement in our cost structure and the active pursuit of opportunities to create value within our portfolio of assets."
DETAILS OF FOURTH QUARTER RESULTS
REFINING AND SUPPLY
Refining and Supply earned $182 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 versus $43 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. The increase in earnings came as reduced industry production related to hurricane activity and falling crude oil prices led to higher realized margins early in the quarter. Margin realization also benefited from continued efforts to optimize the economics of crude oil purchases by limiting purchases of higher-premium Nigeria-sourced crude oil grades. Partially offsetting these factors were a decline in production volumes from the fourth quarter of 2007 and a $28 million after-tax loss due to a reduction in inventories which were valued at higher costs from prior years under LIFO.
We expect that demand for refined products will continue to be impacted during 2009 by weakness in the economy and we plan to operate our refining system to meet market requirements. In January, overall crude utilization was approximately 76 percent versus 86 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008.
RETAIL MARKETING
Retail Marketing earned a record $103 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 versus $1 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. The increase in earnings was primarily due to significantly higher average retail gasoline and distillate margins that resulted from the steep decline in wholesale gasoline prices during the quarter. Partially offsetting the margin improvement was a decline in sales volumes due primarily to lower consumer demand.
Continuing its ongoing strategy to high-grade the allocation of invested capital throughout the retail network, Sunoco recently added approximately 150 Company-owned or leased sites to its Retail Portfolio Management program. Over the next two years, Sunoco expects to generate an estimated $180 million of proceeds from the divestment of these and other sites remaining in this program. From 2006 to 2008, the Company generated $133 million of divestment proceeds and $34 million of after-tax gains related to the sale of 181 sites.
 
SUNOCO 4Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 3
 
CHEMICALS
The Chemicals segment had a loss of $4 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 versus a loss of $2 million in the prior-year period. The lower results were attributable to a $12 million after-tax provision to write down Chemicals' polymers inventory to market value. Excluding this item, income increased $10 million from last year's fourth quarter due to higher margins, primarily for phenol, partially offset by lower sales volumes. However, despite large declines in feedstock costs in the fourth quarter, chemicals margins exited 2008 under considerable pressure due to weak industry demand. This weakness is expected to continue into the first quarter. Sunoco recently announced its intention to permanently close its 400 million pounds-per-year polypropylene manufacturing facility located in Bayport, TX no later than April 30, 2009.
LOGISTICS
Earnings for the Logistics segment were $29 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 versus $12 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. The increase in earnings was due to record results from Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. (NYSE: SXL) which benefitted from higher lease acquisition income, increased pipeline fees across their system and higher crude pipeline volumes.
COKE
The Coke business earned $28 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 versus a loss of $2 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. The increase in earnings was due primarily to increased price realizations from coal and coke production at the Jewell facility. Results were limited later in the quarter by declining coal prices and lower third-party coal sales at Jewell, factors which are expected to continue into early 2009.
CORPORATE AND OTHER
Corporate administrative expenses were $20 million after tax in the current quarter versus $23 million after tax in the fourth quarter of 2007.
Net financing expenses were $5 million after tax in the fourth quarter of 2008 versus $6 million after tax in the fourth quarter of 2007.
SPECIAL ITEMS
During the fourth quarter of 2008, Sunoco recorded an $85 million after-tax provision to write down to estimated fair value its Tulsa, OK refinery, which it intends to sell or convert to a terminal by the end of 2009; recorded a $35 million after-tax provision to write down to estimated fair value its Bayport, TX polypropylene plant; and recorded a $19 million after-tax provision to write off goodwill pertaining to its polypropylene business. During the fourth quarter of 2008, Sunoco also recorded a $16 million after-tax gain related to certain income tax matters and a $14 million after-tax gain resulting from the correction of an error in the computation of a gain recorded in 2007 related to the prior issuance of SXL limited partnership units to the public.
 
SUNOCO 4Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 4
 
During the fourth quarter of 2007, Sunoco recorded an $8 million after-tax provision to write off a previously idled phenol line at Chemicals' Haverhill, OH plant which will not be re-started; recorded a $7 million after-tax loss related to the sale of Chemicals' Neville Island, PA terminal facility, which included an accrual for enhanced pension benefits associated with employee terminations and for other required exit costs; and recorded a $17 million after-tax accrual related to the settlement of certain MTBE litigation.
Sunoco, Inc., headquartered in Philadelphia, PA, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of petroleum and petrochemical products. With 910 thousand barrels per day of refining capacity, approximately 4,700 retail sites selling gasoline and convenience items, approximately 6,000 miles of crude oil and refined product owned and operated pipelines and 43 product terminals, Sunoco is one of the largest independent refiner-marketers in the United States. Sunoco is a significant manufacturer of petrochemicals with annual sales of approximately five billion pounds, largely chemical intermediates used to make fibers, plastics, film and resins. Utilizing a unique, patented technology, Sunoco's cokemaking facilities in the United States have the capacity to manufacture approximately 3.0 million tons annually of high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for use in the steel industry. Sunoco also is the operator of, and has an equity interest in, a 1.7 million tons-per-year cokemaking facility in Vitria, Brazil.
Anyone interested in obtaining further insights into the fourth quarter's results can monitor the Company's quarterly teleconference call, which is scheduled for 3:00 p.m. ET on February 5, 2009. It can be accessed through Sunoco's website - www.SunocoInc.com. It is suggested that you visit the site prior to the teleconference to ensure that you have downloaded any necessary software.
Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although Sunoco believes that the assumptions underlying these statements are reasonable, investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and necessarily involve risks that may affect Sunoco's business prospects and performance, causing actual results to differ materially from those discussed in this release. Such risks and uncertainties include, by way of example and not of limitation: general economic, financial and business conditions which could affect Sunoco's financial condition and results of operations; changes in competition and competitive practices, including the impact of foreign imports; effects of weather conditions and natural disasters on the Company's operating facilities and on product supply and demand; changes in refining, marketing and chemical margins; changes in coal and coke prices; variation in crude oil and petroleum-based commodity prices and availability of crude
 
SUNOCO 4Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 5
 
oil and feedstock supply or transportation; effects of transportation disruptions; changes in the price differentials between light-sweet and heavy-sour crude oils; changes in the marketplace which may affect supply and demand for Sunoco's products; changes in the level of capital expenditures or operating expenses; changes in product specifications; availability and pricing of ethanol; changes in the level of environmental capital, operating or remediation expenditures; age of, and changes in the reliability, efficiency and capacity of, the Company's operating facilities or those of third parties; effects of adverse events relating to the operation of the Company's facilities and to the transportation and storage of hazardous materials (including equipment malfunction, explosions, fires, spills, and the effects of severe weather conditions); risks related to labor relations and workplace safety; changes in, or new, statutes and government regulations or their interpretations, including those relating to the environment and global warming; changes in accounting rules and/or tax laws or their interpretations, including the method of accounting for inventories and pensions; ability to identify acquisitions, execute them under favorable terms and integrate them into the Company's existing businesses; ability to effect divestitures under favorable terms; ability to enter into joint ventures and other similar arrangements under favorable terms; delays and/or costs related to construction, improvements and/or repairs of facilities (including shortages of skilled labor, the issuance of applicable permits and inflation); nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with, major customers, suppliers, dealers, distributors or other business partners; changes in credit terms required by suppliers; changes in financial markets impacting pension expense and funding requirements; political and economic conditions in the markets in which the Company, its suppliers or customers operate, including the impact of potential terrorist acts and international hostilities; military conflicts between, or internal instability in, one or more oil producing countries, governmental actions and other disruptions in the ability to obtain crude oil; changes in the availability and cost of equity and debt financing, including amounts under the Company's revolving credit facilities; performance of financial institutions impacting the Company's liquidity, including those supporting the Company's revolving credit and accounts receivable securitization facilities; changes in the credit ratings assigned to the Company's debt securities or credit facilities; changes in insurance markets impacting costs and the level and types of coverage available, and the financial ability of the Company's insurers to meet their obligations; and changes in the status of, or initiation of new, litigation, arbitration or other proceedings to which the Company is a party or liability resulting from such litigation, arbitration or other proceedings, including natural resource damage claims. These and other applicable risks and uncertainties have been described more fully in Sunoco's Third Quarter 2008 Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 6, 2008 and in other periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Sunoco undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this release, whether as a result of new information or future events.
 
SUNOCO 4Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 6
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 7
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 8
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 9
 
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 10
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 11
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 13
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 14
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 15
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 16
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 17
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 18
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q08 EARNINGS, PAGE 19
 
 
 



