FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20100729161855.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The press release announcing the financial results for the Company's 2010 second quarter is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and 7.01 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
On July 29, 2010, Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's 2010 second quarter. Additional information concerning the Company's second quarter earnings, presented to investors in a teleconference call on July 29, 2010, is contained in a copy of the slide presentation attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Sunoco, Inc.
1735 Market Street
Philadelphia, Pa. 19103-7583
 
PHILADELPHIA, July 29, 2010  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) today reported net income attributable to Sunoco shareholders of $145 million ($1.20 per share diluted) for the second quarter of 2010 versus a net loss attributable to Sunoco shareholders of $55 million ($.47 per share diluted) for the second quarter of 2009. Excluding special items, Sunoco had income for the 2010 second quarter of $158 million ($1.31 per share diluted) versus a 2009 second quarter loss of $31 million ($.27 per share diluted).
For the first six months of 2010, Sunoco reported net income attributable to Sunoco shareholders of $82 million ($.69 per share diluted) versus a net loss attributable to Sunoco shareholders of $43 million ($.37 per share diluted) for the first six months of 2009.
"While market conditions during the second quarter remained challenging, our refining business was profitable for the first time since the first quarter of 2009. This is a clear indication that our decisive actions are beginning to show results. By improving margin capture, reducing costs, and optimizing the performance of our refineries, we achieved solid results during a period of continued economic weakness and excess supply of petroleum and chemical products," said Lynn L. Elsenhans, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
SUNOCO 2Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 2
 
"Sunoco's non-refining businesses are providing steady earnings and our balance sheet is very strong," said Elsenhans. "We remain focused on the fundamentals: running our refineries safely and reliably at optimal capacity utilization, lowering our breakeven cost per barrel, and furthering the progress we have made in capturing available margin."
Sunoco significantly improved its cash position, ending the quarter with $1.5 billion of cash, with the increase largely driven by strong operating cash flows and the receipt of proceeds from the sale of the polypropylene business which closed in the first quarter of 2010.
"Our recently announced intent to separate SunCoke Energy from the rest of Sunoco in the first half of 2011 is part of a strategy to unlock shareholder value and maximize the future success of both entities," Elsenhans continued. "The fuels and coke units are distinct businesses with different models, different sets of customers and no significant integration or synergies."
With a dedicated management team and direct access to capital markets, SunCoke Energy should be better able to achieve the scale needed to pursue domestic and international growth opportunities. Similarly, through a more focused strategic plan, Sunoco's streamlined fuels business should be better positioned to take advantage of growth opportunities and become the premier provider of transportation fuels in its markets.
"We see potential opportunities to grow inside and outside Sunoco's traditional footprint both in Retail and through Sunoco Logistics, as recently announced logistics acquisitions and projects demonstrate," said Elsenhans.
DETAILS OF SECOND QUARTER RESULTS
REFINING AND SUPPLY- Continuing Operations
Refining and Supply had income from continuing operations of $86 million in the second quarter of 2010 versus a loss of $77 million in the second quarter of 2009. The increase in results was due to higher realized margins and lower expenses, partially offset by lower production volumes which were largely attributable to the closure of the Eagle Point refinery in the fourth quarter of 2009. The overall crude utilization rate was 92 percent for the quarter, up from 79 percent in the first quarter of 2010, which was impacted by significant planned turnaround activities. Lower expenses were largely the result of cost reductions related to the business improvement initiative carried out during the last three quarters of 2009 and the closure of the Eagle Point refinery in the fourth quarter of 2009. Also contributing to the lower expenses were lower costs for purchased fuel and utilities and the absence of the write-off of certain assets in connection with the shutdown of the ethylene complex at the Marcus Hook refinery in 2009.
SUNOCO 2Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 3
 
REFINING AND SUPPLY- Discontinued Operations
Discontinued Tulsa refining operations, which were divested on June 1, 2009, had a loss of $6 million in the second quarter of 2009.
RETAIL MARKETING
Retail Marketing earned $45 million in the current quarter versus $10 million in the second quarter of 2009. The increase in earnings was due to higher average retail gasoline margins driven by falling wholesale prices and lower expenses.
CHEMICALS- Continuing Operations
Chemicals reported income from continuing operations of $5 million in the second quarter of 2010 versus a loss of $3 million in the second quarter of 2009. The improvement in results was primarily due to higher sales volumes and slightly better margins.
CHEMICALS- Discontinued Operations
Discontinued polypropylene operations, which were divested on March 31, 2010, had income of $3 million in the second quarter of 2009.
LOGISTICS
Logistics earned $20 million in the second quarter of 2010 versus $26 million in the second quarter of 2009. The decrease in earnings was due primarily to lower results from crude marketing activities as a result of reduced market-related profits largely attributable to the contraction of the contango market structure.
On July 1, 2010, Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. acquired Texon's butane blending business for $140 million plus inventory. This business consists of patented technology for sophisticated blending of butane into gasoline, contracts with several large terminal operators currently utilizing the patented technology, butane inventories, and other related assets. The Partnership also announced recently that it has exercised certain rights to increase its ownership interests in Mid-Valley Pipeline Company, West Texas Gulf Pipe Line Company and West Shore Pipe Line Company. These three transactions are expected to close within the next 30 days for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $100 million.
COKE
Coke earned $41 million in the second quarter of 2010 as compared to $42 million in the second quarter of 2009. The decrease in earnings was due to the absence of a $6 million after-tax dividend attributable to the 2008 Brazilian cokemaking operations which was recognized in the second quarter of 2009. Partially offsetting this decrease was higher coke sales volumes in the second quarter of 2010.
SUNOCO 2Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 4
 
CORPORATE AND OTHER
Corporate administrative expenses were $20 million after tax in the second quarter of 2010 versus $15 million after tax in the second quarter of 2009. Corporate expenses increased primarily due to incentive compensation accruals stemming from the Company's improved financial performance.
Net Financing Expenses and Other  Net financing expenses and other were $19 million after tax in the second quarter of 2010 versus $11 million after tax in the second quarter of 2009. The increase was primarily due to lower capitalized interest and interest income.
Sunoco also recently reached agreement with IBM (NYSE: IBM) to outsource some back office processes, including information technology, finance and accounting transaction processing, and indirect procurement. This arrangement marks another important step in Sunoco's continued expense reduction program, which is critical to improving the Company's competitiveness.
SPECIAL ITEMS
During the second quarter of 2010, Sunoco recorded a $13 million after-tax provision for pension settlement losses and employee terminations and related costs in connection with the business improvement initiative.
During the second quarter of 2009, Sunoco recorded a $44 million after-tax provision for employee terminations and related costs in connection with its business improvement initiative, of which $39 million after tax was attributable to a noncash provision for pension and postretirement settlement and curtailment losses. Sunoco also recognized a $20 million net after-tax gain in the second quarter of 2009 related to the divestment of the discontinued Tulsa refining operations.
Sunoco is a leading transportation fuel provider, with operations located primarily in the East Coast and Midwest regions of the United States. The Company operates more than 4,700 branded retail locations that market transportation fuels and convenience store merchandise in 23 states. This retail network is principally supplied by Sunoco-owned refineries with a combined crude oil processing capacity of 675,000 barrels per day. Sunoco is also the General Partner and has a 33-percent interest in Sunoco Logistics Partners, L.P., a publicly traded master limited partnership which owns and operates 6,000 miles of refined product and crude oil pipelines and approximately 40 product terminals. Many of Sunoco Logistics' pipelines and terminals and storage facilities are integrated with Sunoco's retail network and refineries. Through SunCoke Energy, Sunoco makes high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for major steel manufacturers. The company's facilities in the U.S. have the capacity to manufacture approximately 3.67 million tons of metallurgical-grade coke annually. Sunoco also is the operator of, and has an equity interest in, a 1.7 million tons-per-year cokemaking facility in Vitria, Brazil.
SUNOCO 2Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 5
 
Anyone interested in obtaining further insights into the second quarter's results can monitor the Company's quarterly teleconference call, which is scheduled for 5:30 p.m. ET on July 29, 2010. It can be accessed through Sunoco's website - www.SunocoInc.com. It is suggested that you visit the site prior to the teleconference to ensure that you have downloaded any necessary software.
Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions by the Company concerning future conditions, any or all of which ultimately may prove to be inaccurate, and upon the current knowledge, beliefs and expectations of Company management. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and involve significant known and unknown risks and uncertainties (many of which are beyond the control of the Company) that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in this release.
Such risks and uncertainties include economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting the Company's business, as well as uncertainties related to the outcomes of pending or future litigation, legislation, or regulatory actions. Among such risks are: changes in crude oil or natural gas prices, refining, marketing and chemicals margins, or other market conditions affecting the oil and gas industry; higher-than-expected costs of, or delays in, planned development or completion of repair projects, capital projects, acquisitions, or dispositions; operational interruptions, unforeseen technical difficulties and/or changes in technical or operating conditions; general domestic and international economic and political conditions, wars and acts of terrorism or sabotage; the outcome of commercial negotiations; the actions of competitors or regulators; the competitiveness of alternate-energy sources or product substitutes; technological developments; liability resulting from pending or future litigation; significant investment or product changes and/or liability for remedial actions or assessments under existing or future environmental regulations; gains and losses related to the acquisition, disposition or impairment of assets; recapitalizations; access to, or significantly higher costs of, capital; the effects of changes in accounting rules applicable to the Company; and changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations applicable to the Company's businesses. Unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this release also could have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements.
In accordance with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company has included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 and in its subsequent Form 10-Q and Form 8-K filings, cautionary language identifying other important
SUNOCO 2Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 6
 
factors (though not necessarily all such factors) that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. For more information concerning these factors, see the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, available on the Company's website at www.SunocoInc.com.
SUNOCO 2Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 7
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 8
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 9
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 10
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 11
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 12
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 13
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 14
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 15
 
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 16
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 17
 
 
SUNOCO 2Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 18
 
 
 



