FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20101028171427.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The press release announcing the financial results for the Company's 2010 third quarter is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and 7.01 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
On October 28, 2010, Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's 2010 third quarter. Additional information concerning the Company's third quarter earnings, presented to investors in a teleconference call on October 28, 2010, is contained in a copy of the slide presentation attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

SUNOCO 3Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 1
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Sunoco, Inc.
1735 Market Street
Philadelphia, Pa. 19103-7583
For further information contact:                                                                                              For release: IMMEDIATELY
Thomas Golembeski (media) 215-977-6298
Clare McGrory (investors) 215-977-6764
PHILADELPHIA, October 28, 2010  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) today reported net income attributable to Sunoco shareholders of $65 million ($.54 per share diluted) for the third quarter of 2010 versus a net loss attributable to Sunoco shareholders of $312 million ($2.67 per share diluted) for the third quarter of 2009. Excluding special items, Sunoco had income of $27 million ($.22 per share diluted) for the third quarter of 2010 versus a 2009 third quarter loss of $34 million ($.29 per share diluted). Highlights of the third quarter include:
 
 
 
 
 
For the first nine months of 2010, Sunoco reported net income attributable to Sunoco shareholders of $147 million ($1.22 per share diluted) versus a net loss attributable to Sunoco shareholders of $355 million ($3.04 per share diluted) for the first nine months of 2009.
"We were profitable on the strength of our retail, logistics, and coke operations  areas we have targeted for future growth," said Lynn L. Elsenhans, Sunoco's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Despite posting a loss, our Refining and Supply segment's year-over-year improvement in financial performance reflects our continued focus on the fundamentals: margin capture, sustainably lowering our breakeven
SUNOCO 3Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 2
 
cost per barrel, and running our facilities safely and reliably. While transportation fuels will likely face continued weak demand, abundant supply, and pressured margins for the foreseeable future, our strong balance sheet and a brand and logistics led strategy that is focused on higher growth leave us well positioned going forward."
Commenting on the coke business, Elsenhans said, "With $33 million in income, SunCoke Energy's record of strong performance continues. Our plans to separate SunCoke from Sunoco in the first half of 2011 are on track and progressing well, as demonstrated by the recent hiring of Fritz Henderson to be its CEO and announced relocation of SunCoke's headquarters to a major metropolitan area better able to support a high-growth international business."
DETAILS OF THIRD QUARTER RESULTS
FUELS BUSINESS RESULTS
Refining and Supply  Continuing Operations
Refining and Supply had a loss from continuing operations of $44 million in the third quarter of 2010 versus a loss of $118 million in the third quarter of 2009. The improved results were primarily due to higher realized margins and lower expenses. The overall crude utilization rate was 94 percent for the quarter, well above the utilization rate of 74 percent in the third quarter of 2009. Lower expenses were largely the result of cost reductions related to the business improvement initiative carried out during the last three quarters of 2009 and the closure of the Eagle Point refinery in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Retail Marketing
Retail Marketing earned $41 million in the current quarter versus $49 million in the third quarter of 2009. The decrease in earnings was largely due to lower average retail gasoline and distillate margins partially offset by lower expenses.
Logistics
Logistics earned $26 million in the third quarter of 2010 versus $19 million in the third quarter of 2009. The increase in earnings was primarily driven by higher lease acquisition results driven largely by improved contango profits and additional earnings attributable to acquisitions and organic growth projects.
On July 1, 2010, Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. acquired Texon's butane blending business for $152 million including $11 million of inventory. This business consists of patented technology for sophisticated blending of butane into gasoline, contracts with several large terminal operators currently utilizing the patented technology, butane inventories, and other related assets. The Partnership also increased its ownership
SUNOCO 3Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 3
 
 
interests in Mid-Valley Pipeline Company ("Mid-Valley"), West Texas Gulf Pipe Line Company ("West Texas Gulf") and West Shore Pipe Line Company during the third quarter of 2010 for an aggregate purchase price of $91 million. In connection with the acquisitions, Logistics recognized a $37 million after-tax gain attributable to Sunoco shareholders from the remeasurement of its pre-acquisition equity interests in Mid-Valley and West Texas Gulf to fair value. This gain was included in special items in the third quarter of 2010.
Chemicals  Continuing Operations
Chemicals reported income from continuing operations of $3 million in the third quarter of 2010 versus a loss of $2 million in the third quarter of 2009. The improvement in results was primarily due to higher sales volumes.
Chemicals  Discontinued Operations
Discontinued polypropylene operations, which were divested on March 31, 2010, had income of $1 million in the third quarter of 2009.
COKE BUSINESS RESULTS
Coke earned $33 million in the third quarter of 2010 versus $35 million in the third quarter of 2009. The decrease in earnings was attributable to lower results from the Jewell coal and coke operations which were substantially offset by higher results from the other U.S. coke facilities. The decline at the Jewell operations was primarily due to lower coal and coke prices. The improvement at the other U.S. facilities was driven by higher margins and volumes, including results from the Granite City facility which commenced operations in the fourth quarter of 2009.
OTHER
Corporate administrative expenses were $17 million after tax in the third quarter of 2010 versus $6 million after tax in the third quarter of 2009. Corporate expenses increased primarily due to incentive compensation accruals stemming from the Company's improved financial performance versus 2009 and the absence of a $5 million favorable income tax consolidation adjustment recognized in the third quarter of 2009.
Net Financing Expenses and Other  Net financing expenses and other were $15 million after tax in the third quarter of 2010 versus $12 million after tax in the third quarter of 2009. The increase was primarily due to lower capitalized interest and higher debt expense primarily attributable to borrowings of Sunoco Logistics associated with their growth capital.
SPECIAL ITEMS
During the third quarter of 2010, Sunoco recognized a $37 million after-tax gain attributable to Sunoco shareholders from the remeasurement of its pre-acquisition interests in Sunoco Logistics equity investments to fair value, recorded an $8 million after-tax provision for pension settlement losses and
SUNOCO 3Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 4
 
recognized a $9 million after-tax gain on an insurance settlement related to MTBE coverage. The total net impact of special items during the third quarter of 2010 was a gain of $38 million after tax.
During the third quarter of 2009, Sunoco recorded a $278 million after-tax provision in connection with the permanent shut down of all process units at the Eagle Point refinery in the fourth quarter of 2009, of which $254 million was attributable to non-cash charges; recorded a $14 million after-tax charge in connection with the business improvement initiative attributable to a non-cash provision for pension and postretirement settlement losses; recorded a $12 million after-tax non-cash provision to write down to estimated fair value certain other assets in the Refining and Supply business; and recognized a $26 million after-tax gain on divestment of the retail heating oil and propane distribution business. The total net impact of special items during the third quarter of 2009 was a charge of $278 million after tax.
Sunoco is a leading transportation fuel provider, with operations located primarily in the East Coast and Midwest regions of the United States. The Company operates more than 4,800 branded retail locations that market transportation fuels and convenience store merchandise in 23 states. This retail network is principally supplied by Sunoco-owned refineries with a combined crude oil processing capacity of 675,000 barrels per day. Sunoco is also the General Partner and has a 31-percent interest in Sunoco Logistics Partners, L.P., a publicly traded master limited partnership which owns and operates 7,600 miles of refined product and crude oil pipelines and approximately 40 active product terminals. Many of Sunoco Logistics' pipelines and terminals and storage facilities are integrated with Sunoco's retail network and refineries. Through SunCoke Energy, Sunoco makes high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for major steel manufacturers. The company's facilities in the U.S. have the capacity to manufacture approximately 3.67 million tons of metallurgical-grade coke annually. Sunoco also is the operator of, and has an equity interest in, a 1.7 million tons-per-year cokemaking facility in Vitria, Brazil.
Anyone interested in obtaining further insights into the third quarter's results can monitor the Company's quarterly teleconference call, which is scheduled for 5:30 p.m. ET on October 28, 2010. It can be accessed through Sunoco's website  www.SunocoInc.com. It is suggested that you visit the site prior to the teleconference to ensure that you have downloaded any necessary software.
Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions by the Company concerning future conditions, any or all of which ultimately may prove to be inaccurate, and upon the current knowledge, beliefs and expectations of Company management. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of
SUNOCO 3Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 5
 
the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and involve significant known and unknown risks and uncertainties (many of which are beyond the control of the Company) that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in this release.
Such risks and uncertainties include economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting the Company's business, as well as uncertainties related to the outcomes of pending or future litigation, legislation, or regulatory actions. Among such risks are: changes in crude oil or natural gas prices, refining, marketing and chemicals margins, or other market conditions affecting the oil and gas industry; higher-than-expected costs of, or delays in, planned development or completion of repair projects, capital projects, acquisitions, or dispositions; operational interruptions, unforeseen technical difficulties and/or changes in technical or operating conditions; general domestic and international economic and political conditions, wars and acts of terrorism or sabotage; the outcome of commercial negotiations; the actions of competitors or regulators; the competitiveness of alternate-energy sources or product substitutes; technological developments; liability resulting from pending or future litigation; significant investment or product changes and/or liability for remedial actions or assessments under existing or future environmental regulations; gains and losses related to the acquisition, disposition or impairment of assets; recapitalizations; access to, or significantly higher costs of, capital; the effects of changes in accounting rules applicable to the Company; and changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations applicable to the Company's businesses. Unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this release also could have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements.
In accordance with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company has included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 and in its subsequent Form 10-Q and Form 8-K filings, cautionary language identifying other important factors (though not necessarily all such factors) that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. For more information concerning these factors, see the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, available on the Company's website at www.SunocoInc.com.
SUNOCO 3Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 6
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 7
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 8
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 9
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 10
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 11
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 12
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 13
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 14
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 15
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 16
 
 
 
SUNOCO 3Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 17
 
 
 
 



