FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20100706170040.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On July 1, 2010, the Board of Directors of Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") elected Chris C. Casciato to the Company's Board of Directors ("Board"), effective July 1, 2010. Mr. Casciato fills a vacancy created by an increase in the size of the Board from eight to nine directors. The Board also appointed Mr. Casciato to serve on the Audit Committee and the Compensation Committee of the Board.
Mr. Casciato spent more than 20 years at Goldman Sachs and Company where he was a partner. Currently, Mr. Casciato is Managing Director of Lightyear Capital, LLC, a private equity investment firm.
Mr. Casciato will participate in the compensation program for the Company's outside directors, described on pages 65 through 70 in the Company's Definitive Proxy Statement for its 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 17, 2010). Mr. Casciato's compensation will be prorated to reflect the commencement date of his service on the Board.
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, is a copy of the Company's press release dated July 6, 2010, announcing Mr. Casciato's election to the Board, which is incorporated herein by this reference.
 
 
99.1 - Sunoco, Inc. Press Release, dated July 6, 2010.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For further information contact
Thomas Golembeski (media) 215-977-6298
Clare McGrory (investors) 215-977-6764
Philadelphia, July 6, 2010  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) announced today that Chris C. Casciato has been elected to its board of directors.
Mr. Casciato, 51, is currently Managing Director of Lightyear Capital, LLC, a private equity investment firm. Previously, Mr. Casciato spent more than 20 years at Goldman Sachs and Company where he was a partner. Mr. Casciato is also currently a director of Community & Southern Holdings and its subsidiary, Community & Southern Bank.
"We are pleased that Chris has joined Sunoco's board," said Lynn L. Elsenhans, Sunoco's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "His experience and financial knowledge will complement that of our existing board and bring added value to our deliberations."
Sunoco, Inc., headquartered in Philadelphia, PA, is a leading manufacturer and marketer of petroleum and petrochemical products. With 675,000 barrels per day of refining capacity, approximately 4,700 retail sites selling gasoline and convenience items, and an ownership interest in approximately 6,000 miles of crude oil and refined product pipelines and approximately 41 product terminals, Sunoco is one of the largest independent refiner-marketers in the United States. Utilizing a technology with several proprietary features, Sunoco's cokemaking facilities in the United States have the nominal capacity to manufacture approximately 3.67 million tons annually of high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for use in the steel industry. Sunoco also is the operator of, and has an equity interest in, a 1.7 million tons-per-year cokemaking facility in Vitria, Brazil.
 


