FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20110505171643.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
The press release announcing the financial results for the Company's 2011 first quarter is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and 7.01 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
On May 5, 2011, Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's 2011 first quarter. Additional information concerning the Company's first quarter earnings, presented to investors in a teleconference call on May 5, 2011, is contained in a copy of the slide presentation attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d)   Exhibits
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Sunoco, Inc.
1818 Market Street, Suite 1500
Philadelphia, PA 19103
 
PHILADELPHIA, May 5, 2011  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) today reported a net loss attributable to Sunoco shareholders of $101 million ($0.84 per share diluted) for the first quarter of 2011 versus a net loss attributable to Sunoco shareholders of $63 million ($0.53 per share diluted) for the first quarter of 2010. Excluding special items, Sunoco had a loss of $122 million ($1.01 per share diluted) for the first quarter of 2011 versus first quarter 2010 income of $17 million ($0.14 per share diluted). Key first quarter details include:
 
 
 
 
 
"The sharp rise in crude oil prices created very challenging market conditions in the first quarter which, along with some significant operational reliability issues at two of our refineries, negatively impacted earnings. We have been aggressively focused on addressing the reliability issues," said Lynn L. Elsenhans, Sunoco's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "During the first quarter, we continued to make progress on growing our retail and logistics businesses and separating SunCoke Energy from Sunoco. We finished the quarter with approximately $1.5 billion in cash, which gives us strategic flexibility to further pursue our growth plans."
Commenting on the coke business, Elsenhans said, "The recent filing of SunCoke's registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission represents an important step in the separation process. We also have an
exceptional and experienced management team in place and we expect to complete the relocation of SunCoke's corporate headquarters to the Chicago area in May. Establishing SunCoke as an independent company remains a priority."
DETAILS OF FIRST QUARTER RESULTS
FUELS BUSINESS RESULTS
Refining and Supply
Refining and Supply had a pretax loss of $138 million in the current quarter versus a loss of $70 million in the first quarter of 2010. The $68 million decrease in results was primarily due to lower realized margins and production volumes. The overall crude utilization rate was 74 percent for the quarter, down from 85 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010. Production volumes were negatively affected by significant unplanned maintenance activities at the Philadelphia and Marcus Hook refineries during the first quarter of 2011.
Retail Marketing
Retail Marketing earned $12 million pretax in the current quarter versus $34 million in the first quarter of 2010. The decrease in earnings was primarily due to lower average retail gasoline margins largely driven by the inability to fully pass-through wholesale price increases caused by the run up in crude prices.
Logistics
Logistics earned $31 million pretax in the first quarter of 2011 versus $27 million in the first quarter of 2010. The improvement in results was primarily due to higher lease acquisition results and earnings attributable to recent acquisitions and organic growth projects.
Chemicals - Continuing Operations
Chemicals had a pretax loss of $9 million in the first quarter of 2011 versus income of $5 million in the first quarter of 2010. The decrease in results was primarily attributable to the unplanned refinery downtime at the Company's Philadelphia refinery which limited supply of cumene to the Frankford phenol facility, raising feedstock costs and reducing production
.
Chemicals - Discontinued Polypropylene Operations
Discontinued polypropylene operations, which were divested on March 31, 2010, had pretax income of $33 million in the first quarter of 2010.
 
COKE BUSINESS RESULTS
Coke earned $9 million pretax in the first quarter of 2011 versus $51 million in the first quarter of 2010. The decrease in earnings was attributable to lower coke sales revenues as a result of the Jewell contract restructuring with ArcelorMittal in January 2011 and a $25 million decline in results at the Indiana Harbor cokemaking facility due to lower coal-to-coke yields, higher maintenance expenses and the recognition of a $13 million contract loss in connection with agreements to purchase coke from third-parties to cover the projected 2011 production shortfall.
OTHER
Corporate administrative expenses were $22 million pretax in the first quarter of 2011 versus $23 million in the first quarter of 2010.
Net financing expenses and other were $24 million pretax in the first quarter of 2011 compared to $28 million in the first quarter of 2010. The decrease was primarily driven by higher interest income and capitalized interest, partially offset by higher interest expense.
INCOME TAXES
Excluding the impact of special items, the effective tax rates on pretax income attributable to Sunoco, Inc. shareholders for the first quarter of 2011 and 2010 were 13 and 41 percent, respectively. The effective tax rates for each quarter were determined based upon the expected full year tax rates at the end of each quarter. The reduction in the effective rate in 2011 is largely attributable to the estimated impact of nonconventional fuel tax credits and higher coal depletion deductions combined with lower expected pretax earnings.
SPECIAL ITEMS
During the first quarter of 2011, Sunoco recognized a $15 million gain ($4 million after tax) related to the divestment of the Toledo refinery and related inventory; recognized a $42 million gain ($26 million after tax) resulting from the reduction of crude oil and refined product inventories at the Toledo refinery prior to its divestment; recorded a $6 million provision ($4 million after tax) primarily for pension settlement losses in connection with business improvement initiatives; and recorded a $5 million increase to deferred income taxes in part due to apportionment changes as a result of the sale of the Toledo refinery. The total net impact of special items during the first quarter of 2011 was a pretax gain of $51 million ($21 million after tax).
During the first quarter of 2010, Sunoco recorded a $169 million loss ($44 million after tax) related to the divestment of the discontinued polypropylene operations; recorded a $33 million provision ($20 million after tax) primarily related to contract losses in connection with excess barge capacity resulting from the permanent shutdown of the Eagle Point refinery during 2009; recorded a $12 million provision ($7 million after tax) primarily for pension settlement losses in connection with business improvement initiatives; and recorded a $9 million increase in deferred state income taxes attributable to the transfer of assets related to its continuing
 
phenol chemicals operations to a different legal entity subsequent to the sale of the stock of the discontinued polypropylene business. The total net impact of special items during the first quarter of 2010 was a pretax loss of $214 million ($80 million after tax).
Sunoco is a leading transportation fuel provider, with operations located primarily in the East Coast and Midwest regions of the United States. The Company sells transportation fuels through more than 4,900 branded retail locations in 23 states. APlus convenience stores are operated by the Company or independent dealers in more than 600 retail locations. The retail network in the Northeast is principally supplied by Sunoco-owned refineries with a combined crude oil processing capacity of 505,000 barrels per day. Sunoco is also the General Partner and has a 31-percent interest in Sunoco Logistics Partners, L.P., a publicly traded master limited partnership which owns and operates 7,600 miles of refined product and crude oil pipelines and approximately 40 active product terminals. Through SunCoke Energy, Sunoco makes high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for major steel manufacturers. The Company's facilities in the U.S. have the capacity to manufacture approximately 3.7 million tons of metallurgical-grade coke annually. Sunoco also is the operator of, and has an equity interest in, a 1.7 million tons-per-year cokemaking facility in Vitria, Brazil.
Anyone interested in obtaining further insights into the first quarter's results can monitor the Company's quarterly teleconference call, which is scheduled for 5:30 p.m. ET on May 5, 2011. It can be accessed through Sunoco's website - www.SunocoInc.com. It is suggested that you visit the site prior to the teleconference to ensure that you have downloaded any necessary software.
Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions by the Company concerning future conditions, any or all of which ultimately may prove to be inaccurate, and upon the current knowledge, beliefs and expectations of Company management. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and involve significant known and unknown risks and uncertainties (many of which are beyond the control of the Company) that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in this release.
Such risks and uncertainties include economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting the Company's business, as well as uncertainties related to the outcomes of pending or future litigation, legislation, or regulatory actions. Among such risks are: changes in crude oil or natural gas prices, refining, marketing and chemicals margins, or other market conditions affecting the oil and gas industry; higher-than-expected costs of, or delays in, planned development or completion of repair projects, capital projects, acquisitions, or dispositions;
 
operational interruptions, unforeseen technical difficulties and/or changes in technical or operating conditions; general domestic and international economic and political conditions, wars and acts of terrorism or sabotage; the outcome of commercial negotiations; the actions of competitors or regulators; the competitiveness of alternate-energy sources or product substitutes; technological developments; liability resulting from pending or future litigation; significant investment or product changes and/or liability for remedial actions or assessments under existing or future environmental regulations; gains and losses related to the acquisition, disposition or impairment of assets; recapitalizations; access to, or significantly higher costs of, capital; the effects of changes in accounting rules applicable to the Company; and changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations applicable to the Company's businesses. Unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this release also could have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements.
In accordance with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company has included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and in its subsequent Form 10-Q and Form 8-K filings, cautionary language identifying other important factors (though not necessarily all such factors) that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. For more information concerning these factors, see the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, available on the Company's website at www.SunocoInc.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



