FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20110203165603.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The press release announcing the financial results for the Company's 2010 fourth quarter is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and 7.01 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
On February 3, 2011, Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's 2010 fourth quarter. Additional information concerning the Company's fourth quarter earnings, presented to investors in a teleconference call on February 3, 2011, is contained in a copy of the slide presentation attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
SUNOCO 4Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 1
 
Sunoco, Inc.
1818 Market Street
Philadelphia, Pa. 19103-3717
 
PHILADELPHIA, February 3, 2011  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) today reported net income attributable to Sunoco shareholders of $87 million ($0.72 per share diluted) for the fourth quarter of 2010 versus net income attributable to Sunoco shareholders of $26 million ($0.22 per share diluted) for the fourth quarter of 2009. Excluding special items, Sunoco had income of $13 million ($0.11 per share diluted) for the fourth quarter of 2010 versus a 2009 fourth quarter loss of $31 million ($.27 per share diluted). Key fourth quarter details include:
 
For full year 2010, Sunoco reported net income attributable to Sunoco shareholders of $234 million ($1.95 per share diluted) versus a net loss attributable to Sunoco shareholders of $329 million ($2.81 per share diluted) for the full year 2009.
"Market conditions have shown some improvement year-over-year, but challenges remain. U.S. demand growth is modest, refining capacity continues to be added around the world, and product inventories are high," said Lynn L. Elsenhans, Sunoco's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "While it is clear we continue to face headwinds and have also experienced some recent operational reliability issues that must be addressed, we are pleased to have made progress during the quarter toward our strategic goals of growing our retail network and separating our coke business."
Commenting on what the company accomplished last year and the outlook for 2011, Elsenhans said, "Overall, Sunoco made excellent progress during 2010. We finished the year with $1.5 billion in cash,
 
SUNOCO 4Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 2
 
achieved growth in our retail and logistics businesses and improved the competitiveness of our refineries. We also made significant progress in preparing to separate our coke business, a step designed to unlock shareholder value and maximize the future success of both Sunoco and SunCoke Energy.
"Looking ahead to 2011, we will continue to execute a strategy that positions Sunoco to become the premier provider of transportation fuels in its markets. This strategy includes pursuing growth in retail and logistics, where potential returns are highest, while continuing to run our manufacturing facilities efficiently, reliably and safely," Elsenhans continued.
UPDATE ON SUNCOKE ENERGY
As previously announced, SunCoke Energy and ArcelorMittal have reached a settlement that resolves the lawsuit concerning coke pricing for the Jewell facility. The settlement agreement is effective retroactively to January 1, 2011. Sunoco intends to move forward with the planned separation of SunCoke Energy.
DETAILS OF FOURTH QUARTER RESULTS
FUELS BUSINESS RESULTS
Refining and Supply- Continuing Operations
Refining and Supply had a loss from continuing operations of $8 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 versus a loss of $135 million in the fourth quarter of 2009. The improved results were primarily due to higher realized margins and lower expenses, partially offset by lower production volumes. The overall crude utilization rate was 85 percent for the quarter, down from 94 percent in the third quarter of 2010 primarily as a result of unplanned maintenance. Lower expenses were largely the result of cost reductions related to ongoing business improvement initiatives and the closure of the Eagle Point refinery in the fourth quarter of 2009.
 
SUNOCO 4Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 3
 
Retail Marketing
Retail Marketing earned $3 million in the current quarter versus $21 million in the fourth quarter of 2009. The decrease in earnings was largely due to lower average retail gasoline and distillate margins which were impacted by the increase in crude prices during the quarter, partially offset by higher sales volumes.
Logistics
Logistics earned $23 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 versus $22 million in the fourth quarter of 2009. The improvement in results was primarily driven by higher lease acquisition results due to higher contango profits.
Chemicals- Continuing Operations
Chemicals reported income from continuing operations of $4 million in the fourth quarters of 2010 and 2009 as the impact of higher sales volumes was offset by higher expenses and lower margins.
Chemicals- Discontinued Operations
Discontinued polypropylene operations, which were divested on March 31, 2010, had income of $2 million in the fourth quarter of 2009.
COKE BUSINESS RESULTS
Coke earned $21 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 versus $78 million in the fourth quarter of 2009. The decrease in earnings was primarily attributable to the absence of a one-time $41 million investment tax credit in 2009 attributable to the startup of the Gateway cokemaking facility and lower results from the Jewell coal and coke and Indiana Harbor operations. Partially offsetting these negative factors were higher results from the Haverhill and Gateway operations. The decline at the Jewell operations was primarily due to lower coal prices. The improvement at the Haverhill and Gateway operations was driven by higher margins and volumes.
OTHER
Corporate administrative expenses were $13 million after tax in the fourth quarter of 2010 versus $6 million after tax in the fourth quarter of 2009. Corporate expenses increased primarily due to higher incentive compensation expenses and start-up costs associated with outsourcing and other corporate initiatives.
Net Financing Expenses and Other  Net financing expenses and other were $17 million after tax in the fourth quarters of 2010 and 2009.
 
SUNOCO 4Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 4
 
SPECIAL ITEMS
During the fourth quarter of 2010, Sunoco recognized a $100 million after-tax gain from the liquidation of crude oil and refined product LIFO inventories primarily resulting from the permanent shutdown of the Eagle Point Refinery in the fourth quarter of 2009; recorded a $14 million after-tax provision primarily for additional asset write-downs attributable to a decline in the fair market value of certain assets of the Eagle Point refinery; and recorded a $12 million after-tax provision for pension settlement losses and accruals for employee terminations and related costs in connection with ongoing business improvement initiatives. The total net impact of special items during the fourth quarter of 2010 was income of $74 million after tax.
During the fourth quarter of 2009, Sunoco recorded a $21 million after-tax favorable adjustment to the gain related to the divestment of the discontinued Tulsa operations; recorded a $55 million after-tax gain from the liquidation of refined product LIFO inventories in connection with the shutdown of the Eagle Point refinery; and recorded a $19 million after-tax provision for costs associated with MTBE litigation as well as additional charges associated with the Eagle Point shutdown and the business improvement initiative. The total net impact of special items during the fourth quarter of 2009 was income of $57 million after tax.
Sunoco is a leading transportation fuel provider, with operations located primarily in the East Coast and Midwest regions of the United States. The Company operates more than 4,900 branded retail locations that market transportation fuels and convenience store merchandise in 23 states. The retail network is principally supplied by Sunoco-owned refineries with a combined crude oil processing capacity of 675,000 barrels per day. Sunoco is also the General Partner and has a 31-percent interest in Sunoco Logistics Partners, L.P., a publicly traded master limited partnership which owns and operates 7,600 miles of refined product and crude oil pipelines and approximately 40 active product terminals. Many of Sunoco Logistics' pipelines and terminals and storage facilities are integrated with Sunoco's retail network and refineries. Through SunCoke Energy, Sunoco makes high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for major steel manufacturers. The company's facilities in the U.S. have the capacity to manufacture approximately 3.67 million tons of metallurgical-grade coke annually. Sunoco also is the operator of, and has an equity interest in, a 1.7 million tons-per-year cokemaking facility in Vitria, Brazil.
Anyone interested in obtaining further insights into the fourth quarter's results can monitor the Company's quarterly teleconference call, which is scheduled for 5:30 p.m. ET on February 3, 2011. It can be accessed through Sunoco's website - www.SunocoInc.com. It is suggested that you visit the site prior to the teleconference to ensure that you have downloaded any necessary software.
Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are based
 
SUNOCO 4Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 5
 
upon assumptions by the Company concerning future conditions, any or all of which ultimately may prove to be inaccurate, and upon the current knowledge, beliefs and expectations of Company management. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and involve significant known and unknown risks and uncertainties (many of which are beyond the control of the Company) that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in this release.
Such risks and uncertainties include economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting the Company's business, as well as uncertainties related to the outcomes of pending or future litigation, legislation, or regulatory actions. Among such risks are: changes in crude oil or natural gas prices, refining, marketing and chemicals margins, or other market conditions affecting the oil and gas industry; higher-than-expected costs of, or delays in, planned development or completion of repair projects, capital projects, acquisitions, or dispositions; operational interruptions, unforeseen technical difficulties and/or changes in technical or operating conditions; general domestic and international economic and political conditions, wars and acts of terrorism or sabotage; the outcome of commercial negotiations; the actions of competitors or regulators; the competitiveness of alternate-energy sources or product substitutes; technological developments; liability resulting from pending or future litigation; significant investment or product changes and/or liability for remedial actions or assessments under existing or future environmental regulations; gains and losses related to the acquisition, disposition or impairment of assets; recapitalizations; access to, or significantly higher costs of, capital; the effects of changes in accounting rules applicable to the Company; and changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations applicable to the Company's businesses. Unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this release also could have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements.
In accordance with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company has included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 and in its subsequent Form 10-Q and Form 8-K filings, cautionary language identifying other important factors (though not necessarily all such factors) that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. For more information concerning these factors, see the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, available on the Company's website at www.SunocoInc.com.
 
SUNOCO 4Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 6
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 7
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 8
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 9
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 10
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 11
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 12
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 13
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 14
 
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 15
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 16
 
 
 
SUNOCO 4Q10 EARNINGS, PAGE 17
 
 
 



