FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20110804161934.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The press release announcing the financial results for Sunoco, Inc.'s 2011 second quarter is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and 7.01 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
On August 4, 2011, Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's 2011 second quarter. Additional information concerning the Company's second quarter earnings, presented to investors in a teleconference call on August 4, 2011, is contained in a copy of the slide presentation attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
PHILADELPHIA, August 4, 2011  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) today reported a net loss attributable to Sunoco shareholders of $125 million ($1.03 per share diluted) for the second quarter of 2011 versus net income attributable to Sunoco shareholders of $145 million ($1.20 per share diluted) for the second quarter of 2010. Excluding special items, Sunoco had income of $49 million ($0.40 per share diluted) for the second quarter of 2011 versus income of $158 million ($1.31 per share diluted) for the second quarter of 2010. Key second quarter details include:
 
 
 
 
"The company's operations excluding special items were profitable on the strength of our logistics and retail segments. Sunoco Logistics Partners, L.P. had its best quarter ever and our logistics segment contributed $54 million to Sunoco's earnings. Likewise, our retail segment also contributed strong earnings that approached a record for second quarter results. In Refining and Supply, our ability to take advantage of margin improvement was limited by low utilization that continued into April from the first quarter's operational events. With the reliability issues addressed, Refining and Supply was profitable in May and June," said Lynn L. Elsenhans, Sunoco's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "We continue to adjust our portfolio of assets to deliver value to shareholders. In our logistics segment, Sunoco Logistics Partners has announced more than $450 million in acquisitions this year, including the July announcement of the acquisition of Texon's lease crude business."
 
Commenting on the coke business, Elsenhans said, "SunCoke Energy's successful initial public offering marks the culmination of more than a year's worth of planning. Sunoco currently retains an 81-percent ownership of SunCoke and expects to distribute its common stock holdings to Sunoco shareholders within a year. We remain focused on delivering value to shareholders."
DETAILS OF SECOND QUARTER RESULTS
FUELS BUSINESS RESULTS
Refining and Supply
Refining and Supply had a pretax loss of $44 million in the current quarter versus income of $138 million in the second quarter of 2010. The $182 million decrease in results was primarily due to lower realized margins and production volumes, partially offset by lower expenses. The overall crude utilization rate was 84 percent for the quarter, up from 74 percent in the first quarter of 2011.
Retail Marketing
Retail Marketing earned $69 million pretax in the current quarter versus $73 million in the second quarter of 2010. The decrease in earnings was primarily due to higher expenses which were largely the result of higher credit card fees at company-operated locations as a result of increased retail prices and the absence of a favorable litigation settlement in 2010. The higher expenses were partially offset by higher average retail gasoline and distillate margins.
Logistics
Logistics earned $54 million pretax in the second quarter of 2011 versus $30 million in the second quarter of 2010. The improvement in results was primarily due to expanded crude oil volumes and margins which benefited from market-related opportunities and higher earnings attributable to recent acquisitions and organic growth projects.
In May 2011, Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. obtained an 84-percent interest in Inland Corporation through a series of transactions involving Sunoco and a third party. Sunoco exercised its rights to acquire additional ownership interests and the Partnership purchased additional ownership interests from third parties for a total of $86 million.
In June 2011, the Partnership announced that it had signed a definitive agreement to purchase a refined products terminal located in East Boston, MA from ConocoPhillips for $56 million plus the fair value of inventory. The transaction is expected to be completed in the third quarter of 2011.
In July 2011, the Partnership issued 1.3 million deferred distribution units valued at $98 million and paid $2 million in cash to Sunoco in exchange for the tank farm and related assets located at the Eagle Point refinery.
 
In August 2011, the Partnership acquired a crude oil purchasing and marketing business from Texon L.P. for $205 million plus the fair value of inventory.
Chemicals - Continuing Operations
Chemicals earned $6 million pretax in the second quarter of 2011 versus $7 million in the second quarter of 2010.
In July 2011, Sunoco completed the sale of its phenol and acetone chemicals manufacturing facility in Philadelphia, PA ("Frankford Facility") and related inventory to an affiliate of Honeywell International Inc. Sunoco received total cash proceeds of $87 million which is subject to an inventory adjustment subsequent to closing. In connection with this agreement, Sunoco recorded a $118 million pretax provision to write down the Frankford Facility assets to their estimated fair values during the second quarter of 2011 which has been treated as a special item.
COKE BUSINESS RESULTS
Coke earned $20 million pretax in the second quarter of 2011 versus $56 million in the second quarter of 2010. The decrease in earnings was attributable to lower coke sales revenues as a result of the Jewell contract restructuring with ArcelorMittal in January 2011 and higher general and administrative costs largely associated with the relocation of SunCoke Energy's corporate offices and additional staffing costs related to becoming a public company.
An initial public offering ("IPO") of 13.34 million shares (after exercise of the underwriters' over-allotment option) of the outstanding common stock of SunCoke Energy, Inc. at a price of $16 per share was completed on July 26, 2011. Sunoco retains ownership of 81 percent of the outstanding shares of SunCoke Energy common stock. Sunoco intends to complete the separation of SunCoke Energy from Sunoco by distributing its remaining shares of SunCoke Energy common stock to Sunoco shareholders by means of a spin-off that is intended to qualify as a tax-free transaction. The spin-off is expected to occur no later than one year after the IPO.
OTHER
Corporate administrative expenses were $18 million pretax in the current quarter versus $30 million in the second quarter of 2010. The decrease was largely driven by lower one-time project costs as well as lower accruals for performance-related incentive compensation.
Net financing expenses and other were $16 million pretax in the second quarter of 2011 compared to $27 million in the second quarter of 2010. The decrease was primarily driven by higher interest income and capitalized interest as well as lower interest expense.
 
INCOME TAXES
Excluding the impact of special items, the effective tax rates on pretax income attributable to Sunoco, Inc. shareholders for the second quarter of 2011 and 2010 were 31 and 36 percent, respectively. The effective tax rates for each quarter were determined based upon the expected full year tax rates at the end of each quarter. The reduction in the effective rate in 2011 is largely attributable to the estimated impact of nonconventional fuel tax credits on lower expected pretax earnings.
SPECIAL ITEMS
During the second quarter of 2011, Sunoco recorded a $292 million provision ($174 million after tax) to write down assets primarily in the chemicals business to their estimated fair values; recorded a $2 million provision ($1 million after tax) for pension settlement losses in connection with business improvement initiatives; recognized pension settlement losses of $9 million ($5 million after tax) attributable to the divestment of its Toledo refinery; and recognized a $9 million gain ($6 million after tax) from the remeasurement of its pre-acquisition equity interests in Inland to fair value upon consolidation. The total net impact of special items during the second quarter of 2011 was a provision of $294 million ($174 million after tax).
During the second quarter of 2010, Sunoco recorded a $22 million provision ($13 million after tax) primarily for pension settlement losses and employee terminations and related costs in connection with business improvement initiatives.
Sunoco is a leading transportation fuel provider, with operations located primarily in the East Coast and Midwest regions of the United States. The Company sells transportation fuels through more than 4,900 branded retail locations in 24 states. APlus convenience stores are operated by the Company or independent dealers in more than 600 retail locations. The retail network in the Northeast is principally supplied by Sunoco-owned refineries with a combined crude oil processing capacity of 505,000 barrels per day. Sunoco is also the General Partner and has a 34-percent interest in Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P., a publicly traded master limited partnership which owns and operates 7,900 miles of refined product and crude oil pipelines and approximately 40 active product terminals. Sunoco has an 81-percent ownership interest in SunCoke Energy, Inc., a publicly traded company which makes high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for major steel manufacturers. SunCoke Energy has facilities in the U.S. which have the capacity to manufacture approximately 3.7 million tons of metallurgical-grade coke annually and is the operator of, and has an equity interest in, a 1.7 million tons-per-year cokemaking facility in Vitria, Brazil.
Anyone interested in obtaining further insights into the second quarter's results can monitor the Company's quarterly teleconference call, which is scheduled for 5:00 p.m. ET on August 4, 2011. It can be accessed through Sunoco's website - www.SunocoInc.com. It is suggested that you visit the site prior to the teleconference to ensure that you have downloaded any necessary software.
Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the
 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions by the Company concerning future conditions, any or all of which ultimately may prove to be inaccurate, and upon the current knowledge, beliefs and expectations of Company management. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and involve significant known and unknown risks and uncertainties (many of which are beyond the control of the Company) that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in this release.
Such risks and uncertainties include economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting the Company's business, as well as uncertainties related to the outcomes of pending or future litigation, legislation, or regulatory actions. Among such risks are: changes in crude oil or natural gas prices, refining, marketing and chemicals margins, or other market conditions affecting the oil and gas industry; higher-than-expected costs of, or delays in, planned development or completion of repair projects, capital projects, acquisitions, or dispositions; operational interruptions, unforeseen technical difficulties and/or changes in technical or operating conditions; general domestic and international economic and political conditions, wars and acts of terrorism or sabotage; the outcome of commercial negotiations; the actions of competitors or regulators; the competitiveness of alternate-energy sources or product substitutes; technological developments; liability resulting from pending or future litigation; significant investment or product changes and/or liability for remedial actions or assessments under existing or future environmental regulations; gains and losses related to the acquisition, disposition or impairment of assets; recapitalizations; access to, or significantly higher costs of, capital; the effects of changes in accounting rules applicable to the Company; and changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations applicable to the Company's businesses. Unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this release also could have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements.
In accordance with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company has included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and in its subsequent Form 10-Q and Form 8-K filings, cautionary language identifying other important factors (though not necessarily all such factors) that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. For more information concerning these factors, see the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, available on the Company's website at www.SunocoInc.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



