FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20110519094637.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Material Impairments	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 18, 2011, Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") announced that it reached an agreement to sell its one billion pounds per year phenol and acetone manufacturing facility in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to Honeywell. The Company will sell the facility and product inventory attributable to the facility for a combined purchase price of approximately $85 million. The product inventory will be valued at market prices at closing. The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and customary closing conditions, and is expected to be completed in the third quarter of 2011.
The Company expects to incur pretax charges, which are primarily non-cash, of approximately $125- $150 million, related to the sale primarily in the second quarter of 2011. The Company currently is evaluating other cash exit costs associated with this transaction, including severance costs. However, the Company does not expect any such charges or future cash expenditures to be material.
Attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the Company's related press release dated May 18, 2011, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
As discussed above, under Item 2.05 of this report, the Company expects to incur pretax charges of approximately $125-$150 million, primarily in the second quarter of 2011 related to the sale of its phenol and acetone manufacturing facility in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The Company currently is evaluating other cash exit costs associated with this transaction, including severance costs. However, the Company does not expect any such charges or future cash expenditures to be material.
Attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the Company's related press release dated May 18, 2011, which is incorporated by reference herein.
 
99.1 - Sunoco, Inc. Press Release, dated May 18, 2011.
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in this report, or the exhibits to this report, that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Sunoco, Inc.
1818 Market Street
Philadelphia, PA 19103-7583
For further information contact
Thomas Golembeski (media) 215-977-6298
Clare McGrory (investors) 215-977-6764
Philadelphia, May 18, 2011  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) announced today that it has reached a definitive agreement to sell its one billion pounds per year phenol and acetone manufacturing facility in Philadelphia, Pa. to Honeywell. Sunoco will sell the facility and the estimated value of the product inventory attributable to the facility for a combined purchase price of approximately $85 million. The product inventory will be valued at market prices at closing. The company is expected to incur pretax charges, which are primarily non-cash, of approximately $125-$150 million related to the sale primarily in the second quarter of 2011.
The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and customary closing conditions and is expected to be completed in the third quarter of 2011.
"The sale of Sunoco's Frankford phenol manufacturing facility is another step in our efforts to unlock value for shareholders by divesting certain non-core assets and focusing on our retail and logistics businesses. These businesses are generating significant value today and represent strong opportunities for future growth," said Lynn L. Elsenhans, Sunoco's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "We are grateful to the talented and dedicated employees at Frankford for their years of service to Sunoco."
Sunoco is a leading transportation fuel provider with operations located primarily in the East Coast and Midwest regions of the United States. The company sells transportation fuels through more than 4,900 branded retail locations in 23 states. APlus convenience stores are operated by the company or independent dealers in more than 600 retail locations. The retail network in the Northeast is principally supplied by Sunoco-owned refineries with a combined crude oil processing capacity of 505,000 barrels per day. Sunoco is also the General Partner and has a 31-percent interest in Sunoco Logistics Partners, L.P., a publicly traded master limited partnership which owns and operates 7,600 miles of refined product and crude oil pipelines and approximately 40 active product terminals. Through SunCoke Energy, Sunoco makes high-quality metallurgical-grade coke for major steel manufacturers. The company's facilities in the U.S. have the capacity to manufacture approximately 3.7 million tons of metallurgical-grade coke annually. Sunoco also is the operator of, and has an equity interest in, a 1.7 million tons-per-year coke-making facility in Vitria, Brazil.


