FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20120913171905.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 8, 2012, Sunoco, Inc. ("Sunoco" or the "Company") completed the exit from its Northeast refining operations by contributing the refining assets at its Philadelphia, PA refinery and various commercial contracts to Philadelphia Energy Solutions ("PES"), a joint venture with The Carlyle Group, L.P. ("The Carlyle Group"). Under the terms of the joint venture agreement, The Carlyle Group will hold the controlling interest and will oversee day-to-day operations of the joint venture and the refinery. In exchange for contributing its refinery assets to the joint venture, Sunoco retained a 33 percent non-operating minority interest. Sunoco also permanently idled the main refining processing units at its Marcus Hook, PA refinery in June 2012. The Marcus Hook facility continued to support operations at the Philadelphia refinery prior to commencement of the PES joint venture.
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and incorporated herein by this reference, is a copy of Sunoco's press release dated September 8, 2012, announcing the formation of PES and the completion of Sunoco's exit from its Northeast refining operations.
 
 
Unaudited pro forma financial information of Sunoco to give effect to the exit from its Northeast refining operations is included in Exhibit 99.2 filed herewith and incorporated by reference into this Item 9.01.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For further information contact
Thomas Golembeski (media) 215-977-6298
Clare McGrory (investors) 215-977-6764
PHILADELPHIA(BUSINESS WIRE)Sept.8, 2012Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) and The Carlyle Group, L.P. (NASDAQ: CG) have completed the formation of Philadelphia Energy Solutions, a joint venture that will operate the Philadelphia Refinery. The refinery processes 330,000 barrels of crude oil per day into various refined products.
Under the terms of the joint venture agreement, The Carlyle Group will hold the controlling interest and will oversee day-to-day operations of the joint venture and the refinery. In exchange for contributing its refinery assets to the joint venture, Sunoco retained a 33 percent non-operating minority interest.
Brian P. MacDonald, chairman and chief executive officer of Sunoco, Inc., said: "We are pleased to have facilitated a joint venture with The Carlyle Group which will save existing jobs, create new jobs, and provide additional business opportunities in Pennsylvania."
Sunoco
Sunoco is a leading logistics and retail company. The company owns the general partner interest in Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. (NYSE: SXL), which consists of a two percent ownership interest and incentive distribution rights, and owns a 32 percent interest in the Partnership's limited partner units. Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. is an owner and operator of complementary pipeline, terminal and crude oil acquisition and marketing assets. Sunoco also has a network of approximately 4,900 retail locations in 23 states.
SAFE HARBOR FOR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions by Sunoco concerning future conditions, any or all of which ultimately may prove to be inaccurate, and upon the current knowledge, beliefs and expectations of Sunoco management. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Sunoco expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and involve significant known and unknown risks and uncertainties (many of which are beyond Sunoco's control) that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in this release.
Such risks and uncertainties include economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting Sunoco's business, as well as uncertainties related to the outcomes of pending or future litigation, legislation, or regulatory actions. Among such risks are: changes in crude oil or natural gas prices, refining, marketing and chemicals margins, or other market conditions affecting the oil and gas industry; higher-than-expected costs of, or delays in, planned development or completion of repair projects, capital projects, acquisitions, or dispositions; operational interruptions, unforeseen technical difficulties and/or changes in technical or operating conditions; general domestic and international economic and political conditions, wars and acts of terrorism or sabotage; the outcome of commercial negotiations; the actions of competitors or regulators; the competitiveness of alternate-energy sources or product substitutes; technological developments; liability resulting from pending or future litigation; significant investment or product changes and/or liability for remedial actions or assessments under existing or future environmental regulations; gains and losses related to the acquisition, disposition or impairment of assets; recapitalizations; access to, or significantly higher costs of, capital; the effects of changes in accounting rules applicable to Sunoco; and changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations applicable to Sunoco's businesses. Unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this release also could have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements.
In accordance with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Sunoco has included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and in its subsequent Form 10-Q and Form 8-K filings, cautionary language identifying other important factors (though not necessarily all such factors) that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. For more information concerning these factors, see Sunoco's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, available on Sunoco's website at .
http://www.SunocoInc.com

Exhibit 99.2
On September 8, 2012, Sunoco, Inc. ("Sunoco" or the "Company") completed the exit from its Northeast refining operations by contributing the refining assets at its Philadelphia, PA refinery and various commercial contracts to Philadelphia Energy Solutions ("PES"), a joint venture with The Carlyle Group, L.P. ("The Carlyle Group"). Sunoco also permanently idled the main refining processing units at its Marcus Hook, PA refinery in June 2012. The Marcus Hook facility continued to support operations at the Philadelphia refinery prior to commencement of the PES joint venture.
Under the terms of the joint venture agreement, The Carlyle Group contributed cash in exchange for a 67 percent controlling interest in PES. In exchange for contributing its Philadelphia refinery assets and various commercial contracts to the joint venture, Sunoco retained a 33 percent non-operating minority interest. The Carlyle Group will oversee day-to-day operations of PES and the refinery. JPMorgan Chase will provide working capital financing to PES in the form of an asset-backed loan, supply crude oil and other feedstocks to the refinery at the time of processing and purchase certain blendstocks and all finished refined products as they are processed. Sunoco entered into a ten-year supply contract for gasoline and diesel produced at the refinery for its retail marketing business. As a result of the continuing involvement with PES through its 33 percent interest and the supply agreement, which will represent approximately 50 percent of the refinery's total production, the results of the Northeast refining operations will not be presented as discontinued operations in Sunoco's consolidated financial statements.
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information of Sunoco presented below was derived from Sunoco's historical consolidated financial statements and is being presented to illustrate the impacts of the exit from its Northeast refining operations. The unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of continuing operations give effect to the exit as if it had occurred on January 1, 2011. The unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet assumes the exit occurred on June 30, 2012.
The pro forma adjustments are based on the best information available and assumptions that management believes are factually supportable and reasonable. The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information is for illustrative and informational purposes only and is not intended to reflect what Sunoco's financial position and results of continuing operations would have been had the exit from its Northeast refining operations occurred on the dates indicated and is not necessarily indicative of Sunoco's future financial position or future results of operations. The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information reflects the elimination of certain allocated historical costs of the Northeast refining operations that were estimated based upon assumptions and allocations which management believes are reasonable. While management expects that these costs will not be incurred by Sunoco after the exit from the Northeast refining operations, it is possible that some of these costs will continue to be incurred in future periods. In addition, the unaudited pro forma statements of continuing operations reflect equity income (loss) from the PES joint venture which includes depreciation, depletion and amortization expense based upon the estimated fair market value of PES depreciable assets as well as projected costs associated with financing arrangements entered into by PES. The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information does not reflect any other potential cost savings that may be realized by the Company as a result of the exit from its Northeast refining operations, the potential impact of changes in the manufacturing or commercial operations of the Philadelphia refinery on Sunoco's equity income (loss) from the PES joint venture or potential additional provisions which may be incurred, primarily related to the modification or termination of existing contracts of the refining business which were not assumed by, or will require restructuring for, PES and pension settlement costs which would be recognized when employees of the Philadelphia and Marcus Hook refineries receive pension lump sum payments as these amounts and/or the timing of such charges cannot be reliably estimated. Furthermore, the unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2012 does not reflect adjustments for reductions in accounts receivable and accounts payable (except for the repayment of amounts due for crude oil inventories) as such amounts cannot be reliably estimated due to the potential impacts of the exit from Northeast refining on Sunoco's remaining business; however, the net impact on cash and cash equivalents of such changes in accounts receivable and accounts payable is not expected to be material. The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information should be read in conjunction with Sunoco's historical financial statements and accompanying notes which are contained in the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012 and Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 22, 2012.
 
 
 
 
 


