FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20120123171034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 17, 2012, Sunoco, Inc. ("Sunoco") announced that it had completed the spin-off of SunCoke Energy, Inc. ("") by means of a special stock dividend of 56,660,000 shares of SunCoke common stock (the "") that Sunoco owned to Sunoco's shareholders of record as of the close of business on January 5, 2012 (the "Record Date"). Each of the holders of Sunoco's common stock received 0.53046456 of a share of SunCoke common stock for each outstanding share of Sunoco common stock they owned as of the Record Date. No fractional shares of SunCoke common stock were distributed. Instead, Sunoco shareholders will receive cash in lieu of any fraction of a share of SunCoke common stock that they otherwise would have received.
SunCoke
Distribution
In the aggregate, Sunoco distributed 56,660,000 shares of SunCoke common stock to Sunoco's shareholders. Based on the closing price of shares of SunCoke common stock of $13.40 per share on January 17, 2012, the aggregate market value of the shares distributed was approximately $759 million. Sunoco has obtained a private letter ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service to the effect that the distribution by Sunoco of the shares of SunCoke common stock held by Sunoco to shareholders will qualify for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a distribution in which Sunoco shareholders will not recognize gain or loss, except with respect to any cash received in lieu of fractional shares of SunCoke common stock.
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and incorporated herein by this reference, is a copy of Sunoco's press release dated January 17, 2012, announcing the completion of the Distribution.
 
 
Unaudited pro forma financial information of Sunoco to give effect to the Distribution is included in Exhibit 99.2 filed herewith and incorporated by reference into this Item 9.01.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For further information contact
Thomas Golembeski (media) 215-977-6298
Clare McGrory (investors) 215-977-6764
PHILADELPHIA - January 17, 2012 - Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) today completed the distribution to its shareholders of 56,660,000 shares of common stock of SunCoke Energy, Inc. (NYSE: SXC) owned by Sunoco. After the completion of the distribution, Sunoco no longer owns any common stock of SunCoke.
The distribution by Sunoco was made today, in the form of a common stock dividend, of its equity interest in SunCoke to all Sunoco shareholders of record on January 5, 2012. Sunoco shareholders will receive 0.53046456 of a share of SunCoke common stock, in book-entry form, for every share of Sunoco common stock held as of the close of business on January 5, 2012. No fractional shares of SunCoke common stock were distributed. Instead, Sunoco shareholders will receive cash in lieu of any fraction of a share of SunCoke common stock that they otherwise would have received.
pro rata
About Sunoco
Sunoco is a leading transportation fuel provider with a network of branded retail locations in 24 states. The company is also the General Partner of and has a 34 percent interest in Sunoco Logistics Partners, L.P. (NYSE: SXL) an owner and operator of pipelines and product terminals.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements made in the foregoing release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions by Sunoco concerning future conditions, any or all of which ultimately may prove to be inaccurate, and upon the current knowledge, beliefs and expectations of Sunoco's management.
 
The reader should not place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and involve significant risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in this release. Such risks and uncertainties include economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting Sunoco's business, as well as uncertainties related to the outcomes of pending or future litigation, legislation, or regulatory actions. Unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this release also could have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements.
In accordance with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Sunoco has included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and in its subsequent Form 10-Q and Form 8-K filings, cautionary language identifying important factors (though not necessarily all such factors) that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. For more information concerning these factors, see Sunoco's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, available on Sunoco's website at www.sunocoinc.com. Sunoco expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 

Exhibit 99.2
Sunoco, Inc. ("Sunoco") contributed its cokemaking and coal mining operations to SunCoke Energy, Inc. on July 18, 2011. (Throughout these pro forma financial statements, SunCoke Energy, Inc. and its predecessor entities, which made up Sunoco's cokemaking and coal mining operations, will be referred to as SunCoke). Effective with the closing of an initial public offering (the "IPO") of SunCoke's common stock on July 26, 2011, Sunoco had an 81-percent interest in SunCoke. On January 17, 2012, Sunoco completed the spin-off of its remaining interest in SunCoke by means of a special stock dividend of 56,660,000 shares of SunCoke common stock (the "Distribution"). Sunoco stockholders of record as of the close of business on January 5, 2012 (the "Record Date") received 0.53046456 of a share of SunCoke common stock for every common share of Sunoco stock held as of the Record Date.
Prior to the completion of the IPO, Sunoco and SunCoke entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement and other agreements that govern the post-IPO relationship. These agreements allow for a settlement process surrounding the transfer of certain assets and liabilities, for which future adjustments could occur as these transfers are resolved.
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information of Sunoco presented below was derived from Sunoco's historical consolidated financial statements and is being presented to give effect to the spin-off of SunCoke. The unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of continuing operations give effect to the spin-off of SunCoke as if the spin-off occurred on January 1, 2008. The unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet assumes the spin-off of SunCoke occurred on September 30, 2011. SunCoke will be reported as a discontinued operation beginning with Sunoco's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012.
In connection with the contribution of Sunoco's cokemaking and coal operations to SunCoke and SunCoke's issuance of approximately $700 million of long-term debt, Sunoco received $575 million of cash for the repayment of certain intercompany obligations of SunCoke in July 2011. As the cash received by Sunoco was not designated for any specific purpose, there are no pro forma adjustments to reflect potential uses for this cash and no interest income was assumed.
The pro forma adjustments are based on the best information available and assumptions that management believes are factually supportable. The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information is for illustrative and informational purposes only and is not intended to reflect what Sunoco's financial position and results of operations would have been had the spin-off occurred on the dates indicated and is not necessarily indicative of Sunoco's future financial position and future results of operations. The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information should be read in conjunction with Sunoco's historical financial statements and accompanying notes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


