FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20120202161155.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The press release announcing the preliminary pretax financial results for the Company's 2011 fourth quarter is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. These results are preliminary and shown on a pretax basis due to income tax amounts that have yet to be finalized. The Company expects to report after-tax financial results, including accompanying financial information, during the week of February 6, 2012. The Company does not expect material changes to pretax results as reported.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On February 2, 2012, Sunoco, Inc. (the "") announced the following:
Company
 
 
 
A copy of the Company's press release on these matters is filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
In addition to the management changes described in the foregoing Item 5.02, the Company also announced that it will focus on its high-return logistics and retail businesses and undertake a series of initiatives intended to improve financial and strategic flexibility. The Company also provided an update on the sales process for its Philadelphia and Marcus Hook, PA refineries.
A copy of the Company's press release on these matters is filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
PHILADELPHIA, February 2, 2012  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) today reported a net pretax loss attributable to Sunoco shareholders of $660 million for the fourth quarter of 2011 versus pretax income attributable to Sunoco shareholders of $119 million for the fourth quarter of 2010. Excluding special items, Sunoco had a pretax loss of $48 million for the fourth quarter of 2011 versus a pretax loss of $4 million for the fourth quarter of 2010. These results are preliminary and shown on a pretax basis due to income tax amounts that have yet to be finalized. The Company expects to report after-tax financial results, including accompanying financial information, during the week of February 6, 2012. The Company does not expect material changes to pretax results as reported. Sunoco today issued a separate press release announcing strategic initiatives and management changes. Key fourth quarter details include:
 
 
 
 
"Our high-return logistics and retail segments continue to deliver excellent results. Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. had record earnings in the fourth quarter and contributed $66 million in pretax income to Sunoco. Similarly, our retail segment earned $40 million pretax," said Lynn L. Elsenhans, Sunoco's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "In contrast, our refining and supply segment reported a pretax loss of $117 million, which reflects the very difficult market conditions that led to the early idling of the Marcus Hook refinery."
Commenting on the Company's commitment to delivering value to shareholders, Elsenhans said, "We recently completed the separation of SunCoke Energy from Sunoco through a special stock dividend that took place on January 17th. This action marks the end of Sunoco's ownership of SunCoke Energy and represents the culmination of nearly two years of work on behalf of shareholders. With that work complete, we will continue to look for ways to build value for shareholders and will take the steps necessary to ensure that is accomplished."
DETAILS OF PRELIMINARY FOURTH QUARTER PRETAX RESULTS
Logistics
Logistics earned $66 million pretax in the fourth quarter of 2011 versus $35 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. The increase in earnings was primarily due to higher crude oil sales volumes and margins which benefitted from market-related opportunities. Pipeline earnings benefitted from continued strong demand for crude oil in West Texas. Higher earnings attributable to recent acquisitions and organic growth projects also contributed to the improved results.
Retail Marketing
Retail Marketing earned $40 million pretax in the current quarter versus $1 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. The increase in earnings was primarily attributable to higher retail gasoline and distillate margins, partially offset by lower gasoline sales volumes.
Refining and Supply
Refining and Supply had a pretax loss of $117 million in the current quarter versus a $17 million pretax loss in the fourth quarter of 2010. The decrease in earnings was primarily the result of lower realized margins and production volumes. These negative factors were partially offset by lower expenses. Margins deteriorated throughout the fourth quarter during which market margins for gasoline were frequently negative. Margins were also impacted by high premiums for crude oil versus the Dated Brent crude oil benchmark. Production volumes were impacted by the idling of the Marcus Hook facility during the fourth quarter. The overall crude utilization rate was 81 percent for the quarter, down from 90 percent in the third quarter of 2011.
Coke
Coke earned $9 million pretax in the fourth quarter of 2011 versus $25 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. The decrease in earnings was largely attributable to lower coke sales revenues as a result of the Jewell contract restructuring with ArcelorMittal in January 2011, higher general and administrative costs largely associated with the relocation of SunCoke Energy's corporate offices and additional staffing costs related to becoming a public company and Sunoco's reduced ownership interest in SunCoke Energy.
Discontinued Chemicals Operations
Discontinued chemicals operations had pretax income of $3 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 versus $6 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
OTHER
Corporate administrative expenses were $17 million pretax in the current quarter versus $27 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. The decrease was largely driven by lower staffing and incentive compensation costs.
Net financing expenses and other were $32 million pretax in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to $27 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. Increased interest expense attributable to new borrowings of Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. and SunCoke Energy, Inc. was partially offset by higher interest income.
 
SPECIAL ITEMS
During the fourth quarter of 2011, Sunoco recorded a $387 million pretax noncash provision to write down assets at the Philadelphia and Marcus Hook refineries to their estimated fair values and recorded provisions for severance, contract terminations and idling expenses of $243 million pretax; recognized a $21 million pretax gain largely attributable to the liquidation of a portion of the refined product LIFO inventories related to the idling of the Marcus Hook refinery; and recorded a $3 million net pretax loss primarily related to prior divestments of its Toledo refinery and discontinued chemicals operations. The total net impact of special items during the fourth quarter of 2011 was a pretax charge of $612 million.
During the fourth quarter of 2010, Sunoco recognized a $168 million pretax gain from the liquidation of crude oil and refined product LIFO inventories primarily resulting from the permanent shutdown of the Eagle Point Refinery in the fourth quarter of 2009; recorded a $24 million pretax provision primarily for additional asset write-downs attributable to a decline in the fair market value of certain assets of the Eagle Point refinery; and recorded a $21 million pretax provision for pension settlement losses and accruals for employee terminations and related costs in connection with ongoing business improvement initiatives. The total net impact of special items during the fourth quarter of 2010 was pretax income of $123 million.
Sunoco is a leading logistics and retail company. The Company owns the general partner interest of Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. (NYSE: SXL), which consists of a 2-percent ownership interest and incentive distribution rights, and owns a 32-percent interest in the Partnership's limited partner units. Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. is an owner and operator of complementary pipeline, terminal and crude oil acquisition and marketing assets. Sunoco also has a network of approximately 4,900 retail locations in 23 states.
Anyone interested in obtaining further insights into the preliminary fourth quarter pretax results can monitor the Company's teleconference call, which is scheduled for 5:00 p.m. ET on February 2, 2012. It can be accessed through Sunoco's website - www.SunocoInc.com. It is suggested that you visit the site prior to the teleconference to ensure that you have downloaded any necessary software.
Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions by the Company concerning future conditions, any or all of which ultimately may prove to be inaccurate, and upon the current knowledge, beliefs and expectations of Company management. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and involve significant known and unknown risks and uncertainties (many of which are beyond the control of the Company) that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in this release.
Such risks and uncertainties include economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting the Company's business, as well as uncertainties related to the outcomes of pending or future litigation, legislation, or regulatory actions.
 
Among such risks are: changes in crude oil or natural gas prices, refining and marketing margins, or other market conditions affecting the oil and gas industry; higher-than-expected costs of, or delays in, planned development or completion of repair projects, capital projects, acquisitions, or dispositions; operational interruptions, unforeseen technical difficulties and/or changes in technical or operating conditions; general domestic and international economic and political conditions, wars and acts of terrorism or sabotage; the outcome of commercial negotiations; the actions of competitors or regulators; the competitiveness of alternate-energy sources or product substitutes; technological developments; liability resulting from pending or future litigation; significant investment or product changes and/or liability for remedial actions or assessments under existing or future environmental regulations; gains and losses related to the acquisition, disposition or impairment of assets; recapitalizations; access to, or significantly higher costs of, capital; the effects of changes in accounting rules applicable to the Company; and changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations applicable to the Company's businesses. Unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this release also could have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements.
In accordance with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company has included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and in its subsequent Form 10-Q and Form 8-K filings, cautionary language identifying other important factors (though not necessarily all such factors) that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. For more information concerning these factors, see the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, available on the Company's website at www.SunocoInc.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
Sunoco, Inc.
1818 Market Street
Philadelphia, PA 19103-7583
For further information contact:
Thomas Golembeski (media) 215-977-6298
Clare McGrory (investors) 215-977-6764
PHILADELPHIA, February 2, 2012  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) announced it will focus on its high-return logistics and retail businesses and undertake a series of initiatives to improve its financial and strategic flexibility to better position itself to deliver sustainable value to shareholders. The initiatives are intended to improve future earnings potential, limit future liabilities and provide Sunoco with a well-positioned financial and operational platform as well as an expense structure that is comparable to companies in the logistics and retail space.
The initiatives include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sunoco's board and senior management, in consultation with independent financial and legal advisors, considered a wide range of strategic alternatives intended to deliver enhanced shareholder value. The initiatives announced today position Sunoco for growth and success while providing Sunoco with strategic and financial flexibility for the future.
Management Changes
In light of the company's exit from manufacturing and its go-forward strategy, the following management changes were announced:
 
 
 
Regarding the management changes, Presiding Director John P. Jones said, "Lynn Elsenhans has led Sunoco through one of the most significant periods of change in the Company's history. With her deep expertise in manufacturing, Lynn has been instrumental in driving portfolio actions to reposition the company. Under her leadership, Lynn has overseen the sale of Sunoco's heating oil and chemical businesses, the spin-off of SunCoke Energy, and the exit of the refining business, representing two-thirds of Sunoco's assets since the time Lynn joined the company in 2008. While very difficult for employees and other Sunoco stakeholders, the restructuring was absolutely necessary to provide for a sustainable future for the Company and its stakeholders. We value Lynn's insight and leadership, and on behalf of the Board, I want to thank her for her service and wish her all the best in her future endeavors."
Jones continued, "Brian MacDonald is a superb executive who is the ideal leader for Sunoco as we move from a manufacturing to a logistics and retail focus. He has played a leading role in Sunoco's transformation, and the Board is confident that his vision, commitment to unlocking shareholder value, decisiveness, financial acumen, and track record of results make him the right leader for the company, its shareholders and other stakeholders as we move forward. Under Brian's leadership, the company will continue to look for ways to optimize the value of Sunoco for its shareholders, beginning with the initiatives announced today."
MacDonald said, "This is a very important time for everyone at Sunoco, and I appreciate the Board's confidence. The financial and strategic actions announced today are the result of a thorough analysis on how to make the best use of our capital, establish the right financial and operational structure for our business going forward and position us to deliver immediate and long-term value to our shareholders. Sunoco will be a stronger company focused on our established high-return logistics and retail businesses. In addition to steady ratable cash flows, our logistics business has excellent assets in key locations and strong growth potential. Our retail business also has steady cash flows, as well as an iconic brand and high-traffic locations. We also have a great team of employees who are ready to move the company forward to deliver growth and value to our shareholders."
 
Elsenhans said, "In recent years we have taken a number of necessary steps to streamline Sunoco and deliver value to our shareholders, including spinning off SunCoke, exiting our underperforming chemicals business, buying back approximately 12% of Sunoco stock, and deciding to exit our refining business given the significant losses we have incurred over the past three years. Given Sunoco's latest strategic initiatives and its business focus on logistics and retail, now is the right time for me to step aside and enable the company to realign its management structure to fit its new profile. I have full confidence that Sunoco will be in good hands under Brian's leadership."
MacDonald, 46, joined Sunoco in 2009 as senior vice president and chief financial officer. He is also chief financial officer and a director of Sunoco Logistics Partners, L.P. He joined Sunoco from Dell, Inc., where he spent six years in increasingly senior financial management positions, most recently as chief financial officer of the commercial business unit overseeing all aspects of financial management and previously as corporate vice president and treasurer of Dell, Inc. and chairman of Dell Financial Services. Prior to joining Dell in 2002, Mr. MacDonald held financial management positions for over 13 years at General Motors Corporation in Canada, the United States, Belgium, France and Japan where his last role was at Isuzu Motors, which was 49 percent-owned by General Motors. He earned a Bachelor of Science degree from Mount Allison University and received a Masters degree in Business Administration from McGill University. He also studied at Manchester Business School in the United Kingdom.
Update on Refinery Sales Process
Sunoco has conducted a rigorous and thorough sales process for its Marcus Hook and Philadelphia refineries over the past five months with the help of its financial adviser Credit Suisse. The company initiated contact with more than 150 potential purchasers from around the world, including national oil companies, integrated oil companies, independent refiners, pipeline companies and private equity groups. The potential buyers we have spoken to have considered a range of options, including operating the refineries (or only one refinery), operating specific units within the refineries, or using the facilities for their storage and logistical capabilities. At this time, the company has received some degree of interest in its Philadelphia refinery and will continue to pursue a sale of that facility as an operating refinery. If a suitable transaction cannot be concluded, the company intends to idle the main processing units at Philadelphia by July 2012. Sunoco has not received a single proposal for the purchase of Marcus Hook as an operating refinery, but is continuing to pursue alternatives for the facility. At this time, Sunoco does not believe that Marcus Hook will be purchased and re-started as an operating refinery. Marcus Hook halted crude processing in December and its idling process is expected to be complete within the next few weeks.
About Sunoco
Sunoco is a leading logistics and retail company. The company owns the General Partner interest of Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. (NYSE: SXL), which consists of a 2-percent ownership interest and incentive distribution rights, and owns a 32-percent interest in the Partnership's limited partner units. Sunoco Logistics is an owner and operator of complementary pipeline, terminal and crude oil acquisition and marketing assets. Sunoco also has a network of approximately 4,900 retail locations in 23 states.
Statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of
1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions by the Company concerning future conditions, any or all of which ultimately may prove to be inaccurate, and upon the current knowledge, beliefs, projections and expectations of Company management. In addition, payment of future dividends is subject to declaration by the board of directors as to both timing and amount.
The reader should not place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and involve significant risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in this release. Such risks and uncertainties include economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting the Company's business, as well as uncertainties related to the outcomes of pending or future litigation, legislation, or regulatory actions. Unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this release also could have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements. In accordance with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company has included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, and in its subsequent Form 10-Q and Form 8-K filings, cautionary language identifying important factors (though not necessarily all such factors) that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. For more information concerning these factors, see the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, available on the Company's website at . The Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
www.SunocoInc.com


