FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20120802164233.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The press release announcing the financial results of Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") for the second quarter of 2012 is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
PHILADELPHIA, August 2, 2012  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) reported net income attributable to Sunoco, Inc. shareholders of $248 million ($2.35 per share diluted) for the second quarter of 2012 versus a net loss attributable to Sunoco, Inc. shareholders of $125 million ($1.03 per share diluted) for the second quarter of 2011. Excluding special items, Sunoco had income of $129 million ($1.22 per share diluted) for the second quarter of 2012 versus income of $20 million ($0.17 per share diluted) for the second quarter of 2011. Key 2012 second quarter details include:
 
 
 
 
 
"Sunoco had a solid quarter thanks to excellent results in its logistics and retail segments which contributed pretax income of $82 and $73 million, respectively. These businesses continue to provide steady, ratable cash flows we can count on," said Brian P. MacDonald, Sunoco's chairman, chief executive officer and president. "Results in our refining and supply segment rebounded during the quarter and provided a nice lift on higher realized margins."
Commenting on the Company's pending merger with Energy Transfer Partners, L.P. ("ETP"), MacDonald said, "We continue to move forward with the merger process as seen in ETP's recent filing of a draft Form S-4 registration statement. We are on track and working toward closing this transaction in the fourth quarter of 2012."
Regarding Sunoco's pending transaction related to the Philadelphia refinery, MacDonald said, "We continue to make progress in forming the joint venture with The Carlyle Group and anticipate closing that transaction in the third quarter. I want to commend our refinery employees for achieving excellent operating results and capitalizing on the strong market conditions in the quarter."
 
DETAILS OF SECOND QUARTER RESULTS
Logistics
Logistics earned $82 million pretax in the second quarter of 2012 versus $54 million in the second quarter of 2011. The increase in earnings was primarily due to expanded crude oil volumes and margins resulting from market related opportunities in West Texas and contributions from acquisitions completed during 2011. Higher crude oil pipeline fees and earnings attributable to refined product acquisition and marketing activities also contributed to the improved results.
Retail Marketing
Retail Marketing had pretax income of $73 million in the current quarter versus $69 million in the second quarter of 2011. Higher retail gasoline and diesel margins were partially offset by lower gasoline volumes.
Refining and Supply
Refining and Supply had pretax income of $87 million in the current quarter versus a $44 million loss in the second quarter of 2011. The improvement in results was largely due to higher realized margins, lower expenses attributable to the idling of the Marcus Hook refinery in December 2011 and lower depreciation expense resulting from significant asset write-downs during the second half of 2011. These positive factors were partially offset by lower production volumes. Average crude throughputs were down 34 percent versus the second quarter of 2011 as a result of the idling of the Marcus Hook refinery.
Other
Corporate administrative expenses were $19 million pretax in the current quarter versus $18 million in the second quarter of 2011. Higher accruals for incentive compensation were largely offset by lower staffing costs.
Net financing expenses and other were $26 million pretax in the second quarter of 2012 compared to $19 million in the second quarter of 2011. The increase is primarily attributable to higher interest expense associated with borrowings of Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. and the absence of interest income related to notes receivable balances resulting from the sale of the Toledo refinery.
 
Income Taxes
Excluding the impact of special items, the tax expense on $197 million of pretax income from continuing operations attributable to Sunoco, Inc. shareholders for the second quarter of 2012 was $68 million compared to tax expense of $22 million on $42 million of pretax income from continuing operations attributable to Sunoco, Inc. shareholders during the second quarter of 2011. The increase in tax expense was primarily attributable to the increase in pretax income from continuing operations.
Special Items
During the second quarter of 2012, Sunoco recognized a $59 million gain ($35 million after tax) related to the reversal of certain severance, contract termination and idling reserves that are not expected to be incurred as a result of the joint venture agreement with The Carlyle Group; recognized gains of $213 million ($121 million after tax) attributable to the reduction of refined product LIFO inventories primarily attributable to the idling of the Marcus Hook refinery; recorded a $15 million provision ($8 million after tax) largely related to pension settlement losses attributable to refining operations; recorded a $21 million provision ($13 million after tax) related to an insurance reserve adjustment; and recorded a $29 million provision ($20 million after tax) largely related to additional stock-based compensation expense resulting from the spin-off of SunCoke Energy, Inc. and employee termination agreements and expenses related to the proposed merger with Energy Transfer Partners, L.P. The total net impact of special items during the second quarter of 2012 was income of $207 million ($115 million after tax).
During the second quarter of 2011, Sunoco recognized a $9 million gain ($6 million after tax) from the remeasurement of its pre-acquisition equity interests in a pipeline joint venture to fair value; recorded a $7 million provision ($4 million after tax) primarily related to asset write-downs at the Eagle Point refinery and recognized pension settlement losses of $9 million ($5 million after tax) attributable to the divestment of the Toledo refinery. The total net impact of special items during the second quarter of 2011 was a pretax loss of $7 million ($3 million after tax).
Discontinued Operations
Income from discontinued operations amounted to $4 million, net of taxes, in the second quarter of 2012 compared to a loss of $142 million, net of taxes, in the second quarter of 2011. The loss in 2011 relates primarily to asset write-downs at the Frankford and Haverhill chemicals facilities prior to their divestment.
Sunoco is a leading logistics and retail company. The Company owns the general partner interest of Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. (NYSE: SXL), which consists of a 2-percent ownership interest and incentive distribution rights, and owns a 32-percent interest in the Partnership's limited partner units. Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. is an owner and operator of complementary pipeline, terminal and crude oil acquisition and marketing assets. Sunoco also has a network of approximately 4,900 retail locations in 23 states.
Anyone interested in obtaining further insights into the second quarter's results can monitor the Company's quarterly teleconference call, which is scheduled for 5:00 p.m. ET on August 2, 2012. It can be accessed through Sunoco's website - www.SunocoInc.com. It is suggested that you visit the site prior to the teleconference to ensure that you have downloaded any necessary software.
 
Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions by the Company concerning future conditions, any or all of which ultimately may prove to be inaccurate, and upon the current knowledge, beliefs and expectations of Company management. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and involve significant known and unknown risks and uncertainties (many of which are beyond the control of the Company) that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in this release.
Such risks and uncertainties include economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting the Company's business, as well as uncertainties related to the outcomes of pending or future litigation, legislation, or regulatory actions. Among such risks are: changes in crude oil or natural gas prices, refining, marketing and chemicals margins, or other market conditions affecting the oil and gas industry; higher-than-expected costs of, or delays in, planned development or completion of repair projects, capital projects, acquisitions, or dispositions; operational interruptions, unforeseen technical difficulties and/or changes in technical or operating conditions; general domestic and international economic and political conditions, wars and acts of terrorism or sabotage; the outcome of commercial negotiations; the actions of competitors or regulators; the competitiveness of alternate-energy sources or product substitutes; technological developments; liability resulting from pending or future litigation; significant investment or product changes and/or liability for remedial actions or assessments under existing or future environmental regulations; gains and losses related to the acquisition, disposition or impairment of assets; recapitalizations; access to, or significantly higher costs of, capital; the effects of changes in accounting rules applicable to the Company; and changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations applicable to the Company's businesses. Unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this release also could have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements.
In accordance with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company has included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and in its subsequent Form 10-Q and Form 8-K filings, cautionary language identifying other important factors (though not necessarily all such factors) that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. For more information concerning these factors, see the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, available on the Company's website at www.SunocoInc.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IMPORTANT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION WILL BE FILED WITH THE SEC
In connection with the proposed business combination transaction between Energy Transfer Partners, L.P. ("ETP") and Sunoco, Inc. ("Sunoco"), ETP has filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a registration statement on Form S-4 that contains a preliminary proxy statement/prospectus. The registration statement has not yet become effective. Following the registration statement having been declared effective by the SEC, ETP and Sunoco will file with the SEC and mail to the Sunoco shareholders the definitive proxy statement/prospectus. THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND THE PRELIMINARY PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT ETP, SUNOCO, THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION AND RELATED MATTERS. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ CAREFULLY THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND THE PRELIMINARY PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND THE DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE. Investors and security holders may obtain free copies of the registration statement and the proxy statement/prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC by ETP and Sunoco through the web site maintained by the SEC at . In addition, investors and security holders may obtain free copies of the registration statement and the proxy statement/prospectus by phone, e-mail or written request by contacting the investor relations department of ETP or Sunoco at the following:
www.sec.gov
 
PARTICIPANTS IN THE SOLICITATION
ETP and Sunoco, and their respective directors, executive officers and affiliates, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. Information regarding directors and executive officers of ETP's general partner is contained in ETP's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which has been filed with the SEC. Information regarding Sunoco's directors and executive officers is contained in Sunoco's definitive proxy statement dated March 16, 2012, which is filed with the SEC. A more complete description is available in the registration statement and the preliminary proxy statement/prospectus.
SAFE HARBOR FOR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Statements in this document regarding the proposed transaction between ETP and Sunoco, the expected timetable for completing the proposed transaction, future financial and operating results, benefits and synergies of the proposed transaction, future opportunities for the combined company, and any other statements about ETP, Energy Transfer Equity, L.P. ("ETE"), Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. ("SXL") or Sunoco managements' future expectations, beliefs, goals, plans or prospects constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact (including statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," "estimates" and similar expressions) should also be considered to be forward looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward looking statements, including: the ability to consummate the proposed transaction; the ability to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals, Sunoco shareholder approval and the satisfaction of other conditions to consummation of the transaction; the ability of ETP to successfully integrate Sunoco's operations and employees; the ability to realize anticipated synergies and cost savings; the potential impact of announcement of the transaction or consummation of the transaction on relationships, including with employees, suppliers, customers and competitors; the ability to achieve revenue growth; national, international, regional and local economic, competitive and regulatory conditions and developments; technological developments; capital and credit markets conditions; inflation rates; interest rates; the political and economic stability of oil producing nations; energy markets, including changes in the price of certain commodities; weather conditions; environmental conditions; business and regulatory or legal decisions; the pace of deregulation of retail natural gas and electricity and certain agricultural products; the timing and success of business development efforts; terrorism; and the other factors described in the Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 filed with the SEC by ETP, ETE, SXL and Sunoco. ETP, ETE, SXL and Sunoco disclaim any intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this document.
 


