FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20120927172132.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.04 Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
On August 20, 2012, Sunoco, Inc. ("Sunoco") sent a notice to its officers and directors of a blackout period (the "Blackout Period") in connection with the liquidation of the Sunoco, Inc. Capital Accumulation Plan's ("SunCAP") Sunoco, Inc. Common Stock Fund and ESOP Fund (the "Sunoco Stock Funds"). The liquidation of the Sunoco Stock Funds was required pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of April 29, 2012 by and between Sunoco and Energy Transfer Partners, L.P. ("ETP"), Energy Transfer Partners GP, L.P., the general partner of ETP, Sam Acquisition Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of ETP, and, for certain limited purposes, Energy Transfer Equity, L.P., the indirect parent of ETP GP and ETP, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto dated as of June 15, 2012. The Blackout Period commenced on September 19, 2012 and was expected to end on October 2, 2012.
By notice delivered September 27, 2012 (the "Update Notice"), Sunoco provided an update regarding the end of the Blackout Period to its officers and directors indicating that the Blackout Period ended on September 26, 2012. The Blackout Period ended earlier than expected as a result of market conditions and the ability of SunCAP's record keeper to efficiently settle the trades and allocate proceeds to affected participants.
A copy of the Update Notice is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
IMPORTANT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION IS AVAILABLE WITH THE SEC
In connection with the proposed merger between ETP and Sunoco, ETP has filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), and the SEC declared effective on August 24, 2012, a registration statement on Form S-4 that contains a proxy statement/prospectus. Sunoco filed a definitive proxy statement/prospectus with the SEC on August 29, 2012. THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND THE PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT ETP, SUNOCO, THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION AND RELATED MATTERS. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ CAREFULLY THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND THE PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS. Investors and security holders may obtain free copies of the registration statement and the proxy statement/prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC by ETP and Sunoco through the web site maintained by the SEC at . In addition, investors and security holders may obtain free copies of the registration statement and the proxy statement/prospectus by phone, e-mail or written request by contacting the investor relations department of ETP or Sunoco at the following:
www.sec.gov
 
PARTICIPANTS IN THE SOLICITATION
ETP and Sunoco, and their respective directors, executive officers and affiliates, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. Information regarding directors and executive officers of ETP's general partner is contained in ETP's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which has been filed with the SEC. Information regarding Sunoco's directors and executive officers is contained in Sunoco's definitive proxy statement dated March 16, 2012, which is filed with the SEC. A more complete description is available in the proxy statement/prospectus.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
99.1     Update Notice to Directors and Officers of Sunoco, Inc. Dated September 27, 2012
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
This notice is to inform you that there are no longer restrictions under Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") Regulation BTR (Blackout Trading Restrictions) on your ability to trade in Sunoco, Inc. ("Sunoco") common stock and derivative securities (such as stock options, stock appreciation rights and cash restricted stock units) as a result of the "blackout period" for the Sunoco, Inc. Capital Accumulation Plan ("SunCAP").
The SunCAP blackout period described in the "Notice to Directors and Executive Officers of Sunoco, Inc. Concerning Limitations on Trading in Sunoco, Inc. Securities" provided to you on August 20, 2012 ended on , four business days earlier than the anticipated end date of Tuesday, October 2, 2012. As you are aware, during the blackout period, SunCAP's Sunoco, Inc. Common Stock Fund and the ESOP Fund were completely liquidated. The blackout period ended earlier than expected as a result of market conditions and the ability of the SunCAP's record keeper to efficiently settle the trades and allocate proceeds to affected participants.
Wednesday, September 26, 2012 at 4 p.m.
Please note that, even though there are no longer restrictions under Sarbanes-Oxley and Regulation BTR on your ability to directly or indirectly purchase, sell or otherwise transfer Sunoco equity securities, Sunoco's Insider Trading Policy remains in effect. If you have any questions about this notice, please contact John J. DiRocco, Jr., Assistant General Counsel & Assistant Corporate Secretary, at 1818 Market Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103 or 215.977.6305.


