FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20120621172459.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 29, 2012, Sunoco, Inc. ("" or the "") entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "") with Energy Transfer Partners, L.P. (""), Energy Transfer Partners GP, L.P., the general partner of ETP (""), Sam Acquisition Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of ETP (""), and, for certain limited purposes set forth in the Merger Agreement, Energy Transfer Equity, L.P., the indirect parent of ETP GP and ETP (""), providing for the merger of Merger Sub with and into Sunoco (the ""). The Merger Agreement also provided that, immediately prior to the Merger, (1) Sunoco Partners LLC, which is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Sunoco and the general partner of Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. (""), would distribute its common units of SXL to other wholly owned subsidiaries of Sunoco (the ""); and (2) following such distribution, Sunoco would contribute cash and its indirect ownership interest in Sunoco Partners LLC to ETP, in exchange for Class F units to be issued by ETP (the "").
Sunoco
Company
Merger Agreement
ETP
ETP GP
Merger Sub
ETE
Merger
SXL
Distribution
Contribution
On June 15, 2012, the parties to the Merger Agreement entered into Amendment No. 1 to the Merger Agreement (""), pursuant to which they agreed that the Distribution would not occur immediately prior to the Contribution, and pursuant to which they specified the number of Class F units that would be issued by ETP for the Contribution. Amendment No. 1 was entered into in connection with the Transaction Agreement, dated as of June 15, 2012, by and among ETP, ETE and certain of their affiliates, whereby ETP and ETE have agreed following the Merger to jointly own Sunoco (other than Sunoco's indirect interest in SXL, which will be retained by ETP) and Southern Union Company, which is currently a subsidiary of ETE, under a single holding company.
Amendment No. 1
The foregoing summary of the Merger Agreement, Amendment No. 1 and the transactions contemplated by the amended Merger Agreement does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the full text of the Merger Agreement and Amendment No. 1, which are incorporated by reference into this Form 8-K as Exhibit 2.1 and Exhibit 2.2, respectively.
The Merger Agreement, Amendment No. 1 and the above description have been included to provide investors and security holders with information regarding the terms of the Merger Agreement and Amendment No. 1. They are not intended to provide any other factual information about Sunoco, ETP or their respective subsidiaries or affiliates or equityholders. The representations, warranties and covenants contained in the Merger Agreement and Amendment No. 1 were made only for purposes of those agreements and as of specific dates; were solely for the benefit of the parties to the Merger Agreement and Amendment No. 1; and may be subject to limitations agreed upon by the parties, including being qualified by confidential disclosures made by each contracting party to the other for the purposes of allocating contractual risks between them that differ from those applicable to investors. Investors should be aware that the representations, warranties and covenants or any description thereof may not reflect the actual state of facts or condition of Sunoco, ETP, Merger Sub or any of their respective subsidiaries, affiliates, businesses, or equityholders. Moreover, information concerning the subject matter of the representations, warranties and covenants may change after the date of the Merger Agreement, which subsequent information may or may not be fully reflected in public disclosures by Sunoco or ETP. Accordingly, investors should read the representations and warranties in the Merger Agreement and Amendment No. 1 not in isolation but only in conjunction with the other information about Sunoco or ETP and their respective subsidiaries that the respective companies include in reports, statements and other filings they make with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
IMPORTANT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION WILL BE FILED WITH THE SEC
In connection with the proposed business combination transaction between Energy Transfer Partners, L.P. ("ETP") and Sunoco, Inc. ("Sunoco"), ETP plans to file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a registration statement on Form S-4 that will contain a proxy statement/prospectus to be mailed to the Sunoco shareholders in connection with the proposed transaction. THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND THE PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT ETP, SUNOCO, THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION AND RELATED MATTERS. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND THE PROXY/PROSPECTUS CAREFULLY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of the registration statement and the proxy statement/prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC by ETP and Sunoco through the web site maintained by the SEC at . In addition, investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of the registration statement and the proxy statement/prospectus by phone, e-mail or written request by contacting the investor relations department of ETP or Sunoco at the following:
www.sec.gov
 
PARTICIPANTS IN THE SOLICITATION
ETP and Sunoco, and their respective directors, executive officers and affiliates, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. Information regarding directors and executive officers of ETP's general partner is contained in ETP's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which has been filed with the SEC. Information regarding Sunoco's directors and executive officers is contained in Sunoco's definitive proxy statement dated March 16, 2012, which is filed with the SEC. A more complete description will be available in the registration statement and the proxy statement/prospectus.
 
SAFE HARBOR FOR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Statements in this document regarding the proposed transaction between ETP and Sunoco, the expected timetable for completing the proposed transaction, future financial and operating results, benefits and synergies of the proposed transaction, future opportunities for the combined company, and any other statements about ETP, Energy Transfer Equity, L.P. ("ETE"), Sunoco Logistics Partners, L.P. ("SXL") or Sunoco managements' future expectations, beliefs, goals, plans or prospects constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact (including statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," estimates and similar expressions) should also be considered to be forward looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward looking statements, including: the ability to consummate the proposed transaction; the ability to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals, Sunoco shareholder approval and the satisfaction of other conditions to consummation of the transaction; the ability of ETP to successfully integrate Sunoco's operations and employees; the ability to realize anticipated synergies and cost savings; the potential impact of announcement of the transaction or consummation of the transaction on relationships, including with employees, suppliers, customers and competitors; the ability to achieve revenue growth; national, international, regional and local economic, competitive and regulatory conditions and developments; technological developments; capital and credit markets conditions; inflation rates; interest rates; the political and economic stability of oil producing nations; energy markets, including changes in the price of certain commodities; weather conditions; environmental conditions; business and regulatory or legal decisions; the pace of deregulation of retail natural gas and electricity and certain agricultural products; the timing and success of business development efforts; terrorism; and the other factors described in the Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 filed with the SEC by ETP, ETE, SXL and Sunoco. ETP, ETE, SXL and Sunoco disclaim any intention or obligation to update any forward looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this document.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 2.2
EXECUTION COPY
This AMENDMENT NO. 1 (this ""), dated as of June 15, 2012, to Agreement and Plan of Merger (the ""), dated as of April 29, 2012, is by and among Energy Transfer Partners, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (""), Energy Transfer Partners GP, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership and general partner of ETP (""), Sam Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a direct wholly owned subsidiary of ETP (""), Sunoco, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation (the "") and, solely as applicable pursuant to Section 8.11 of the Merger Agreement, Energy Transfer Equity, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("ETE").
Amendment
Merger Agreement
ETP
Parent
Merger Sub
Company
WHEREAS, the parties have heretofore entered into the Merger Agreement, which provides for, among other things, the merger of Merger Sub with and into the Company, with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation, upon the terms and conditions set forth therein;
WHEREAS, the parties desire to amend certain provisions of the Merger Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of each of the Company, the general partner of Parent and Merger Sub have each approved the execution, delivery and performance of this Amendment and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements set forth in the Merger Agreement and this Amendment, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, ETP, Parent, Merger Sub and the Company hereby agree as follows:
1. . Terms used herein and not defined shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Merger Agreement.
Definitions
2. Section 8.15(b)(i) of the Merger Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Additional Transactions.
(i) "" means the following transactions, in the following order: (1) the contribution by the members of Sunoco Partners LLC of their respective interests in Sunoco Partners LLC to ETP in exchange for 50,706,000 Class F Units, and (2) the contribution by the Company of an amount of cash and cash equivalents specified by ETP (but only to the extent that such amount is equal to or less than the Available Cash) to ETP in exchange for a number of Class F Units equal to the amount of such cash divided by $50.00.
Additional Transactions
3. to the Merger Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety in the form set forth in hereto.
Partnership Agreement Amendment.
Annex A
Annex A
4. . Each reference in the Merger Agreement to "this Agreement," "hereof," "hereunder" or words of like import referring to the Merger Agreement shall mean and be a reference to the Merger Agreement as amended by this Amendment. References in Sections 4.22 and 5.19 of the Merger Agreement to clause (3) of the definition of "Additional Transactions" are hereby amended to refer to clause (2) of the definition of "Additional Transactions."
References
5. . This Amendment shall not constitute an amendment or waiver of any provision of the Merger Agreement not expressly amended and or waived herein and shall not be construed as an amendment, waiver or consent to any action that would require an amendment, waiver or consent except as expressly stated herein. The Merger Agreement, as amended by this Amendment, is and shall continue to be in full force and effect and is in all respects ratified and confirmed hereby.
Effect of Amendment
6. . This Amendment may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument, and shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered (by telecopy, electronic delivery or otherwise) to the other parties. Signatures to this Amendment transmitted by facsimile transmission, by electronic mail in "portable document format" (".pdf") form, or by any other electronic means intended to preserve the original graphic and pictorial appearance of a document, will have the same effect as physical delivery of the paper document bearing the original signature.
Counterparts; Effectiveness
7. . This Amendment, and all claims or causes of action (whether at Law, in contract or in tort or otherwise) that may be based upon, arise out of or relate to this Amendment or the negotiation, execution or performance hereof, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without giving effect to any choice or conflict of law provision or rule (whether of the State of Delaware or any other jurisdiction) that would cause the application of the laws of any jurisdiction other than the State of Delaware.
Governing Law
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed and delivered as of the date first above written.
 
This Amendment No. 2 (this "") to the Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Energy Transfer Partners, L.P. (the ""), dated as of July 28, 2009, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto dated as of March 26, 2012 (as so amended, the ""), is hereby adopted effective as of [], 2012, by Energy Transfer Partners GP, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the ""), as general partner of the Partnership. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meaning given such terms in the Partnership Agreement.
Amendment No. 2
Partnership
Partnership Agreement
General Partner
WHEREAS, Section 13.1(d)(i) of the Partnership Agreement provides that the General Partner, without the approval of any Partner, may amend any provision of the Partnership Agreement to reflect a change that, in the discretion of the General Partner, does not adversely affect the Unitholders in any material respect; and
WHEREAS, Section 13.1(g) of the Partnership Agreement provides that the General Partner, without the approval of any Partner (subject to Section 5.7 of the Partnership Agreement), may amend any provision of the Partnership Agreement to reflect an amendment that, in the discretion of the General Partner, is necessary or advisable in connection with the authorization of issuance of any class or series of Partnership Securities pursuant to Section 5.6 of the Partnership Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the General Partner has entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (as amended, the "") by and among the Partnership, the General Partner, Sam Acquisition Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation (""), and Sunoco, Inc. a Pennsylvania corporation (the ""), pursuant to which Merger Sub will be merged with and into the Company (the ""), with the Company surviving the Merger; and
Merger Agreement
Merger Sub
Company
Merger
WHEREAS, in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, the Partnership is obligated to issue limited partner interests to be designated as Class F Units having the rights, preferences and privileges set forth in this Amendment No. 2; and
WHEREAS, the General Partner has determined that the creation of the new class of Partnership Securities to be designated as "Class F Units" provided for in this Amendment No. 2 will be in the best interests of the Partnership and beneficial to the Limited Partners, including the holders of the Common Units; and
WHEREAS, the General Partner has determined, pursuant to Section 13.1(g) of the Partnership Agreement, that the amendments to the Partnership Agreement set forth herein (other than those amendments to Section 6.4 of the Partnership Agreement) are necessary or advisable in connection with the authorization of the issuance of the Class F Units; and
 
WHEREAS, acting pursuant to the power and authority granted to it under Section 13.1(d)(i) of the Partnership Agreement, the General Partner has determined that the following amendment to Section 6.4 of the Partnership Agreement does not adversely affect the Unitholders in any material respect; and
NOW THEREFORE, the General Partner does hereby amend the Partnership Agreement as follows:
Section 1. .
Amendment
(a) Section 1.1 of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended to add or amend and restate the following definitions in the appropriate alphabetical order:
(i) "" means, with respect to the Class F Units for any date, the percentage determined by multiplying (a) 35% by (b) the quotient obtained by dividing (A) the number of Class F Units Outstanding on such date, by (B)                     ..
Class F Percentage
1
(ii) "" means $50.00.
Class F Issue Price
(iii) "" means a Unit representing a fractional part of the Partnership Interests of all Limited Partners and Assignees and of the General Partner (exclusive of its interest as holder of the general partner interest and the Incentive Distribution Rights) and having the rights and obligations specified with respect to Class F Units in this Agreement.
Class F Unit
(iv) "" means Sunoco, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation.
Company
(v) "" means the merger of Merger Sub with and into the Company contemplated by the Company Merger Agreement.
Company Merger
(vi) "" means the Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among the Partnership, the General Partner, Merger Sub, and the Company, pursuant to which Merger Sub will be merged with and into the Company.
Company Merger Agreement
(vii) "ETP Holdco" means ETP Holdco Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
(viii) "ETP Holdco Distributions" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.10(b)(iii)(A).
(ix) "ETP Holdco Items" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.10(b)(ii)(A).
(x) "" has the meaning ascribed to such term in the Company Merger Agreement.
Merger Sub
(xi) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.4(c).
Quarterly Reduction Amount
 
 
 
(xii) "" means a Partnership Interest of a Limited Partner or Assignee in the Partnership and shall include Common Units, Class E Units and Class F Units, but shall not include (x) the general partner interest in the Partnership or (y) Incentive Distribution Rights.
Unit
(xiii) "" means the holders of Common Units, Class E Units and Class F Units.
Unitholders
(xiv) "" means at least a majority of the Outstanding Units (excluding the Class E Units and Class F Units in respect of matters in which the holders of the Class E Units and Class F Units are not entitled to a vote).
Unit Majority
(b) Article V of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by adding a new Section 5.10 at the end thereof as follows:
"
5.10 Establishment of Class F Units.
(a) . The General Partner hereby designates and creates a series of Units to be designated as "Class F Units" and consisting of a total of              Class F Units.
General
2
(b) . The Class F Units shall have the following rights, preferences and privileges and shall be subject to the following duties and obligations:
Rights of Class F Units
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) Section 6.1(a)(iii)(A)(II) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by replacing "HHI Distributions" with "ETP Holdco Distributions" where such term is used.
(d) Section 6.1(d)(xiii) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by (i) changing the subtitle to "Class E and ETP Holdco Allocations," (ii) replacing "HHI" with "ETP Holdco" each place where such term is used, (iii) deleting the parenthetical containing "HHI Items" in clause (A), and (iv) replacing "HHI Items" with "ETP Holdco Items" each other place where the term "HHI Items" is used.
(e) Section 6.3(e)(i) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended and restated as follows:
"(i) For each taxable year, no portion of any Partnership cash distributions that are ETP Holdco Distributions shall be distributed to the Class E Units."
(f) Section 6.3(e)(ii) of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by replacing "HHI Distributions" with "ETP Holdco Distributions" where such term is used.
(g) Section 6.4 of the Partnership Agreement is hereby amended by adding a new subsection (c) as follows:
"(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 6.4, and without limiting the provisions of Subsection 6.4(b), for a period of twelve consecutive Quarters commencing with the Quarter in which the Company Merger is consummated, aggregate quarterly distributions, if any, to the holders of the Incentive Distribution Rights provided for in clauses (iii)(B), (iv)(B) and (v)(B) of Subsection 6.4(a) shall be reduced by $17,500,000 per Quarter (the "Quarterly Reduction Amount"); provided, that if any such reduction for a Quarter would result in a negative number, then the Quarterly Reduction Amount for such Quarter shall be adjusted and deemed to be an amount that would result in zero quarterly distributions for such Quarter to the holders of Incentive Distribution Rights provided for in clauses (iii)(B), (iv)(B) and (v)(B) of Subsection 6.4(a)."
Section 2. Except as hereby amended, the Partnership Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 3. This Amendment shall be governed by, and interpreted in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, all rights and remedies being governed by such laws without regard to principles of conflicts of laws.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been executed as of the date first above written.
 
 


