FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20120820162234.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.04
Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
Sunoco, Inc. ("") and Energy Transfer Partners, L.P. (""), Energy Transfer Partners GP, L.P., the general partner of ETP, Sam Acquisition Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of ETP, and, for certain limited purposes, Energy Transfer Equity, L.P., the indirect parent of ETP GP and ETP have entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of April 29, 2012, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto dated as of June 15, 2012 (the ""). Section 5.7(e) of the Merger Agreement provides that Sunoco will take such actions as may be necessary to eliminate from the Sunoco, Inc. Capital Accumulation Plan ("") any investment fund, election or alternative that provides for an investment directly in shares of Sunoco common stock, effective no later than immediately prior to the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. The reason for this request is that the receipt and retention of merger consideration in the form of ETP common units in SunCAP accounts would result in prohibited transactions under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
Sunoco
ETP
Merger Agreement
SunCAP
During the period when the trustee of SunCAP is taking the steps necessary to implement the liquidation of SunCAP's Sunoco, Inc. Common Stock Fund and the ESOP Fund (the ""), and the allocation and reinvestment of the proceeds of such liquidation to the affected SunCAP participants' accounts, participants in SunCAP will be unable to direct or diversify investments in or out of the Sunoco Stock Funds, which constitutes a "blackout period" for SunCAP. Pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Commission's (the "") Regulation BTR, a corresponding blackout period will be imposed on all of Sunoco's directors and officers with respect to equity securities acquired in connection with their service to or employment with Sunoco.
Sunoco Stock Funds
SEC
On August 20, 2012, Sunoco sent a notice to its officers and directors informing them of the corresponding blackout period, during which time they will be prohibited from engaging in transactions in Sunoco equity securities acquired in connection with their service to or employment with Sunoco (the ""). Sunoco directors and executive officers were informed that the SunCAP blackout period currently is expected to begin at 1:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) on Wednesday, September 19, 2012 and is expected to end at 4:00 p.m. (Eastern Time) on Tuesday, October 2, 2012.
Notice
Sunoco provided the Notice to its directors and executive officers pursuant to Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Rule 104 of the SEC's Regulation BTR. A copy of the Notice, which includes the information specified in Rule 104(b) of Regulation BTR, is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
IMPORTANT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION WILL BE FILED WITH THE SEC
In connection with the proposed business combination transaction between ETP and Sunoco, ETP has filed with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 that contains a preliminary proxy statement/prospectus. The registration statement has not yet become effective. Following the registration statement having been declared effective by the SEC, ETP and Sunoco will file with the SEC and mail to the Sunoco shareholders the definitive proxy statement/prospectus. THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND THE PRELIMINARY PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT ETP, SUNOCO, THE PROPOSED TRANSACTIONS AND RELATED MATTERS. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ CAREFULLY THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND THE PRELIMINARY PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND THE DEFINITIVE PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS WHEN IT BECOMES AVAILABLE. Investors and security holders may obtain free copies of the registration statement and the proxy statement/prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC by ETP and Sunoco through the web site maintained by the SEC at . In addition, investors and security holders may obtain free copies of the registration statement and the proxy statement/prospectus by phone, e-mail or written request by contacting the investor relations department of ETP or Sunoco at the following:
www.sec.gov
 
 
PARTICIPANTS IN THE SOLICITATION
ETP and Sunoco, and their respective directors, executive officers and affiliates, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. Information regarding directors and executive officers of ETP's general partner is contained in ETP's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which has been filed with the SEC. Information regarding Sunoco's directors and executive officers is contained in Sunoco's definitive proxy statement dated March 16, 2012, which is filed with the SEC. A more complete description is available in the registration statement and the preliminary proxy statement/prospectus.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
This notice is to inform you of significant restrictions on your ability to trade in Sunoco, Inc. ("") common stock and derivative securities (such as stock options, stock appreciation rights and cash restricted stock units) during an upcoming special "blackout period." These restrictions are imposed on all directors and executive officers of Sunoco by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("") Regulation BTR (Blackout Trading Restriction). As more fully described below, during this blackout period, you will be prohibited from engaging in transactions involving Sunoco common stock or derivative securities (such as stock options, stock appreciation rights and cash restricted stock units) that you have acquired your service or employment with Sunoco as a director or an executive officer. We will notify you of any changes that affect the blackout period.
Sunoco
SEC
in connection with
1. Sunoco and Energy Transfer Partners, L.P. (""), Energy Transfer Partners GP, L.P., the general partner of ETP, Sam Acquisition Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of ETP, and, for certain limited purposes, Energy Transfer Equity, L.P., the indirect parent of ETP GP and ETP have entered into the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of April 29, 2012, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto dated as of June 15, 2012 (the ""). Section 5.7(e) of the Merger Agreement provides that Sunoco will take such actions as may be necessary to eliminate from the Sunoco, Inc. Capital Accumulation Plan ("") any investment fund, election or alternative that provides for an investment directly in the shares of Sunoco common stock, as of no later than immediately prior to the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. The reason for this change is that the receipt and retention of merger consideration in the form of ETP common units in SunCAP accounts would result in prohibited transactions under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("").
ETP
Merger Agreement
SunCAP
ERISA
2. During the period when the trustee of SunCAP is taking the steps necessary to implement the liquidation of SunCAP's Sunoco, Inc. Common Stock Fund and the ESOP Fund (the ""), and the allocation and reinvestment of the proceeds of such liquidation to the affected SunCAP participants' accounts, participants in SunCAP will be unable to direct or diversify investments in or out of the Sunoco Stock Funds, which constitutes a "blackout period" for SunCAP (the ""). Pursuant to SEC's Regulation BTR, a corresponding blackout period will be imposed on all of Sunoco's directors and executive officers with respect to acquired their service to or employment with Sunoco.
Sunoco Stock Funds
SunCAP blackout period
equity securities
in connection with
3. Securities acquired service as a director or employment as an executive officer include, among other things, securities acquired by you under a compensatory plan or contract (such as under a stock option or deferred compensation plan), in transactions between you and Sunoco, and as shares necessary for you to qualify as a director or to satisfy minimum ownership requirements or guidelines. Securities acquired outside of your service as a director or employment as an executive officer are not subject to this prohibition.
in connection with
4. The SunCAP blackout period currently is expected to begin at and is expected to end . Depending on the number of shares of Sunoco common stock that can be sold on the open market by the SunCAP trustee for each day of the liquidation period, the SunCAP blackout period may end earlier or later than Tuesday, October 2, 2012. You will receive a notice when the SunCAP blackout period has ended with regard to the Sunoco Stock Funds.
1 p.m. Eastern Time on Wednesday, September 19, 2012
at 4 p.m. Eastern Time on Tuesday, October 2, 2012
 
5. Generally, during the SunCAP blackout period, you will be prohibited from directly or indirectly purchasing, selling or otherwise transferring any Sunoco that you acquired with your service or employment as a director or an executive officer. s are defined broadly to include stock, stock options and other derivative securities. Covered transactions are not limited to those involving your direct ownership, but also include any transaction in which you have a direct or indirect pecuniary interest. For example, you may be deemed to have an interest in transactions in Sunoco held by your family members, if such securities were originally acquired your service or employment as a Sunoco executive officer or director.
equity security
in connection
Equity securitie
equity securities
in connection with
6. If you engage in a transaction that violates these rules, you can be required to disgorge your profits from the transaction to Sunoco and may be subject to civil and criminal penalties.
The rules summarized above are complex, and the civil and criminal penalties that could be imposed upon directors and executive officers who violate them could be severe. Please contact me at 1818 Market Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103 or 215.977.3000 before engaging in any transaction involving Sunoco securities during the SunCAP blackout period or if you believe that any such transaction in which you have a pecuniary interest may occur during the SunCAP blackout period, or for other inquiries related to the SunCAP blackout period.
We will send you a reminder copy of this notice closer to the commencement of the SunCAP blackout period.
 


