FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20120221165703.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The press release announcing the after-tax financial results for the Company's 2011 fourth quarter is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. These results update the preliminary pretax results that were provided by the Company on February 2, 2012. There were no changes to the previously reported pretax amounts.
The information in this report, being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and is not incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibits to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Sunoco, Inc.
1818 Market Street, Suite 1500
Philadelphia, PA 19103
 
    Thomas Golembeski (media) 215-977-6298
    Clare McGrory (investors) 215-977-6764
PHILADELPHIA, February 15, 2012  Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE: SUN) today updated the information contained in its preliminary release on pretax earnings on February 2, 2012 to include the tax provision and after-tax results. There were no changes to the previously reported pretax amounts. Sunoco reported a net loss attributable to Sunoco shareholders of $362 million ($3.39 per share diluted) for the fourth quarter of 2011 versus net income attributable to Sunoco shareholders of $87 million ($0.72 per share diluted) for the fourth quarter of 2010. Excluding special items, Sunoco had income of $5 million ($0.05 per share diluted) for the fourth quarter of 2011 versus income of $13 million ($0.11 per share diluted) for the fourth quarter of 2010. Key fourth quarter details include:
 
 
 
 
The discussion of pretax business results below is unchanged from the preliminary release on February 2. The following updated information for the fourth quarter of 2011 has been provided in this release:
 
 
 
 
 
 
DETAILS OF FOURTH QUARTER RESULTS
Logistics
Logistics earned $66 million pretax in the fourth quarter of 2011 versus $35 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. The increase in earnings was primarily due to higher crude oil sales volumes and margins which benefitted from market-related opportunities. Pipeline earnings benefitted from continued strong demand for crude oil in West Texas. Higher earnings attributable to recent acquisitions and organic growth projects also contributed to the improved results.
Retail Marketing
Retail Marketing earned $40 million pretax in the current quarter versus $1 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. The increase in earnings was primarily attributable to higher retail gasoline and distillate margins, partially offset by lower gasoline sales volumes.
Refining and Supply
Refining and Supply had a pretax loss of $117 million in the current quarter versus $17 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. The decrease in earnings was primarily the result of lower realized margins and production volumes. These negative factors were partially offset by lower expenses. Margins deteriorated throughout the fourth quarter during which market margins for gasoline were frequently negative. Margins were also impacted by high premiums for crude oil versus the Dated Brent crude oil benchmark. Production volumes were impacted by the idling of the Marcus Hook facility during the fourth quarter. The overall crude utilization rate was 81 percent for the quarter, down from 90 percent in the third quarter of 2011.
Coke
Coke earned $9 million pretax in the fourth quarter of 2011 versus $25 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. The decrease in earnings was largely attributable to lower coke sales revenues as a result of the Jewell contract restructuring with ArcelorMittal in January 2011, higher general and administrative costs largely associated with the relocation of SunCoke Energy's corporate offices and additional staffing costs related to becoming a public company and Sunoco's reduced ownership interest in SunCoke Energy.
Discontinued Chemicals Operations
Discontinued chemicals operations had pretax income of $3 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 versus $6 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
OTHER
Corporate administrative expenses were $17 million pretax in the current quarter versus $27 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. The decrease was largely driven by lower staffing and incentive compensation costs.
 
Net financing expenses and other were $32 million pretax in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to $27 million in the fourth quarter of 2010. Increased interest expense attributable to new borrowings of Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. and SunCoke Energy, Inc. was partially offset by higher interest income.
INCOME TAXES
Excluding the impact of special items, the tax benefit on the $48 million pretax loss attributable to Sunoco, Inc. shareholders for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $53 million compared to a tax benefit of $17 million on a pretax loss of $4 million during the fourth quarter of 2010. The increase in the tax benefit was largely the result of higher tax credits in the 2011 fourth quarter under the effective tax rate method as the fourth quarter represented a higher percentage of full year results in 2011 as compared to 2010. The higher pretax loss in 2011 also resulted in a higher tax benefit. Both periods included adjustments to the respective tax benefit as a result of the reconciliation of the prior year tax provisions to the tax returns filed.
SPECIAL ITEMS
During the fourth quarter of 2011, Sunoco recorded a $387 million noncash provision ($230 million after tax) to write down assets at the Philadelphia and Marcus Hook refineries to their estimated fair values and recorded provisions for severance, contract terminations and idling expenses of $243 million ($144 million after tax); recognized a $21 million gain ($12 million after tax) largely attributable to the liquidation of a portion of the refined product LIFO inventories related to the idling of the Marcus Hook refinery; recorded a $3 million net pretax loss ($1 million after tax) primarily related to prior divestments of its Toledo refinery and discontinued chemicals operations; and recorded a $4 million tax provision adjustment related to the March 2010 sale of the polypropylene chemicals business. The total net impact of special items during the fourth quarter of 2011 was a charge of $612 million ($367 million after tax).
During the fourth quarter of 2010, Sunoco recognized a $168 million gain ($100 million after tax) from the liquidation of crude oil and refined product LIFO inventories primarily resulting from the permanent shutdown of the Eagle Point Refinery in the fourth quarter of 2009; recorded a $24 million provision ($14 million after tax) primarily for additional asset write-downs attributable to a decline in the fair market value of certain assets of the Eagle Point refinery; and recorded a $21 million provision ($12 million after tax) for pension settlement losses and accruals for employee terminations and related costs in connection with ongoing business improvement initiatives. The total net impact of special items during the fourth quarter of 2010 was income of $123 million ($74 million after tax).
Sunoco is a leading logistics and retail company. The company owns the general partner interest of Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. (NYSE: SXL), which consists of a 2-percent ownership interest and incentive distribution rights, and owns a 32 percent interest in the Partnership's limited partner units. Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P. is an owner and operator of complementary pipeline, terminal and crude oil acquisition and marketing assets. Sunoco also has a network of approximately 4,900 retail locations in 23 states.
 
Those statements made in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are based upon assumptions by the Company concerning future conditions, any or all of which ultimately may prove to be inaccurate, and upon the current knowledge, beliefs and expectations of Company management. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. The Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or alter its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and involve significant known and unknown risks and uncertainties (many of which are beyond the control of the Company) that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in this release.
Such risks and uncertainties include economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting the Company's business, as well as uncertainties related to the outcomes of pending or future litigation, legislation, or regulatory actions. Among such risks are: changes in crude oil or natural gas prices, refining, marketing and chemicals margins, or other market conditions affecting the oil and gas industry; higher-than-expected costs of, or delays in, planned development or completion of repair projects, capital projects, acquisitions, or dispositions; operational interruptions, unforeseen technical difficulties and/or changes in technical or operating conditions; general domestic and international economic and political conditions, wars and acts of terrorism or sabotage; the outcome of commercial negotiations; the actions of competitors or regulators; the competitiveness of alternate-energy sources or product substitutes; technological developments; liability resulting from pending or future litigation; significant investment or product changes and/or liability for remedial actions or assessments under existing or future environmental regulations; gains and losses related to the acquisition, disposition or impairment of assets; recapitalizations; access to, or significantly higher costs of, capital; the effects of changes in accounting rules applicable to the Company; and changes in tax, environmental and other laws and regulations applicable to the Company's businesses. Unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this release also could have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements.
In accordance with the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company has included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and in its subsequent Form 10-Q and Form 8-K filings, cautionary language identifying other important factors (though not necessarily all such factors) that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. For more information concerning these factors, see the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings, available on the Company's website at www.SunocoInc.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


