FILE:SUN/SUN-8K-20121011172233.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Changes in Control of Registrant	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Changes in Control of Registrant
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 5, 2012, Sunoco, Inc. (the "Company") terminated its $800 million secured revolving credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement"), which was entered into on November 22, 2011 with a syndicate of banks and financial institutions, including JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent. The Credit Agreement had a final maturity date of November 22, 2012, and at the time of termination, no borrowings were outstanding thereunder. Simultaneous with the termination of the Credit Agreement, the Company terminated the Pledge and Security Agreement, the Pledge Agreement and the other collateral documents pursuant to which the Company's obligations under the Credit Agreement were secured by certain of the Company's assets.
 
On October 5, 2012, Energy Transfer Partners, L.P. ("ETP") completed the acquisition of the Company, pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 29, 2012, as amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto, dated as of June 15, 2012 (the "Merger Agreement"), by and among ETP, Energy Transfer Partners GP, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("ETP GP"), Sam Acquisition Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of ETP ("Merger Sub"), the Company and, for limited purposes set forth therein, Energy Transfer Equity, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership ("ETE"). Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub merged with and into the Company (the "Merger"), with the Company surviving the Merger.
At the effective time of the Merger on October 5, 2012 (the "Effective Time"), each share of the Company's common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (other than shares held by the Company in treasury and shares held by ETP or Merger Sub or by any wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company, ETP or Merger Sub immediately prior to the Effective Time) was converted into the right to receive $25.00 in cash and 0.5245 of an ETP common unit (the "Standard Mix of Consideration"). In lieu of receiving the Standard Mix of Consideration, the Company's shareholders could instead elect to receive, for each share of the Company's common stock, either (i) $50.00 in cash (the "Cash Consideration") or (ii) 1.0490 ETP common units (the "Unit Consideration"); that the Cash Consideration and the Unit Consideration were each subject to proration to ensure that the aggregate amount of cash paid and the aggregate number of ETP common units issued in the Merger was the same that would be paid and issued if each share of the Company's common stock had been converted into the Standard Mix of Consideration.
provided
The election deadline for the merger consideration was October 1, 2012 and the notice of guaranteed delivery deadline was October 4, 2012. Based on the final results of the merger consideration elections and the terms of the Merger Agreement:
 
 
 
 
No fractional ETP common units will be issued in the Merger, and the Company's shareholders will receive cash in lieu of fractional ETP common units.
Contemporaneously with the closing of the Merger and as provided in the Merger Agreement, the Company contributed to ETP $2.0 billion in cash and the equity interests of Sunoco Partners LLC (which currently holds the 2% general partner interest, incentive distribution rights, and a 32.4% limited partner interest in Sunoco Logistics Partners, L.P. ("SXL")), in exchange for 90,706,000 newly issued Class F units of ETP (the "Class F Units") (such transaction referred to herein as the "Sunoco Logistics Restructuring"). Additionally, immediately following the closing of the Merger, ETE contributed its interest in Southern Union Company ("Southern Union") to ETP Holdco Corporation ("ETP Holdco"), in exchange for a 60% equity interest in ETP Holdco. In conjunction with ETE's contribution, ETP contributed its interest in the Company (exclusive of its interest in SXL) to ETP Holdco and retained a 40% equity interest in ETP Holdco. These transactions are referred to herein as the "Holdco Restructuring."
As a result of the Merger, the Sunoco Logistics Restructuring and the Holdco Restructuring, ETP and ETE own an indirect 40% and 60% equity interest, respectively, in both the Company and Southern Union, while ETP owns the general partner interest, incentive distribution rights and a 32.4% limited partner interest in SXL. ETE owns the general partner interest, incentive distribution rights and 52.5 million common units representing limited partner interests in ETP.
 
In connection with the consummation of the Merger, the New York Stock Exchange (the "Exchange") was notified that each outstanding share of the Company's common stock was converted into the right to receive the merger consideration described above, subject to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement. Sunoco requested that the Exchange file a notification of removal from listing on Form 25 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") with respect to the delisting of the Company's shares of common stock. The Company's common stock was delisted and removed from trading on the Exchange on October 5, 2012.
 
Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, each share of the Company's common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time of the Merger (other than shares held by the Company in treasury and shares held by ETP or Merger Sub or by any wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company, ETP or Merger Sub immediately prior to the Effective Time) was converted into the right to receive the merger consideration as described above.
At the Effective Time of the Merger, holders of the Company's shares common stock ceased to have any rights as stockholders of the Company, other than the right to receive the merger consideration as set forth above.
Each award of stock options outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time of the Merger vested as of the Effective Time and was converted into the right to receive a cash payment equal to (a) the number of shares of the Company's common stock subject to the stock option, multiplied by (b) the excess, if any, of $50.00 over the per share exercise price of the stock option, less any applicable withholding or other taxes.
Each award of restricted share units and performance share units outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time of the Merger vested as of the Effective Time and was converted into the right to receive an amount in cash equal to (a) the number of shares of the Company's common stock subject to such award multiplied by (b) $50.00 (or, in the case of awards granted prior to March 1, 2012, the highest trading price per share of the Company's common stock as reflected in the Wall Street Journal during the 60-day period immediately preceding the Effective Time of the Merger, if greater than $50.00), less any applicable withholding or other taxes. For each performance share unit with respect to which the Effective Time of the Merger occurs prior to the first anniversary of the grant date and for each performance share unit award granted in 2012, the number of shares of the Company's common stock subject to such award was deemed to equal the target number of shares of the Company's common stock subject to such award. For each other performance share unit award, the number of shares of the Company's common stock subject to such award was deemed to equal the greater of (x) the target number of shares of the
 
Company's common stock subject to such award, and (y) the number of shares of the Company's common stock that would be earned with respect to such award based on the Company's actual performance immediately prior to the Effective Time of the Merger. A holder of restricted share units or performance share units is entitled to payment of any accrued cash dividend equivalents corresponding to such units in connection with the cash-out of the underlying units, less any applicable withholding or other taxes.
Each award granted under the Company's Leadership Recognition Plan denominated in shares of the Company's common stock outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time of the Merger vested as of the Effective Time and was converted into the right to receive an amount in cash equal to (a) the number of shares of the Company's common stock subject to such award multiplied by (b) $50.00, less any applicable withholding or other taxes.
At the Effective Time of the Merger, each account under the Company's Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan I, the Company's Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan II, the Company's Deferred Compensation Plan and the Company's Executive Involuntary Deferred Compensation Plan denominated in shares of the Company's common stock was converted into a vested obligation to pay an amount in cash equal to the total number of shares of the Company's common stock subject to such deferred share account multiplied by $50.00, plus, other than with respect to the Company's Executive Involuntary Deferred Compensation Plan, interest at a rate of 120% of the long-term applicable federal rate from the Effective Time through the applicable payment date (less all applicable withholding and other taxes).
The information in Item 2.01 is incorporated herein by reference.
 
As a result of the Merger, a change of control of Sunoco occurred on October 5, 2012 and, following the consummation of the ETP Holdco Restructuring, ETP and ETE will indirectly own a 40% and 60% equity interest, respectively, in the Company.
ETP's source of funds for the merger consideration include ETP common units, funds from ETP's revolving credit facility and cash contributed to ETP from the Company in connection with the Sunoco Logistics Restructuring.
The information in Item 2.01 and 3.03 is incorporated herein by reference.
 
At the Effective Time of the Merger, each of the members of the Company's board of directors resigned from the board and ceased to be directors of the Company. The members of the Company's board immediately prior to the Effective Time of the Merger were Messrs. John P. Jones, III, Chris C. Casciato, James G. Kaiser, William H. Easter, III, Gary W. Edwards, John K. Wulff and Mmes Irene C. Britt and Ursula O. Fairbairn.
Effective on October 5, 2012, the following individuals were elected to the Company's board of directors: Kelcy Warren, Marshall S. (Mackie) McCrea, III, John W. McReynolds, Thomas P. Mason and Martin Salinas, Jr.
At the Effective Time of the Merger, the following officers of the Company were replaced with officers of Merger Sub pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement: Brian P. MacDonald, President and Chief Executive Officer; Michael J. Colavita, Senior Vice President and Interim Chief Financial Officer; Joseph P. Krott, Comptroller; Stacy L. Fox, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary; and Dennis Zeleny, Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer.
Effective on October 5, 2012, Robert W. Owens was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, Martin Salinas, Jr. was appointed Chief Financial Officer and Thomas P. Mason was appointed Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary.
 
On October 5, 2012, the Company amended and restated its articles of incorporation and bylaws. Copies of the articles of incorporation and bylaws are attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and Exhibit 3.2, respectively.
 
On October 5, 2012, ETP and the Company issued a joint press release in connection with the completion of the Merger. The full text of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
1. The name of the corporation is .
SUNOCO, INC
2. The address of the corporation's registered office in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania which is located in the County of Philadelphia is 1735 Market Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103.
3. (a) The corporation shall have the authority to issue 10,000 shares of common stock, without par value.
(b) The shares of the corporation shall be represented by uncertificated shares, except as required by applicable law, including those shares represented by a certificate that is issued and outstanding which shall continue to be represented thereby until the certificate is surrendered to the corporation. Within a reasonable time after the issuance, transfer, or conversion of uncertificated shares, the corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written statement of the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates pursuant to Section 1528 of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law.
4. The holders of common stock shall have one vote per share and shall not be entitled to cumulate their votes in the election of directors.
5. The number of directors which constitute the whole Board of Directors of the corporation shall be as specified in the bylaws of the corporation. The election of directors need not be by written ballot unless the bylaws of the corporation shall so provide.
6. These Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation may be amended in the manner prescribed at the time by statute, and all rights conferred upon shareholders in these Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation are granted subject to their reservation.
7. To the fullest extent permitted by law, a director of the corporation shall not be personally liable, as such, for monetary damages (including, without limitation, any judgment, amount paid in settlement, penalty, punitive damages or expense of any nature (including,
without limitation, attorneys' fees and disbursements)) for any action taken, or any failure to take any action, unless (a) the director has breached or failed to perform the duties of his or her office under these Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, the bylaws of the corporation or applicable provisions of law and (b) the breach or failure to perform constitutes self-dealing, willful misconduct or recklessness. Any repeal or modification of this section shall not adversely affect any right or protection existing at the time of such repeal or modification to which any person may be entitled under this section. The immunities conferred by this section shall not be exclusive of any other immunity which the corporation may now or hereafter grant, or any person may have or thereafter acquire, under any statute, any other provision of the corporation's Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, Bylaw, agreement, vote of disinterested directors, or otherwise. The rights conferred by this section shall continue as to any person who has ceased to be a director of the corporation and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such person.
8. Directors and officers of the corporation will be indemnified by the corporation as of right to the fullest extent now or hereafter permitted by the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in connection with any actual or threatened civil, criminal, administrative or investigative action, suit or proceeding (whether brought by or in the name of the corporation or otherwise) arising out of their service to the corporation or to another organization at the request of the corporation. Persons who are not directors or officers of the corporation may be similarly indemnified in respect of such service to the extent authorized at any time by the Board of Directors of the corporation. The corporation may purchase and maintain insurance to protect itself and any such director, officer or other person against any liability asserted against any such person whether or not the corporation has the power to indemnify such person against such liability. The provisions of this Article (a) are applicable to actions, suits or proceedings commenced after the adoption hereof, whether arising from acts or omissions occurring before or after the adoption hereof, (b) are deemed to be a contract with each director, officer and other person referred to in this Article who serves in such capacity at any time while this Article is in effect, and each such person is deemed to be serving in reliance on the provisions of this Article, (c) will continue as to directors, officers and other persons who have ceased to render such service and (d) will inure to the benefit of the heirs and legal representatives of the directors, officers and other persons referred to in this Article. Any amendment or repeal of this Article or adoption of any additional Article, and any amendment to the Bylaws of the corporation, which has the effect of reducing or eliminating the rights granted under this Article, will operate prospectively only and will not have any effect with respect to any action taken, or any failure to act, by the directors, officers and other persons referred to in this Article prior to the effective date of such amendment or repeal.
9. In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by statute, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal the bylaws of the corporation.
 

Exhibit 3.2
Section 1. . The registered office shall be located in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Registered Office
Section 2. . The corporation may also have offices at such other places both within and without the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as the board of directors may from time to time determine or the business of the corporation may require.
Other Offices
Section 1. . All meetings of the shareholders shall be held at such geographic location within or without the Commonwealth, as may be from time to time fixed or determined by the board of directors. One or more shareholders may participate in a meeting of the shareholders by means of conference telephone or other electronic technology by means of which all persons participating in the meeting may hear each other. If a meeting of the shareholders is held by means of the Internet or other electronic communications technology in a fashion pursuant to which the shareholders have the opportunity to read or hear the proceedings substantially concurrently with their occurrence, vote on matters submitted to the shareholders and pose questions to the directors, the meeting need not be held at a particular geographic location. The presence or participation, including voting and taking other action, at a meeting of shareholders, or the expression of consent or dissent to corporate action, by a shareholder by conference telephone or other electronic means, including, without limitation, the Internet, shall constitute the presence of, or vote or action by, or consent or dissent of the shareholder for the purposes herein.
Generally
Section 2. . An annual meeting of the shareholders shall be held in each calendar year on such date and time as shall be fixed by the board of directors. At such meeting, the shareholders shall elect by a majority vote a board of directors, and transact such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting.
Annual Meetings
Section 3. . Special meetings of the shareholders, for any purpose or purposes, unless otherwise prescribed by statute or by the articles of incorporation, may be called at any time by the president, a majority of the board of directors, or the shareholders entitled to cast at least a majority of the votes that all shareholders are entitled to
Special Meetings
 
cast at the particular meeting, upon written request delivered to the secretary of the corporation. Such request shall specify the purpose or purposes of the proposed meeting. Upon receipt of any such request, it shall be the duty of the secretary to schedule a special meeting of the shareholders to be held on such date, not more than sixty days thereafter, as the secretary may fix. If the secretary shall neglect to issue such call, the person or persons making the request may issue the call.
Section 4. . Notice of every meeting of the shareholders, specifying the place, date and hour and the general nature of the business of the meeting, shall be given at least five days prior to the meeting, unless a greater period of notice is required by statute, to each shareholder entitled to vote thereat.
Notice
Section 5. . The presence of shareholders entitled to cast at least a majority of the votes that all shareholders are entitled to cast on a particular matter to be acted upon at the meeting, present in person or represented by proxy, shall be requisite and shall constitute a quorum for purposes of consideration and action on such matter, except as otherwise provided by statute or by the articles of incorporation or by these bylaws.
Quorum
Section 6. . Whenever any corporate action is to be taken by vote of the shareholders of the corporation, it shall be authorized upon receiving the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast by all shareholders entitled to vote thereon, unless the action is one upon which, by express provision of statute or of the articles of incorporation or of these bylaws, a different vote is required in which case such express provision shall govern and control the authorization of such action.
Voting
Section 7. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of the shareholders or of a class of shareholders may be taken without a meeting upon the consent of shareholders who would have been entitled to cast the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize the action at a meeting at which all shareholders entitled to vote thereon were present and voting, which consent or consents shall be filed with the Secretary; provided, that no such action shall become effective until after 10 days' prior written notice of the action has been given to each shareholder entitled to vote thereon who has not consented thereto.
Consent in Lieu of a Meeting
Section 1. . The business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed under the direction of its board of directors which may exercise all such powers of the corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the articles of incorporation or by these bylaws directed or required to be exercised and done by the shareholders.
Authority
Section 2. . The board of directors shall consist of one or more members as determined from time to time by resolution of the board. The director(s) shall be elected at the annual meeting of the shareholders, except as provided in Section 3 of this Article, and each director shall hold office for one year and until his successor is
Number, Tenure and Manner of Election
 
selected and qualified or until his earlier death, resignation or removal. A decrease in the number of directors shall not have the effect of shortening the term of any incumbent director. Directors need not be shareholders.
Section 3. . Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors shall be filled by a majority vote of the remaining number of the board, though less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director, and each person so selected shall be a director for the balance of the unexpired term.
Vacancies
Section 4. . The board of directors of the corporation may hold meetings, both regular and special, either within or without the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Members of the board of directors or of any committee thereof may participate in a meeting of the board of directors or of any committee, as the case may be, by means of conference telephone or other electronic technology by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at the meeting.
Meetings Generally
Section 5. . The board of directors shall hold an annual meeting immediately after the annual meeting of shareholders, and may hold such other regular meetings without notice at such geographic location within or without the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as shall from time to time be determined by the board.
Regular Meetings
Section 6. . Special meetings of the board may be called on two days' notice to each director. Special meetings shall be called by the chairman, president or secretary on the request of at least two directors.
Special Meetings
Section 7. . At all meetings of the board, a majority of the directors in office shall be necessary to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the acts of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the acts of the board of directors, except as may be otherwise specifically provided by statute or by the articles of incorporation.
Quorum and Voting
Section 8. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of the directors may be taken without a meeting if, prior or subsequent to the action, a consent or consents thereto by all of the directors in office is filed with the secretary of the corporation.
Consent in Lieu of a Meeting
Section 9. . To the fullest extent that the laws of the Commonwealth, as the same may be amended from time to time, permit elimination or limitation of the liability of directors, no director shall be personally liable for monetary damages for any action taken, or any failure to take any action, in his capacity as a director, unless (1) the director has breached or failed to perform the duties of his office, and (2) the breach or failure to perform constitutes self-dealing, willful misconduct or recklessness; provided, however, that the foregoing provision shall not eliminate or limit (i) the responsibility or liability of the director pursuant to any criminal statute, or (ii) the liability of a director for the payment of taxes pursuant to local, state, or Federal law. The provisions of this Section: (a) shall be deemed to be a contract with each person who serves as a director at any time while this Section is in effect,
Limitation of Liability
 
and each such director shall be deemed to be serving in reliance on the provisions of this Section, (b) shall continue as to each person who has ceased to be a director which respect to the periods when he was a director and (c) shall inure to the benefit of each director's heirs and legal representatives. Any amendment or repeal of this Section, and any amendment to the articles or any other provision of these ByLaws, which has the effect of increasing the personal liability of directors shall operate prospectively only and shall not have any effect with respect to any action taken, or any failure to act, by a director prior to the effective date of such amendment or repeal.
Section 1. . Notices to directors and shareholders shall be given to the person either personally or by sending a copy thereof (i) by first class or express mail, postage prepaid, or courier service, charges prepaid, to his postal address appearing on the books of the corporation or, in the case of directors, supplied by him to the corporation for the purpose of notice or (ii) by facsimile transmission, e-mail or other electronic communication to his facsimile number or address for e-mail or other electronic communications supplied by him to the corporation for the purpose of notice. Notice pursuant to subparagraph (i) above shall be deemed to have been given to the person entitled thereto when deposited in the United States mail or with a courier service for delivery to that person. Notice pursuant to subparagraph (ii) shall be deemed to have been given to the person entitled thereto when sent. A notice of meeting shall specify the day and hour and geographic location, if any, of the meeting and any other information required by law. When a meeting of shareholders is adjourned, it shall not be necessary to give any notice of the adjourned meeting or of the business to be transacted at an adjourned meeting, other than by announcement at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken, unless the board fixes a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Notices
Section 2. . Whenever any written notice is required to be given under the provisions of law or the articles or bylaws, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to the notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of the notice. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, a meeting need be specified in the waiver of notice of the meeting. In the case of a special meeting of shareholders, the waiver of notice shall specify the general nature of the business to be transacted. Attendance of a person at any meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of the meeting except where a person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting was not lawfully called or convened.
Waiver
Section 1. . The officers of the corporation shall be chosen by the board of directors and shall be a president, a secretary and a treasurer, or persons who shall act as such, regardless of the name or title by which they may be designated, elected or appointed. The board may select such other officers and assistant officers as it may authorize from time to time. The board of directors shall elect the officers and assistant officers at its annual meeting held immediately after each annual meeting of shareholders. Each officer shall hold office for a term of one year and until his successor has been selected and qualified or until his earlier death, resignation or removal. The salaries of all officers and agents of the corporation shall be fixed by the board of directors.
Number, Tenure and Manner of Election
 
Section 2. . The officers of the corporation shall have such authority and perform such duties as shall be provided by or pursuant to the bylaws or as shall be determined from time to time by the board.
Authority and Duties
Section 3. . Any officer or agent of the corporation may be removed at any time, with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the board of directors. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the corporation shall be filled by the board of directors.
Removal
Section 4. . The chairman of the board, if one is elected, shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and of the board of directors and shall perform such other duties as may from time to time be requested by the board of directors.
Chairman
Section 5. . The president shall be the chief executive officer of the corporation, shall, in the absence of a chairman of the board, preside at all meetings of the shareholders and the board of directors, shall have general and active management of the business of the corporation and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the board of directors are carried into effect. The president shall execute bonds, mortgages and other contracts requiring a seal, under the seal of the corporation, except where required or permitted by law to be otherwise signed and executed and except where the signing and execution thereof shall be expressly delegated by the board of directors to some other officer or agent of the corporation.
President
Section 6. . The vice-president, or if there shall be more than one, the vice-presidents (if any) in the order determined by the board of directors, shall, at the request or in the absence or disability of the president, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the president, and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the board of directors may from time to time prescribe.
Vice-President(s)
Section 7. . The secretary shall attend all meetings of the board of directors and all meetings of the shareholders and record all the proceedings of the meetings of the corporation and of the board of directors in a book to be kept for that purpose and shall perform like duties for any committee when required. The secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the shareholders and special meetings of the board of directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or president, under whose supervision he shall be. The secretary shall keep in safe custody the seal of the corporation and, when authorized by the board of directors, affix the same to any instrument requiring it and, when so affixed, it shall be attested by his signature or by the signature of an assistant secretary. The board of directors may give general authority to any other officer to affix the seal of the corporation and to attest the affixing by his signature.
Secretary
Section 8. . The assistant secretary, or if there be more than one, the assistant secretaries (if any) in the order determined by the board of directors, shall, in the absence or disability of the secretary, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the secretary and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the board of directors may from time to time prescribe.
Assistant Secretary(ies)
 
Section 9. . The treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the corporation and shall deposit all monies and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the board of directors. The treasurer shall disburse the funds of the corporation as may be ordered by the board of directors, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the president and the board of directors, at its regular meetings, or when the board of directors so requires, an account of all his transactions as treasurer and of the financial condition of the corporation.
Treasurer
Section 10. . The assistant treasurer, or if there shall be more than one, the assistant treasurers (if any) in the order determined by the board of directors, shall, in the absence or disability of the treasurer, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the treasurer and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the board of directors may from time to time prescribe.
Assistant Treasurer(s)
Section 1. . Except to the extent that the Articles of Incorporation provide otherwise, the shares of the corporation shall be represented by a certificate or certificates. Any such share certificates of the corporation shall be numbered and registered in a share register as they are issued. They shall exhibit the name of the registered holder and the number and class of shares and the series, if any, represented thereby and the par value of each share or a statement that such shares are without par value as the case may be. If more than one class of shares is authorized, the certificate shall state that the corporation will furnish to any shareholder, upon request and without charge a full or summary statement of the designations, preferences, limitations, and relative rights of the shares of each class authorized to be issued, and the variations thereof between the shares of each series, and the authority of the board of directors to fix and determine the relative rights and preferences of subsequent series. Every such share certificate shall be executed, by facsimile or otherwise, by the president or vice-president and the secretary or an assistant secretary or the treasurer or an assistant treasurer and shall be sealed with the corporate seal which may be facsimile, engraved or printed.
Share Certificates
Section 2. . To the extent that the shares of the corporation are represented by certificates, the board of directors may, in its discretion, direct a new certificate or certificates to be issued in place of any certificate or certificates theretofore issued by the corporation alleged to have been lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the share certificate to be lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken. When authorizing such issue of a new certificate or certificates, the board of directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken, certificate or certificates, or his legal representative, to advertise the same in such manner as it shall require and give the corporation a bond in such sum as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the corporation with respect to the certificate or certificates alleged to have been lost, destroyed or wrongfully taken.
Lost, Destroyed or Stolen Certificates
 
 3. . Upon compliance with provisions restricting the transfer or registration of transfer of shares of stock, if any, transfers or registration of transfers of shares of stock of the corporation shall be made only on the stock ledger of the corporation by the registered holder thereof, or by his attorney thereunto authorized by power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary of the corporation or with a transfer agent or a registrar, if any, and, in the case of shares represented by certificates, on surrender of the certificate or certificates for such shares of stock properly endorsed and the payment of all taxes due thereon. To the extent that shares of the corporation's stock are uncertificated, the corporation may adopt a system of issuance, recordation and transfer of its shares by electronic means provided, however, any system so adopted shall not become effective as to issued and outstanding securities until the certificates therefore have been surrendered to the corporation.
Section
Transfer of Shares
Section 4. . The corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares as the holder in fact thereof and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share on the part of any other person, and shall not be liable for any registration or transfer of shares which are registered or to be registered in the name of a fiduciary or the nominee of a fiduciary unless made with actual knowledge that a fiduciary or nominee of a fiduciary is committing a breach of trust in requesting such registration or transfer, or with knowledge of such facts that its participation therein amounts to bad faith.
Registered Shareholders
Section 1. . Subject to Section 3 of this Article, the corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the corporation), by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another domestic or foreign corporation for profit or not-for-profit, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceedings, had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.
Third-Party Actions
nolo contendere
Section 2. . Subject to Section 3 of this Article, the corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the
Derivative and Corporate Actions
 
corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another domestic or foreign corporation profit or not-for-profit, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the corporation and except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person has been adjudged to be liable to the corporation unless and only to the extent that the court in which such action or suit was brought determines upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which such court deems proper.
Section 3. . Any indemnification under Section 1 or 2 of this Article (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the corporation only if permitted by law and as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of any person described in said Sections is proper in the circumstances because he has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in said Sections. Such determination shall be made (l) by the board of directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, or (2) if such a quorum is not obtainable, or if obtainable and a majority vote of a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in written opinion, or (3) by the shareholders of the corporation.
Procedure
Section 4. . Expenses (including attorney's fees) incurred in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding referred to in this Article may be paid by the corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of any person described in this Article to repay such amount if it is ultimately determined that he is not entitled to be indemnified by the corporation as authorized in this Article. Advancement of expenses shall be authorized by the board of directors.
Advancing Expenses
Section 5. . The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, the other Sections of this Article shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under any agreement, vote of shareholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in his official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office.
Supplementary Coverage
Section 6. . The board of directors may authorize the corporation to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another domestic or foreign corporation for profit or not-for-profit, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of this Article.
Power to Purchase Insurance
Section 7. . The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Article shall, unless otherwise
Duration and Extent of Coverage
 
provided when authorized or ratified, continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person. Unless otherwise restricted by law, the provisions of this Article shall remain in full force and effect. If any word, clause or provision of this Article or any award made hereunder shall for any reason be determined to be invalid, the provisions hereof shall not otherwise be affected thereby but shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 8. . The intent of this Article is to provide for indemnification and advancement of expenses to the fullest extent permitted by statute or the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. To the extent that such statute or any successor statute may be amended or supplemented from time to time, this Article shall be amended automatically and construed so as to permit indemnification and advancement of expenses to the fullest extent from time to time permitted by law.
Intent
Section 1. . Distributions upon the shares of the corporation, subject to the provisions of the articles of incorporation, if any, may be declared by the board of directors at any regular or special meeting, pursuant to law. Distributions may be paid in cash, in property, or in its shares, subject to the provisions of the articles of incorporation. Before payment of any distributions, there may be set aside out of any funds of the corporation available for distributions such sum or sums as the directors from time to time, in their absolute discretion, think proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the corporation, or for such other purpose as the directors shall think conducive to the interest of the corporation, and the directors may modify or abolish any such reserve in the manner in which it was created.
Distributions
Section 2. . Unless otherwise agreed between this corporation and a shareholder, the directors shall cause to be sent to the shareholders (either by mail or by facsimile, e-mail or other electronic transmission to any shareholder who has supplied the corporation with a facsimile number or address for electronic transmissions for the purpose of receiving financial statements from the corporation), within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year, financial statements as of the closing date of the preceding fiscal year. Such financial statements shall include at least a balance sheet as of the close of such year and statements of income and expenses for such year, prepared on the basis of generally accepted accounting principles so as to present fairly the corporation's financial condition and the results of its operations. Statements that are audited or reviewed by a certified public accountant or a public accountant shall be accompanied by the report of such accountant, or if not so audited or reviewed by a statement of the treasurer as required by Section 1554 of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law.
Financial Report to Shareholders
Section 3. . All checks or demands for money and notes of the corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers or such other person or persons as the board of directors may from time to time designate.
Checks
 
Section 4. . The fiscal year of the corporation shall end on December 31 each year.
Fiscal Year
Section 5. . The seal of the corporation shall be of such force as the shareholders or the board of directors shall designate.
Seal
Section 6. . These bylaws, as amended and restated, are subject to, and governed by, the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law (the "PBCL") and the corporation's Articles of Incorporation (as the same may be amended and restated from time to time, the "Articles of Incorporation"). In the event of a direct conflict between the provisions of these bylaws and the mandatory provisions of the PBCL or the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation, such provisions of the PBCL or the Articles of Incorporation, as the case may be, will be controlling.
Conflicts
These bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed by (a) a majority vote of the shareholders entitled to vote thereon at any regular or special meeting duly convened after notice to the shareholders of that purpose, or (b) by a majority vote of the members of the board of directors at any regular or special meeting duly convened after notice to the directors of that purpose, except as otherwise provided herein or by law and subject to the power of the shareholders to change such action.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 Energy Transfer Partners, L.P. (NYSE:ETP) and Sunoco, Inc. (NYSE:SUN) today announced the successful completion of the previously announced merger of a wholly owned subsidiary of ETP, with and into Sunoco, with Sunoco surviving the merger as a subsidiary of ETP.
DALLAS and PHILADELPHIA, October 5, 2012
Under the terms of the merger agreement, Sunoco shareholders were able to receive, for each Sunoco common share they owned, a combination of $25.00 in cash and 0.5245 of an ETP common unit (the "Standard Mix of Consideration"). In lieu of receiving this Standard Mix of Consideration, Sunoco shareholders, for each Sunoco common share they owned, could make an election to receive $50.00 in cash (the "Cash Consideration") or 1.0490 ETP common units (the "Unit Consideration"), with such Cash Consideration and Unit Consideration subject to proration in accordance with the merger agreement. Because the Cash Consideration was oversubscribed, all holders making a cash election will have their Cash Consideration prorated and a portion of it will be substituted with ETP common units in accordance with the terms of the merger agreement. Based on the final results of the merger consideration elections:
 
 
 
 
In the aggregate, Sunoco shareholders will receive 50% of the merger consideration in cash and 50% in ETP common units. The total consideration to be paid in cash will be approximately $2.6 billion and the total consideration to be paid in equity will be approximately 54,971,724 ETP common units.
Effective with the opening of the market today, Sunoco ceased to be a publicly traded company and its common stock discontinued trading on the NYSE.
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC acted as exclusive financial advisor to ETP, with Latham & Watkins LLP and Bingham McCutchen LLP having acted as legal counsel.
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC acted as exclusive financial advisor to Sunoco and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz acted as legal counsel.
Other Transaction Details
In accordance with the terms of the merger agreement, contemporaneously with the closing of the merger, Sunoco contributed to ETP $2.0 billion in cash and the equity interests of Sunoco Partners LLC (which currently holds the 2% general partner interest, incentive distribution rights, and a 32.4% limited partner interest in Sunoco Logistics Partners, L.P. ("SXL")), in exchange for 90,706,000 newly issued Class F units of ETP. Additionally, immediately following the closing of the merger, Energy Transfer Equity, L.P. ("ETE") contributed its interest in Southern Union Company ("Southern Union") to ETP Holdco Corporation ("ETP Holdco"), in exchange for a 60% equity interest in ETP Holdco. In conjunction with ETE's contribution, ETP contributed its interest in Sunoco (exclusive of its interest in SXL) to ETP Holdco and retained a 40% equity interest in ETP Holdco.
As a result of the merger and the above transactions, ETP and ETE own an indirect 40% and 60% equity interest, respectively, in both Sunoco and Southern Union, while ETP owns the general partner interests, incentive distribution rights and a 32.4% limited partner interest in SXL.
In connection with the merger and the above transactions, ETP has agreed to become a co-obligor on approximately $965 million of aggregate principal amount of Sunoco's existing senior notes and debentures.
 (NYSE:ETP) is a publicly traded partnership owning and operating a diversified portfolio of energy assets. ETP has pipeline operations in Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, Colorado, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, New Mexico, Utah and West Virginia and owns the largest intrastate pipeline system in Texas. ETP currently has natural gas operations that include approximately 24,000 miles of gathering and transportation pipelines, treating and processing assets, and three storage facilities located in Texas. ETP also holds a 70 percent interest in Lone Star NGL, a joint venture that owns and operates NGL storage, fractionation and transportation assets in Texas, Louisiana and Mississippi. ETP's general partner is owned by ETE. For more information, visit the ETP website at .
Energy Transfer Partners, L.P.
www.energytransfer.com
 (NYSE:ETE) is a publicly traded partnership, which owns the general partner and 100 percent of the incentive distribution rights ("IDRs") of ETP and approximately 52.5 million ETP limited partner units; and owns the general partner and 100 percent of the IDRs of Regency Energy Partners LP (NYSE:RGP) and approximately 26.3 million Regency limited partner units. The ETE family of companies owns approximately 45,000 miles of natural gas and natural gas liquids pipelines. For more information, visit the ETE website at .
Energy Transfer Equity, L.P.
www.energytransfer.com
is a leading logistics and retail company, with a network of approximately 4,900 retail locations in 23 states.
Sunoco, Inc.
(NYSE:SXL), headquartered in Philadelphia, is a master limited partnership that owns and operates a logistics business consisting of a geographically diverse portfolio of complementary pipeline, terminalling and crude oil acquisition and marketing assets. The Refined Products Pipelines consist of approximately 2,500 miles of refined products pipelines located in the northeast, midwest and southwest United States, and equity interests in
Sunoco Logistics Partners, L.P.
four refined products pipelines. The Crude Oil Pipelines consist of approximately 5,400 miles of crude oil pipelines, located principally in Oklahoma and Texas. The Terminal Facilities consist of approximately 42 million shell barrels of refined products and crude oil terminal capacity (including approximately 22 million shell barrels of capacity at the Nederland Terminal on the Gulf Coast of Texas and approximately 5 million shell barrels of capacity at the Eagle Point terminal on the banks of the Delaware River in New Jersey). The Crude Oil Acquisition and Marketing business involves the acquisition and marketing of crude oil and is principally conducted in Oklahoma and Texas and consists of approximately 190 crude oil transport trucks and approximately 120 crude oil truck unloading facilities.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may include certain statements concerning expectations for the future, including statements regarding the anticipated benefits and other aspects of the transaction described above, that are forward-looking statements as defined by federal law. Such forward-looking statements are subject to a variety of known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors that are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the control of the management teams of ETE, ETP, Sunoco or SXL. Among those is the risk that the anticipated benefits from the transaction described above cannot be fully realized. An extensive list of factors that can affect future results are discussed in the reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by ETE, ETP, Sunoco and SXL. None of ETE, ETP, Sunoco or SXL undertakes any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement to reflect new information or events.
Contacts
Energy Transfer Partners, L.P.
Investor Relations:
Brent Ratliff: 214-981-0700
or
Media Relations:
Vicki Granado: 214-599-8785
Thomas Golembeski: 215-977-6298


