FILE:WU/WU-8K-20061023172630.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 23, 2006, The Western Union Company (the "Company") issued a press release relating to the Company's earnings for the third quarter of fiscal year 2006. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1. The information furnished under this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
The following is a list of the Exhibits furnished herewith.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 The Western Union Company (NYSE: WU) today reported financial results for the third quarter of 2006.
Englewood, Colo., October 23, 2006
Highlights for the quarter include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Western Union President and CEO Christina Gold commented, "We delivered third quarter results that were in line with the targets we communicated on September 18. During the quarter we saw strong, consistent growth in our international markets, which represent 60% of total Western Union revenue. This strong international performance offset softness in our domestic and Mexico businesses. Our overall performance highlights the importance of having the most geographically diverse portfolio in the industry.
"In addition, we successfully completed our separation from First Data and made progress against a number of our strategic goals including the expansion of our agent network. We operate through an agent network in more than 200 countries and territories, which now totals approximately 285,000 locations. A key element of our success is the ability to extend and add to our agent relationships. On that front, we recently renewed our relationships with Publix Super Markets, one of our largest U.S. agents, and Banamex, one of our super agents in Mexico, and we added a fifth country to our Standard Chartered Bank network. Additionally, we established many new relationships around the world  Harris Teeter in the U.S.; The Banco De La Nacion Argentina, the largest bank in Argentina; UralSib Bank, the second largest bank in Russia; and Barclays Bank in Ghana.
"I remain confident that our brand, our distribution network and our leadership position in the rapidly growing money transfer business will fuel long-term growth for the company."
 
1
Third Quarter Results
Revenue for the third quarter increased 12% to $1.1 billion from $1.0 billion a year ago. This increase was driven by 14% revenue growth in the consumer-to-consumer segment and 4% growth in the consumer-to-business segment. Vigo, which was acquired October 21, 2005, contributed $37 million of revenue in the quarter. Revenue growth excluding Vigo was 8%.
The consumer-to-consumer segment achieved transaction growth of 24%, or 15% excluding Vigo. The international business posted transaction growth of 30%, or 23% excluding Vigo.
In the third quarter, domestic money transfer transactions declined 5%. The weakness in the domestic business was primarily attributable to softness in demand among Western Union's Hispanic consumers as a result of the controversy surrounding immigration.
Western Union branded transactions from the U.S. to Mexico, which were also impacted by the immigration controversy, increased 4%. This contrasts with higher growth rates in Western Union's U.S. to Mexico corridor during 2004 and 2005.
Operating margin for the company was 29.6% for the third quarter, a 400 basis point decrease from third quarter 2005. Operating margin in the third quarter 2006 was impacted by:
 
 
 
Third quarter pre-tax income included $5.4 million in net derivative gains and $14.2 million of positive currency impact on net notes receivable from First Data Corporation affiliates.
Outlook
Gold noted, "We are extremely focused on performance within the Mexico and domestic businesses and are confident that the steps we are taking will deliver improved results over time. Meanwhile, our international business continues to grow as we expand our network and build the Western Union brand around the world. Total consumer-to-consumer transaction growth during the first three weeks of October is consistent with growth in the third quarter."
Western Union is on plan to deliver its previously stated guidance. Full-year 2006 revenue growth is expected to be in the range of 11% to 12% with operating income growth, excluding the impact of expenses related to its spin-off from First Data, of 4% to 6%.
For 2007, Western Union expects to deliver revenue growth in the range of 10% to 12%, excluding acquisitions, and operating income growth of 6% to 9%, excluding the impact of expenses related to its spin-off from First Data.
 
2
Non-GAAP Measures
Western Union's management uses operating income growth excluding the impact of expenses related to the spin-off from First Data, which is a non-GAAP measure, as it provides a more meaningful year-over-year comparison. On a GAAP basis, operating profit growth is projected to be in the range of 1% to 2% in 2006, and 3% to 6% for 2007.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP to comparable GAAP measures are available in the accompanying schedules and in the "Investor Relations" section of the company's web site at www.westernunion.com.
Investor and Analyst Conference
Western Union will hold an investor and analyst conference call tomorrow October 24 at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time. Christina Gold, CEO, will host the call. To listen to the broadcast, please log on to http://www.westernunion.com, at least 15 minutes prior to the start of the call. To participate in the call, dial 866-510-0711 (U.S.) or +1-617-597-5379 (outside the U.S.) ten minutes prior to the start of the call. The pass code is 15045493. A replay of the call will be available one hour after the call ends through November 7, 2006 at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time at 888-286-8010 (U.S.) or +1-617-801-6888 (outside the U.S.). The pass code is 54846672. A webcast replay will be available at www.westernunion.com for the same time period.
Please note: All statements made by Western Union officers on this call are the property of Western Union and subject to copyright protection. Other than the replay, Western Union has not authorized, and disclaims responsibility for, any recording, replay or distribution of any transcription of this call.
Safe Harbor Compliance Statement for Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding projected future results. Forward-looking statements include all statements that do not relate solely to historical or current facts, and generally can be identified by the use of words such as "may", "believe", "will", "expect", "project", "estimate", "anticipate", "plan", "could", "would", "likely", "intend" or "continue". All forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain as they are based on various expectations and assumptions concerning future events and they are subject to numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties which could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those projected. These factors include, but are not limited to: the impact of our spin-off from First Data Corporation; changes in immigration laws, patterns and other factors related to immigrants; the integration of significant businesses and technologies we acquire and realization of anticipated synergies from these acquisitions; technological changes, particularly with respect to e-commerce; our ability to attract and retain qualified key employees; changes in laws, regulations or industry standards affecting our businesses; changes in foreign exchange spreads on money transfer transactions; changes in the political or economic climate in countries in which we operate; continued growth in the consumer money transfer market and other markets in which we operate at rates approximating recent levels; our ability to compete effectively in the money transfer industry with respect to global and niche or corridor money transfer providers, United States and international banks, card associations, card-based payments providers and a number of other types of competitive service providers; our ability to maintain our agent network; implementation of Western Union agent agreements with governmental entities according to schedule and no interruption of relations with countries in which Western Union has or is implementing material agent agreements; successfully managing the potential both for patent protection and patent liability in the context of rapidly developing legal framework for expansive software patent protection; successfully managing credit and fraud risks from our agents and from consumers; unanticipated developments relating to lawsuits, investigations or similar matters; catastrophic events; and any material breach of security of any of our systems. For more information on important factors upon which these forward-looking statements are premised, please refer to the
 
3
information statement contained in The Western Union Company Form 10, declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
About Western Union
Western Union, together with its affiliates Orlandi Valuta and Vigo, is a leader in global money transfer, providing people with fast, reliable and convenient ways to send money around the world, pay bills and purchase money orders through a network of approximately 285,000 agent locations in more than 200 countries and territories. For more information, visit .
www.westernunion.com
 
4
 
 
5
 
 
6
 
 
7
 
 
8
 
 
9
 
(a) Represents transactions between and within foreign countries (excluding Canada and Mexico), transactions originated in the United States or Canada destined for foreign countries and foreign country transactions destined for the United States or Canada. Excludes all transactions between or within the United States and Canada and all transactions to and from Mexico as reflected in (b) and (c) below.
(b) Represents all transactions between and within the United States and Canada.
(c) Represents all transactions to and from Mexico.
 
10
Western Union believes the following measures provide meaningful information to assist management, investors, analysts, and others in understanding our financial results and to better analyze trends in our underlying business by removing the incremental expenses, as a result of the spin-off from First Data, that have resulted in comparability issues to years where such incremental expenses were not incurred. A non-GAAP financial measure should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the most comparable GAAP financial measure. A non-GAAP financial measure reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the reconciliation to the corresponding GAAP financial measure, provide a more complete understanding of our business. Users of the financial statements are encouraged to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included below.
 
(a) Non-recurring spin expenses relate to recruiting and relocation expenses associated with hiring key management positions new to our company, other employee compensation expenses and temporary labor used to develop ongoing processes.
(b) Ongoing spin expenses relate to staffing additions and related costs to replace First Data support, corporate governance, information technology, corporate branding and global affairs, benefits and payroll administration, procurement, workforce reorganization, stock compensation, and other expenses related to being a stand-alone company.
 
11


