FILE:WU/WU-8K-20070207172930.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(b)
On February 6, 2007, William D. Thomas resigned from his position of Executive Vice President and President of the Americas.
On February 6, 2007, David Barnes, Executive Vice President, Finance and Strategic Development, was appointed as Executive Vice President of United States/Canada. Mr. Barnes will continue to oversee strategic development and mergers and acquisitions for the Company, but will no longer serve in the position of co-Principal Financial Officer of the Company.
In connection with the personnel changes discussed above, Scott Scheirman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, assumed full responsibility for the Company's finance organization and is the sole Principal Financial Officer of the Company.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact:
 
The Western Union Company (NYSE: WU) today announced it has created two new business groups focused on the US/Canada and Latin America/ Mexico/ Caribbean (LACA) regions. Formerly part of the larger Americas division, the creation of two smaller organizations allows for even greater focus on important customer groups and continued response to the changing demands of Western Union's markets and consumers.
Englewood, Colo.  (Feb. 7, 2007)
Liz Alicea-Velez becomes a member of the Western Union's Executive Committee as Executive Vice President of the newly formed Latin America/Mexico/Caribbean organization. In addition to her new responsibilities, Alicea-Velez, who joined Western Union in 1992 and has held a variety of leadership roles within Latin America, Mexico and the Caribbean, continues her leadership of the Orlandi Valuta and Vigo brands.
David Barnes, Executive Vice President, assumes the leadership of the newly formed US/Canada group. Barnes joined Western Union in 2006, having previously served in the role of Chief Financial Officer at both Radio Shack Corporation and Coors U.S. In addition to his new responsibilities, Barnes will continue to manage Western Union's corporate strategy and merger and acquisitions activity, while full leadership responsibility for Western Union's Finance organization moves to Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Scott Scheirman.
"One of Western Union's key strengths has always been its understanding of and focus on its consumers," said Christina Gold, President and Chief Executive Officer, The Western Union Company. "By realigning our Americas division, we are able to create even greater focus and maximize the potential for growth in this diverse region."
 
Western Union/Americas
Page 2
Bill Thomas, who most recently served as President of the Americas region, has made the decision to depart Western Union in pursuit of other opportunities. "Western Union thanks Bill for his many years of dedicated service," continued Gold. "We wish him well in his next endeavor."
About Western Union
Western Union, together with its affiliates Orlandi Valuta and Vigo, is a leading provider of global money transfer services, providing people with fast, reliable and convenient ways to send money around the world, pay bills and purchase money orders through a network of approximately 300,000 Agent locations in over 200 countries and territories. For more information, visit www.westernunion.com.
WU-G
WU-F


