FILE:WU/WU-8K-20080131074042.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 31, 2008, The Western Union Company (the "Company") issued a press release relating to the Company's earnings for the fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2007. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1. The information furnished under this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to such filing.
 
The following is a list of the Exhibits furnished herewith.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 The Western Union Company (NYSE: WU) today reported financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2007.
Englewood, Colo., Jan. 31, 2008
Highlights for the fourth quarter include:
 
 
 
 
 
Highlights for the full year include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Western Union's revenue and earnings growth accelerated throughout the year, which enabled us to deliver our expectations for the fourth quarter, and we are pleased with these results," said President and Chief Executive Officer Christina Gold. "2007 demonstrated Western Union's strengths as a geographically diverse global company, with 65% of total annual revenue generated by our international consumer-to-consumer money transfer business. Additionally, our consumer-to-business segment continues to grow with Pago Fcil, our bill payment company in Argentina, continuing to exceed expectations."
Fourth Quarter Results
Revenue was $1.3 billion, up 12%, or 10% excluding the December 6, 2006 acquisition of Pago Fcil. Revenue also included $28 million from currency translation of the euro.
 
Total consumer-to-consumer revenue in the fourth quarter grew 12% to $1.1 billion on transaction growth of 14%. A significant portion of the growth was attributable to the continued strong performance within the international consumer-to-consumer business, which increased revenue 17% while growing transactions 19%. The international-to-international subset, those transactions that originate outside of the U.S., grew faster still, posting 25% revenue growth and 28% transaction growth. This international-to-international subset contributed 54% of Western Union's fourth quarter total revenue.
The Mexico business had flat revenue from transaction growth of 3%. As expected, the difference between revenue and transaction growth rates continued to tighten as a result of a steady Mexico pricing environment. The company's Mexico transaction growth rate continued to outpace the market, based on data released by Banco de Mexico.
The domestic business posted revenue and transaction declines of 9% and 3%, respectively.
Revenue in the consumer-to-business segment was $183 million in the quarter, growing 13%, or 4% excluding the December 2006 acquisition of Pago Fcil.
In the fourth quarter, consolidated operating income was up 9%. Operating income margin was 28% compared to 29% in last year's fourth quarter. The decrease in operating income margin was caused by the ongoing shift in business mix, reflecting stronger growth in the international business, which carries lower profit margins than in the U.S.-originated businesses, and $17 million of incremental independent public company expenses compared to $9 million in the fourth quarter of 2006.
Fourth quarter consumer-to-consumer operating income increased 11%, and operating income margin remained strong at 27.5% compared to 27.6% a year ago. Operating income growth and margin were impacted by the international and U.S. mix shift and incremental independent public company expenses, which were offset to a lesser extent by expense leverage.
Fourth quarter consumer-to-business operating income declined 3%, and operating income margin decreased to 30% from 35% a year ago. The decline was primarily due to the segment's lower-margin electronic-based services growing faster than the segment's higher-margin cash-based services and Pago Fcil, which has an operating income margin lower than the segment's average. In addition, the segment's operating income growth and margin were impacted by incremental independent public company expenses.
The tax rate was 27.4% in the fourth quarter versus 30.8% recognized in the first three quarters of 2007. The lower tax rate in the quarter was primarily due to the favorable resolution of certain tax matters.
The agent network had more than 335,000 locations at year end, which was ahead of expectations. During the quarter, Western Union took significant steps in strengthening this network by entering into new agreements and re-signing existing agreements around the world.
In November, Western Union entered into a multi-year extension with Kroger, an agent for 22 years, covering 2,400 locations. In January, the company extended its agreement with supermarket operator Delhaize America, which offers Western Union services at 1,120 U.S. locations. The re-signing of these two supermarkets maintains Western Union's strong position of having long-term agreements with eight of the 10 largest supermarkets in the United States.
 
To solidify its position in a key region, Western Union made a 25% equity investment in Grace Kennedy, a key agent in Jamaica and other Caribbean islands. The company also signed a 10-year renewal with Grupo Vimenca, with over 200 locations in the Dominican Republic.
In a significant new development, Western Union has received the required approvals to resume service in South Africa and expects to be offering services later in 2008 after a six-year absence.
In January, the company signed an agreement with Penn Traffic, a leading U.S. food retailer with over 100 locations. Penn Traffic previously offered money transfer services through a competitor. Additional notable new relationships include an agreement to offer money transfer services at over 300 China Everbright Bank branches in more than 30 cities in China, and a new relationship with the Bangladesh Post.
Significant renewal agreements included: Correo Argentino, representing 1,300 postal locations, Deutsche Postbank, covering 3,200 locations in Germany and the Kenya Post Office Savings Bank. In the United States, TCF Bank renewed its agreement to offer Western Union services at 360 locations across seven states.
Full Year Results
Revenue for 2007 was $4.9 billion, a 10% increase, or 8% excluding the acquisition of Pago Fcil. Full-year revenue included $79 million from currency translation of the euro.
Total consumer-to-consumer revenue for 2007 grew 9% to $4.1 billion on transaction growth of 14% over 2006 with a significant portion of this growth attributable to the international consumer-to-consumer business. Operating income margin declined from 29% to 26% in 2007, primarily as a result of the shift in business mix reflecting stronger growth in the international business, which carries a lower profit margin than the U.S. originated businesses, incremental independent public company expenses and the third quarter non-cash stock compensation charge.
Consumer-to-business segment revenue increased 13% from $636 million in 2006 to $720 million in 2007. Excluding the impact of the acquisition of Pago Fcil, revenue increased 4%. Operating income margin decreased from 35% to 31% as the segment's electronic-based services and Pago Fcil, both of which have margins lower than the segment's cash-based services, became more significant to the segment's overall results. In addition, operating income growth and margin were impacted by incremental public company expenses and the non-cash stock compensation charge.
Consolidated operating income was $1.3 billion and the operating margin for the year was 27% compared with 29% in 2006. Full-year operating income and operating income margin were impacted by the mix shift described above, the $22 million non-cash stock compensation charge, as well as $59 million in incremental independent public company expenses compared to $25 million in 2006.
The tax rate was 29.9% compared to 31.5% in 2006, primarily due to increased foreign-derived profits compared to U.S.-derived profits, as well as the favorable resolution of certain tax matters.
Western Union continues to generate strong cash flow. Cash provided by operating activities was $1.1 billion. Capital expenditures were $192 million. Cash at year end was $1.8 billion and total outstanding borrowings were $3.3 billion.
 
During the fourth quarter, Western Union repurchased 6.4 million shares for $146 million at an average price of $22.73. For the full year 2007, Western Union repurchased 34.7 million shares for $727 million at an average cost of $20.94 per share. The company has $1.25 billion remaining under its board-authorized repurchase plans.
Western Union continues to make progress with new products and offerings. On the mobile money transfer front, Bharti Airtel and Western Union will jointly develop and pilot a mobile money transfer service in India. In the second quarter of 2008, Western Union expects to launch two separate mobile money transfer offerings in the Philippines, one with Smart Communications and the other with Globe Teleco, the two major mobile operators in the Philippines. In Canada, Western Union launched a new service with Scotiabank, connecting customers to Western Union's 335,000 physical locations. Customers needing to send money can initiate a transaction at bank branches or via Scotiabank's on-line service for payout in any Western Union location worldwide.
Western Union has partnered with PrimeCredit Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Standard Chartered Bank PLC, to begin offering micro loans on a test basis in Hong Kong. Western Union will not take the credit risk on the loans.
Outlook
Gold concluded, "As we move into 2008, I am excited about our strong position in the growing worldwide remittance marketplace. We have a talented team, a world-class brand, outstanding agent partners and the corresponding network, and we are in a strong financial position that will allow us to focus our investments on growth. I am confident in our 2008 financial plan, which anticipates the international consumer-to-consumer business to remain strong, the Mexico business to have modest growth, and the U.S. domestic and U.S. outbound businesses to be challenged in light of the current economic circumstances in the United States.
"In 2008, we will continue to grow the core consumer-to-consumer business, expand our consumer-to-business service globally, further develop innovations such as mobile phone money transfer, microlending and new business-to-business offerings, and leverage our cost structure to maintain strong operating margins."
For the full year 2008, management provides the following guidance:
 
 
 
 
Investor and Analyst Conference
Western Union President and Chief Executive Officer Christina Gold will host a conference call and webcast at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time today. Joining Christina on the conference call will be Scott Scheirman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. To listen to the conference call live via telephone, dial 888-680-0878 (U.S.) or +1-617-213-4855 (outside the U.S.) ten minutes prior to the start of the call. The pass code is 88068792.
 
The conference call will also be available via webcast at www.westernunion.com. Registration for the event is required, so please allow at least five minutes to register prior to the scheduled start time. A replay of the call will be available one hour after the call ends through Feb. 7, 2008 at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time at 888-286-8010 (U.S.) or +1-617-801-6888 (outside the U.S.). The pass code is 36994086. A webcast replay will be available at www.westernunion.com for the same time period. Please note: All statements made by Western Union officers on this call are the property of Western Union and subject to copyright protection. Other than the replay, Western Union has not authorized, and disclaims responsibility for, any recording, replay or distribution of any transcription of this call.
Non-Cash Charge for Accelerated Stock Compensation Expense
In the third quarter 2007, the company recognized a $22 million, or a $0.02 per share, non-cash charge in accordance with FAS 123R accounting for stock-based compensation resulting from the previously announced acceleration of vesting in Western Union stock options and awards granted to current Western Union employees prior to the spin-off from First Data. Under the terms of the plan, vesting was accelerated for these options and awards as a result of the change of control that occurred when an affiliate of Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts & Co. (KKR) acquired First Data Corporation, Western Union's former parent company, on September 24, 2007.
Definition of Incremental Independent Public Company Expenses
Incremental independent public company expenses include the costs of staffing additions and related costs to replace support previously provided by First Data Corporation, Western Union's corporate parent until September 29, 2006, as well as additional costs for corporate governance, information technology, corporate branding and global public affairs, benefits and payroll administration, procurement, workforce reorganization, stock compensation, and other expenses related to being a stand-alone public company. These costs also include recruiting and relocation expenses associated with hiring management positions new to Western Union, other employee compensation expenses, and temporary labor used to develop ongoing processes. These expenses are those in excess of amounts allocated to the company by First Data prior to September 29, 2006 or beyond amounts that the company presumes First Data would have allocated subsequently thereto. The company expects most of these expenses will continue to be incurred in future periods.
Non-GAAP Measures
Western Union's management presents revenue growth excluding the acquisition of Pago Fcil and EPS excluding the non-cash charge associated with the acceleration of vesting of certain stock options and awards as a result of the acquisition of First Data Corporation by KKR, each of which are non-GAAP measures, as they provide more meaningful information.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP to comparable GAAP measures are available in the accompanying schedules and in the "Investor Relations" section of the company's web site at .
www.westernunion.com
Safe Harbor Compliance Statement for Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding projected future results within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, forward-looking statements. Words such as "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates" and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "should," "would" and "could" are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. The statements are only as of the date they are made, and Western Union undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
 
Possible events or factors that could cause results or performance to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements include but are not limited to: changes in general economic conditions and economic conditions in the geographic regions and industries in which we operate; changes in immigration laws, patterns and other factors related to immigrants; technological changes, particularly with respect to e-commerce; our ability to attract and retain qualified key employees and to successfully manage our workforce; changes in foreign exchange rates, including the impact of the regulation of foreign exchange spreads on money transfers; adverse movements and volatility in debt and equity capital markets; political conditions and related actions by the United States and abroad which may adversely affect our businesses and economic conditions as a whole; changes in the economic climate in the countries in which we operate; continued growth in the money transfer market and other markets in which we operate at rates approximating recent levels; implementation of agent contracts according to schedule; our ability to maintain our agent network under terms consistent with those currently in place; interruptions of United States government relations with countries in which we have or are implementing material agent contracts; deterioration in consumers' and clients' confidence in our business, or in money transfer providers generally; successfully managing credit and fraud risks presented by our agents and consumers; liabilities and unanticipated developments resulting from litigation and regulatory investigations and similar matters, including costs, expenses, settlements and judgments; changes in United States or foreign laws, rules and regulations including the Internal Revenue Code, and governmental or judicial interpretations thereof; changes in industry standards affecting our business; changes in accounting standards, rules and interpretations; competing effectively in the money transfer industry with respect to global and niche or corridor money transfer providers, banks and other nonbank money transfer services providers, including telecommunications providers, card associations and card-based payments providers; our ability to grow our core businesses; our ability to develop and introduce new products, services and enhancements, and gain market acceptance of such products; our ability to protect our brands and our other intellectual property rights; successfully managing the potential both for patent protection and patent liability in the context of a rapidly developing legal framework for intellectual property protection; any material breach of security of or interruptions in any of our systems; mergers, acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses and technologies into our company and the realization of anticipated synergies from these acquisitions; adverse consequences from our spin-off from First Data Corporation including resolution of certain ongoing matters; decisions to downsize, sell or close units or otherwise change the business mix; catastrophic events; and management's ability to identify and manage these and other risks.
About Western Union
The Western Union Company (NYSE: WU) is a leader in global money transfer services. Together with its affiliates, Orlandi Valuta, Vigo and Pago Fcil, Western Union provides consumers with fast, reliable and convenient ways to send and receive money around the world, as well as send payments and purchase money orders. It operates through a network of more than 335,000 Agent locations in over 200 countries and territories. Famous for its pioneering telegraph services, the original Western Union dates back to 1851. For more information, visit www.westernunion.com.
WU-G, WU-F
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Western Union's management has presented earnings per share, excluding the accelerated non-cash FAS 123R accounting for stock-based compensation charge, resulting from the acquisition of First Data by an affiliate of KKR. Western Union's management has also presented consolidated revenue growth and revenue growth for our consumer-to-business segment, excluding revenue attributed to our acquisition of Pago Fcil. Western Union's management believes these non-GAAP measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operating results to assist management, investors, analysts, and others in understanding our financial results and to better analyze trends in our underlying business, because they provide consistency and comparability.
A non-GAAP financial measure should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the most comparable GAAP financial measure. A non-GAAP financial measure reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the reconciliation to the corresponding GAAP financial measure, provide a more complete understanding of our business. Users of the financial statements are encouraged to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included below.
 
 
 
Consolidated Revenue
 
 


