FILE:WU/WU-8K-20080422074634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 22, 2008, The Western Union Company (the "Company") issued a press release relating to the Company's earnings for the first quarter of fiscal year 2008 (the "Earnings Release"). A copy of the Earnings Release is attached as Exhibit 99.1. The information furnished under this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to such filing.
 
In connection with the issuance of the Earnings Release, the Company is holding a public conference call and webcast on April 22, 2008 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time, during which Christina A. Gold, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Scott T. Scheirman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will provide the presentation attached as Exhibit 99.2. Information regarding access to the conference call and webcast is set forth in the Earnings Release. The information furnished under this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.2 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to such filing.
 
The following is a list of the Exhibits furnished herewith.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 The Western Union Company (NYSE: WU) today reported financial results for the first quarter.
Englewood, Colo., April 22, 2008
Highlights for the quarter include:
 
"Our strong first quarter results, which were driven by another strong quarter from our international C2C business, have put us on track to meet our business objectives for the year," said Western Union President and Chief Executive Officer Christina Gold. "These results reflect our ability to leverage our distribution network and world-class brand in serving the increasing consumer demand for Western Union services throughout the world."
First Quarter Results
Revenue was $1.3 billion, up 12%. Revenue included $33 million of benefit from currency translation of the euro.
Operating income, which included $24 million of restructuring expenses, was $309 million up 2% (up 9% excluding the restructuring expenses) and operating income margin was 24.4% (26.3% excluding restructuring expenses) compared to 26.9% in last year's first quarter. Net income was $207 million up 7%, and included a non-cash pre-tax $7 million derivative gain, which is expected to reverse later in the year. Net income excluding restructuring expenses grew 15%.
 
1
Earnings per share were $0.27, an 8% increase over last year's first quarter, or $0.29 up 16% excluding the restructuring expenses. The tax rate for the quarter was 29.2% compared to 31.5% in last year's first quarter. The effective tax rate decreased primarily as a result of a higher proportion of foreign-derived profits, which are taxed at a lower rate compared to U.S.-derived profits.
Consumer-to-Consumer
Consumer-to-consumer revenue in the first quarter grew 14% to $1.1 billion on transaction growth of 14%. Operating income grew 15% and operating income margin was strong at 25.9% compared to 25.8% in last year's first quarter.
In line with expectations, the domestic business had revenue and transaction declines of 8% and 3%, respectively. Pricing in the domestic business was stable in the first quarter.
The growth in the C2C segment was driven by the international business where revenue and transactions each increased 19%. A subset of the international business, those transactions that originate outside of the United States, which total more than one-half of Western Union's annual revenue, grew even faster, posting 28% revenue growth and 29% transaction growth.
Fueling the continued strong international performance was significant first quarter revenue and transaction growth in India and China. In India, the world's largest remittance receive market, revenue growth was 52% with transaction growth of 65%. In China, the second largest receive market, revenue grew 35% from transaction growth of 22%. These two countries combined represent 6% of total Western Union revenue.
The Mexico business continued to improve, and the company's Mexico transaction growth rate continued to outpace the market, based on data released by Banco de Mexico. Revenue was up 1% and transactions were up 2%. Pricing within Mexico remained stable as evidenced by the tightening of the difference between revenue and transaction growth rates compared to prior quarters.
Consumer-to-Business
Consumer-to-business revenue represents 15% of Western Union's revenue and increased 4% to $190 million. The revenue growth continues to be driven by strong demand for electronic bill payment services in the U.S. and by growth in the company's Pago Fcil business in Argentina.
In the first quarter operating income was down 8% and operating margin was 29.6% compared to 33.4% in the first quarter of 2007. Impacting the year-over-year operating income growth and margin comparison are the faster-growing U.S. electronic bill payment services and the Pago Fcil businesses, which have lower margins than the traditional U.S. cash bill payment business. The first quarter 2008 operating income margin was consistent with the previous two quarters.
New Services
On the innovation front, Western Union, together with two partners, Smart Communications and Globe Telecom, will enter the market this quarter with its mobile money transfer service to the Philippines.
 
2
Additionally, Western Union began its micro lending pilot in Hong Kong in the first quarter. Initial results from the pilot have affirmed the consumer demand for micro loans. The pilot has also demonstrated that Western Union customers will choose Western Union for the additional financial services they require.
Agent Signings
Western Union's extensive network, well-known brand, financial strength and rigorous compliance efforts continue to attract outstanding agent partners. In the first quarter, Western Union added 10,000 agent locations and renewed key agents to bring the agent location total to 345,000.
In South Africa, Western Union will begin offering inbound and outbound money transfer services in the third quarter through its new agreement with ABSA, one of the country's largest financial services organizations and a subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC.
A leading bank in Poland and a member of UniCredit Group, Bank Pekao has joined the Western Union agent network. Previously, Bank Pekao offered money transfer from different providers which will be replaced during 2008 by the Western Union Money Transfer service. Bank Pekao operates 900 branches in Poland.
Buyback
During the first quarter, Western Union repurchased 14 million shares for $297 million at an average cost of $21.41 per share. The company is committed to returning capital to shareholders and has repurchased more than $1 billion of its stock since becoming a public company. As of March 31, 2008 there was $956 million remaining under its board-authorized repurchase plan.
Restructuring Expenses
During the quarter, Western Union incurred a total of $24 million in restructuring expenses. Of this total, $17 million is related to the company's decision to close substantially all of its union operating facilities in Missouri and Texas and transition these operations to existing facilities outside the U.S. and to third-party providers as disclosed on March 20. The restructuring expenses related to this decision are expected to total approximately $60 million in 2008.
In separate actions taken in the first quarter, the company incurred $7 million in restructuring expenses related to the elimination or relocation of other positions. Of this total, $5 million was previously disclosed and incurred in January, and an additional $2 million was incurred in February when additional cost-saving initiatives were identified. An additional $2 million of restructuring expenses will be recognized in the second quarter related to these initiatives.
The company estimates that all first quarter restructuring initiatives will result in full-year restructuring expenses of $69 million, and will deliver cost savings in 2008 of $10 million and more than $30 million in 2009 and beyond. Of the $24 million in restructuring expenses, $22 million was included in cost of services and $2 million was included in selling, general and administrative expense. The restructuring expenses were not included in the segments.
Restructuring expenses include expenses related to severance, outplacement and other employee related benefits; facility closure and migration of IT infrastructure; other expenses related to relocation of various operations to existing company facilities and third party
 
3
providers, including hiring, training, relocation, travel, and professional fees; and increased security costs at the facilities being closed. Also, included in the facility closure expenses are non-cash expenses related to fixed asset and leasehold improvement write-offs and acceleration of depreciation and amortization.
Outlook
"The overall trajectory of our business, particularly that of our international C2C business, gives us the confidence that we will deliver on our 2008 financial objectives," said Gold.
In 2008, the company continues to expect revenue growth of 9% to 11%, cash flow from operations of $1.2 billion and strong operating margins consistent with 2007 excluding the 2008 restructuring expenses. Management expects that operating income margin excluding restructuring expenses will be stronger in the second half of 2008 compared to the first half.
Western Union expects non-GAAP earnings per share in the range of $1.25 to $1.29, which excludes the estimated $69 million ($0.06 per share) of full-year restructuring expenses and includes the $10 million ($0.01 per share) in estimated savings. This represents growth of 11% to 14% over last year's $1.13 in non-GAAP earnings per share.
As a result of the 2008 restructuring expenses, the company now expects 2008 GAAP earnings per share to be in the range of $1.19 to $1.23 or 7% to 11% growth over last year's GAAP earnings per share of $1.11. This range includes the impact from the estimated $69 million ($0.06 per share) of full-year restructuring expenses and the benefit from the estimated $10 million ($0.01 per share) in cost savings. The original GAAP earnings per share range included $5 million of restructuring expenses.
Gold concluded, "We remain focused on growing profitably and have implemented important initiatives including the restructuring activities. These initiatives together with our ability to leverage our cost structure make us confident that we will deliver on our objective of margin expansion. Our goal is to achieve up to 50 basis points of margin improvement in 2009."
Non-GAAP Measures
Western Union's management presents earnings per share excluding restructuring expenses, operating income growth and margin excluding restructuring expenses, net income growth excluding restructuring expenses, and 2008 earnings per share growth guidance excluding 2008 restructuring expenses, and 2008 earnings per share guidance excluding 2008 restructuring expenses compared to 2007 earnings per share excluding the accelerated non-cash stock compensation vesting charge, which are non-GAAP measures, because management believes they provide more meaningful information.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP to comparable GAAP measures are available in the accompanying schedules and in the "Investor Relations" section of the company's web site at www.westernunion.com.
Investor and Analyst Conference Call and Slide Presentation
Western Union President and Chief Executive Officer Christina Gold will host a conference call and webcast including slides, at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time today. Joining Christina on the conference call will be Scott Scheirman, Executive Vice President and Chief
 
4
Financial Officer. To listen to the conference call live via telephone, dial 888-680-0860 (U.S.) or +1-617-213-4852 (outside the U.S.) ten minutes prior to the start of the call. The pass code is 16584385.
The conference call and accompanying slides will be available via webcast at . Registration for the event is required, so please allow at least five minutes to register prior to the scheduled start time.
http://ir.westernunion.com/investor
A replay of the call will be available one hour after the call ends through April 29, 2008 at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time at 888-286-8010 (U.S.) or +1-617-801-6888 (outside the U.S.). The pass code is 36216887. A webcast replay will be available at for the same time period.
http://ir.westernunion.com/investor
Please note: All statements made by Western Union officers on this call are the property of Western Union and subject to copyright protection. Other than the replay, Western Union has not authorized, and disclaims responsibility for, any recording, replay or distribution of any transcription of this call.
Safe Harbor Compliance Statement for Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, our forward-looking statements. Words such as "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "guides," "provides guidance" and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "should," "would" and "could" are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Readers of this press release by The Western Union Company (the "Company," "Western Union," "we," "our" or "us") should not rely solely on the forward-looking statements and should consider all uncertainties and risks discussed under "Risk Factors" included within the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007. The statements are only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Possible events or factors that could cause results or performance to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements include the following: changes in general economic conditions and economic conditions in the geographic regions and industries in which we operate; changes in immigration laws, patterns and other factors related to immigrants; technological changes, particularly with respect to e-commerce; the failure by us, our agents or subagents to comply with our business and technology standards and contract requirements or applicable laws and regulations, especially laws designed to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing; our ability to attract and retain qualified key employees and to successfully manage our workforce; changes in foreign exchange rates, including the impact of the regulation of foreign exchange spreads on money transfers; adverse movements and volatility in debt and equity capital markets; political conditions and related actions by the United States and abroad which may adversely affect our businesses and economic conditions as a whole; failure to maintain sufficient amount or types of regulatory capital to meet the changing requirements of our various regulators worldwide; continued growth in the money transfer market and other markets in which we operate at rates approximating recent levels; implementation of agent contracts according to schedule; our ability to maintain our agent network and biller relationships under terms consistent with those currently in place; interruptions of United States government relations with countries in which we have or are implementing material agent contracts; deterioration in consumers' and clients' confidence in our business, or in money transfer providers generally; successfully managing credit and fraud risks presented by our agents and consumers; adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies; liabilities and unanticipated
 
5
developments resulting from litigation and regulatory investigations and similar matters, including costs, expenses, settlements and judgments; changes in United States or foreign laws, rules and regulations including the Internal Revenue Code, and governmental or judicial interpretations thereof; our ability to favorably resolve tax matters with the Internal Revenue Service and other tax jurisdictions; changes in industry standards affecting our business; changes in accounting standards, rules and interpretations; competing effectively in the money transfer industry with respect to global and niche or corridor money transfer providers, banks and other nonbank money transfer services providers, including telecommunications providers, card associations and card-based payments providers; our ability to grow our core businesses; our ability to develop and introduce new products, services and enhancements, and gain market acceptance of such products; our ability to protect our brands and our other intellectual property rights; successfully managing the potential both for patent protection and patent liability in the context of a rapidly developing legal framework for intellectual property protection; any material breach of security of or interruptions in any of our systems; mergers, acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses and technologies into our company and the realization of anticipated synergies from these acquisitions; adverse consequences from our spin-off from First Data Corporation, including resolution of certain ongoing matters; decisions to downsize, sell or close units, or to transition operating activities from one location to another or to third parties, particularly transitions from the United States to other countries; decisions to change the business mix; cessation of various services provided to us by third-party vendors; catastrophic events; and management's ability to identify and manage these and other risks.
About Western Union
The Western Union Company (NYSE: WU) is a leader in global money transfer services. Together with its affiliates, Orlandi Valuta and Vigo, Western Union provides consumers with fast, reliable and convenient ways to send and receive money around the world, as well as send payments and purchase money orders. It operates through a network of more than 345,000 Agent locations in over 200 countries and territories. Famous for its pioneering telegraph services, the original Western Union dates back to 1851. For more information, visit www.westernunion.com.
 
6
 
 
 
7
 
 
8
 
 
9
 
 
 
10
 
 
 
11
Western Union's management has presented earnings per share, net income and earnings per share growth, and Western Union's 2008 earnings per share guidance, excluding restructuring and related expenses. In addition, Western Union's management has presented operating income margin and operating income growth, excluding restructuring and related expenses. In presenting Western Union's 2008 earnings per share growth guidance excluding restructuring and related expenses, Western Union's management has excluded from the Company's 2007 earnings per share, the accelerated non-cash SFAS No. 123R accounting for stock-based compensation charge, resulting from the acquisition of First Data by an affiliate of Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts & Co. ("KKR") in the third quarter of 2007. Western Union's management believes these non-GAAP measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operating results to assist management, investors, analysts, and others in understanding our financial results and to better analyze trends in our underlying business, because they provide consistency and comparability to prior periods.
A non-GAAP financial measure should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the most comparable GAAP financial measure. A non-GAAP financial measure reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the reconciliation to the corresponding GAAP financial measure, provide a more complete understanding of our business. Users of the financial statements are encouraged to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included below.
 
 
Refer to footnote explanations at the end of this "Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures" section.
 
12
 
 
Refer to footnote explanations at the end of this "Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures" section.
 
13
EPS Guidance
 
 
14



