FILE:WU/WU-8K-20100727073537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 27, 2010, The Western Union Company (the "Company") issued a press release relating to the Company's earnings for the second quarter of fiscal year 2010 (the "Earnings Release"). A copy of the Earnings Release is attached as Exhibit 99.1. The information furnished under this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to such filing.
 
In connection with the issuance of the Earnings Release, the Company is holding a public conference call and webcast on July 27, 2010 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time, during which Christina A. Gold, President and Chief Executive Officer, Hikmet Ersek, Chief Operating Officer, and Scott T. Scheirman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will provide the presentation attached as Exhibit 99.2. Information regarding access to the conference call and webcast is set forth in the Earnings Release. The information furnished under this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.2 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to such filing.
 
The following is a list of the Exhibits furnished herewith.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 The Western Union Company (NYSE: WU) today reported financial results for the 2010 second quarter.
Englewood, Colo., July 27, 2010
Financial highlights for the quarter included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operational highlights for the quarter included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Western Union President and Chief Executive Officer Christina A. Gold said, "The increased momentum we experienced in the first quarter has continued into the second, as each of our regions contributed to solid transaction growth. As I enter my last few weeks with Western Union I believe the foundation is solid, with a strong brand, an unmatched global network, and an energized management team. We are confident the strategies of profitable growth in money transfer, rapid development of electronic channels, and expansion of business payments are the right ones to achieve success."
Chief Operating Officer and CEO-Elect Hikmet Ersek added, "The second quarter results demonstrate the benefits of our diversified geographic portfolio. Although the global economy remains challenging in many parts of the world, our overall business continues to improve. Transaction trends increased, and we delivered solid margins. As a result of our first half performance, we are raising our earnings per share outlook for the year, excluding restructuring charges."
Ersek added, "We plan to build on our momentum by leveraging our many competitive advantages to enhance our speed and execution, add new services and channels, and improve our productivity. The organizational changes we initiated in the quarter are one step towards improving our efficiencies and driving growth over the long-term."
As previously announced, Ersek will become CEO upon Gold's retirement on September 1, 2010.
Consolidated Results
Second quarter consolidated revenue of $1.3 billion increased 2% from the prior year. Constant currency revenue growth was 3%, or 1% excluding Custom House. The constant currency growth rate improved approximately 200 basis points compared to the first quarter, supported by stronger consumer-to-consumer trends in the Americas region.
 
Operating income margin was 24%, or 27% excluding $35 million of pre-tax restructuring expenses, compared to 27% in last year's second quarter. The Company expects to record a total of approximately $80 million of restructuring charges through 2011, a majority of which is expected to occur during 2010. The restructuring charges relate primarily to organizational changes designed to simplify business processes, move decision-making closer to the marketplace, and leverage the cost structure. The Company expects pre-tax savings from the initiatives of approximately $10 million in 2010, $30 million to $40 million in 2011, and $50 million annualized beginning in 2012. Restructuring expenses are not reflected in segment operating results.
GAAP earnings per share were $0.33, or $0.36 excluding restructuring expenses. On a constant currency basis, earnings per share were $0.37 excluding restructuring expenses. Resolution of certain tax matters with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service relating to the 2002-2004 tax years benefited GAAP EPS by approximately $0.01 in the quarter. EPS in the same period last year was $0.31.
Consumer-to-Consumer Segment Results
The consumer-to-consumer segment represented 84% of Western Union's revenue at $1.1 billion in the quarter, an increase of 1%, or 2% on a constant currency basis, compared to the prior year. Operating income margin was 29%, which compared to 28% in the second quarter of 2009.
Western Union handled 53 million C2C transactions, a 9% increase over last year's second quarter. This represents the third consecutive quarter of accelerating transaction growth.
For the international portion of C2C, revenue increased 2%, or 4% constant currency adjusted, on transaction growth of 7%. Revenue from the subset of the international business, those transactions that originate outside the U.S., increased 1%, or 3% constant currency adjusted, on transaction growth of 7%.
The Europe, Middle East, Africa and South Asia (EMEASA) region's revenue declined 1% while transactions increased 5% compared to last year's second quarter. EMEASA revenue was negatively impacted by currency translation, primarily due to the decline in value of the Euro. On a constant currency basis, EMEASA revenues increased in the quarter. Despite economic challenges in certain European countries, the European Union overall delivered transaction growth. India recorded increases in revenue of 4% and transactions of 3% in the quarter, while the Gulf States had moderate transaction declines.
The Americas region increased revenue 1% on transaction growth of 12%. The region's transaction improvement was driven by strong growth in U.S. domestic money transfer, positive trends in Mexico, and continued strength in U.S.-originated transactions to the rest of the world. Domestic transactions increased 28%, while revenue declined 10%. The repositioning of the U.S. domestic business has contributed to significant increases in transactions, and the Company expects domestic revenue growth to follow later in the year. In Mexico, revenue increased 4% and transactions grew 5%.
 
The Asia Pacific (APAC) region increased revenues by 11% on transaction growth of 14%. China revenue grew 11% as transactions were up 6% in the quarter.
Global Business Payments Segment Results
The Global Business Payments segment represented 14% of Western Union's revenue in the quarter. Revenue was $179 million, an increase of 9% compared to the same period in 2009. Custom House, which was acquired in September of 2009, contributed $28 million of revenue in the quarter, an increase from $26 million in the first quarter. Excluding Custom House, segment revenue decreased 8% due to declines in the U.S. bill payment business. Operating income margin was 19%, or 25% excluding Custom House, compared to 27% in the second quarter of the prior year. The Company continues to invest in Custom House to drive future business-to-business expansion.
Electronic Channel Initiatives
The development of electronic channel initiatives continued in the second quarter. The Company increased its prepaid cards-in-force to over 500,000 and retail distribution expanded to over 8,000 locations. Westernunion.com transactions in international markets increased more than 60% in the quarter. Account based money transfer, which includes account-to-cash and cash-to-account service with banks, experienced transaction increases of over 70% in the quarter. Banks that have agreed to join the Company's electronic channel initiative by offering account based money transfer now total 20.
In mobile money transfer, over 60,000 agent locations in 17 countries have now been enabled to provide cash-to-mobile service. In addition, a pilot mobile-to-cash service has been initiated in Malaysia, and Western Union money transfer is now available through mobile banking in South Africa with Absa, a subsidiary of Barclays Bank.
Electronic channels, which are included in the C2C and Other reporting segments, represented 2% of total company revenue in the quarter.
Capital Deployment & Liquidity
Western Union's year-to-date cash flow from operations was $326 million, including a reduction due to a $250 million refundable tax deposit with the IRS in the first quarter. Capital expenditures in the second quarter totaled $29 million. In the quarter the Company repurchased 13.3 million of its shares for $217 million, at an average price of $16.32 per share, and paid $40 million in dividends. Year-to-date the Company has repurchased 25.7 million shares for $417 million, at an average price of $16.25 per share. As of June 30, 2010 the Company had $583 million remaining under its current stock repurchase authorization. On June 21, the Company issued $250 million principal amount of 6.20% notes due 2040.
 
Outlook
The Company now expects the following full year 2010 results:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Based on first half performance and current business trends, the Company has increased its constant currency EPS outlook, excluding restructuring charges, by $0.04. The outlook for reported EPS, excluding restructuring charges, has been increased by $0.02 due to offsets from the negative impact of foreign currency translation. The restructuring charge is expected to impact GAAP EPS by approximately $0.07.
The EPS outlook before restructuring charges is benefiting from higher constant currency revenues, a lower tax rate, and restructuring savings, partially offset by negative foreign currency translation and higher interest expense related to the issuance of $250 million of long-term debt.
The constant currency revenue outlook has increased by 1% compared to the prior outlook, primarily due to improved results in the Americas. The GAAP revenue outlook has decreased by 1% due to an expected negative impact from foreign currency translation, partially offset by the increase in constant currency revenues. The outlook assumes no significant changes in the global economy.
Additional Statistics
Additional key statistics for the quarter and historical trends can be found in the supplemental table included with this press release.
Non-GAAP Measures
Western Union presents a number of non-GAAP measurements because management believes that these metrics provide meaningful supplemental information in addition to the GAAP metrics and provide comparability and consistency to prior periods. These non-GAAP measurements include revenue change constant currency adjusted, revenue change constant currency adjusted excluding Custom House, operating income margin excluding restructuring expenses, earnings per share excluding restructuring expenses, earnings per share constant currency adjusted excluding restructuring expenses, consumer-to-consumer segment revenue change constant
 
currency adjusted, international consumer-to-consumer revenue change constant currency adjusted, international consumer-to-consumer excluding United States originated transactions revenue change constant currency adjusted, Global Business Payments revenue change excluding Custom House, Global Business Payments operating margin excluding Custom House, 2010 revenue outlook constant currency adjusted, 2010 earnings per share outlook excluding restructuring expenses and additional measures found in the supplemental schedule included with this press release.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP to comparable GAAP measures are available in the accompanying schedules and in the "Investor Relations" section of the company's web site at .
www.westernunion.com
Restructuring
Western Union incurred $35 million in restructuring expenses in the second quarter from previously announced actions. In the quarter, approximately $10 million was included in cost of services and $25 million was included in selling, general, and administrative expense. The restructuring expenses were not included in the operating segments' results.
Restructuring expenses include expenses related to severance, outplacement and other employee-related benefits; facility closure and migration of IT infrastructure; and other expenses related to relocation of various operations to new or existing company facilities and third-party providers, including hiring, training, relocation, travel, and professional fees. Also included in the facility closure expenses are non-cash expenses related to fixed asset and leasehold improvement write-offs, and the acceleration of depreciation.
Currency
Constant currency results assume foreign revenues and expenses are translated from foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar, net of the effect of foreign currency hedges, at rates consistent with those in the prior year. Constant currency results also assume any benefit or loss caused by foreign exchange fluctuations between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar, net of the effect of foreign currency hedges, would have been consistent with the prior year. Additionally, the measurement assumes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency derivatives not designated as hedges and the portion of fair value that is excluded from the measure of effectiveness for those contracts designated as hedges is consistent with the prior year.
Investor and Analyst Conference Call and Slide Presentation
The company will host a conference call and webcast, including slides, at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time today. To listen to the conference call live via telephone, dial 866-770-7146 (U.S.) or +1-617-213-8068 (outside the U.S.) ten minutes prior to the start of the call. The pass code is 95512056.
 
The conference call and accompanying slides will be available via webcast at . Registration for the event is required, so please register at least five minutes prior to the scheduled start time.
http://ir.westernunion.com/investor
A replay of the call will be available approximately two hours after the call ends through August 3, 2010, at 888-286-8010 (U.S.) or +1-617-801-6888 (outside the U.S.). The pass code is 52949326. A webcast replay will be available at for the same time period.
http://ir.westernunion.com/investor
Please note: All statements made by Western Union officers on this call are the property of Western Union and subject to copyright protection. Other than the replay, Western Union has not authorized, and disclaims responsibility for, any recording, replay or distribution of any transcription of this call.
Safe Harbor Compliance Statement for Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, our forward-looking statements. Words such as "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "guides," "provides guidance," "provides outlook" and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "should," "would" and "could" are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Readers of this press release by The Western Union Company (the "Company," "Western Union," "we," "our" or "us") should not rely solely on the forward-looking statements and should consider all uncertainties and risks discussed in the Risk Factors section and throughout the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. The statements are only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Possible events or factors that could cause results or performance to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements include the following: changes in immigration laws, patterns and other factors related to migrants; our ability to adapt technology in response to changing industry and consumer needs or trends; our failure to develop and introduce new products, services and enhancements, and gain market acceptance of such products; the failure by us, our agents or subagents to comply with our business and technology standards and contract requirements or applicable laws and regulations, especially laws designed to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, and/or changing regulatory or enforcement interpretations of those laws; failure to comply with the settlement agreement with the State of Arizona; the impact on our business of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the rules promulgated thereunder; changes in United States or foreign laws, rules and regulations including the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and governmental or judicial interpretations thereof; changes in general economic conditions and economic conditions in the regions and industries in which we operate; adverse movements and volatility in capital markets and other events which affect our liquidity, the liquidity of our agents or clients, or the value of, or our ability to recover our investments or amounts payable to us; political conditions and related actions in the United States and abroad which may adversely affect our businesses and economic conditions as a whole; interruptions of United States government relations with countries in which we have or are implementing material agent contracts; our ability to resolve tax matters with the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities consistent with our reserves; mergers, acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses and technologies into our company, and the realization of anticipated financial benefits from these acquisitions; changes in, and failure to manage effectively exposure to, foreign exchange rates, including the impact of the regulation of foreign exchange spreads on money transfers and payment transactions; failure to maintain sufficient amounts or types of regulatory capital to meet the changing requirements of our regulators worldwide; our ability to maintain our agent network and business relationships under terms consistent with or more advantageous to us than those currently in place; failure to implement agent contracts according to schedule; deterioration in consumers' and clients' confidence in our business, or in money transfer providers generally; failure to manage credit and fraud risks presented by our agents, clients and consumers or non-performance by our banks, lenders, other financial services providers or insurers; any material breach of security of or interruptions in any of our systems; adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies; liabilities and unanticipated developments resulting from litigation and regulatory investigations and similar matters, including costs, expenses, settlements and judgments; failure to compete effectively in the money transfer industry with respect to global and niche or corridor money transfer providers, banks and other money transfer services providers, including telecommunications providers, card associations, card-based payment providers and electronic and internet providers; our ability to protect our brands and our other intellectual property rights; our failure to manage the potential both for patent protection and patent liability in the context of a rapidly developing legal framework for intellectual property protection; cessation of various services provided to us by third-party vendors; changes in industry standards affecting our business; changes in accounting standards, rules and interpretations; our ability to attract and retain qualified key employees and to manage our workforce successfully; significantly slower growth or declines in the money transfer market and other markets in which we operate; adverse consequences from our spin-off from First Data Corporation; decisions to downsize, sell or close units, or to transition operating activities from one location to another or to third parties, particularly transitions from the United States to other countries; decisions to change our business mix; catastrophic events; and management's ability to identify and manage these and other risks.
 
About Western Union
The Western Union Company (NYSE: WU) is a leader in global payment services. Together with its Vigo, Orlandi Valuta, Pago Facil and Custom House branded payment services, Western Union provides consumers and businesses with fast, reliable and convenient ways to send and receive money around the world, as well as send payments and purchase money orders. The Western Union, Vigo and Orlandi Valuta branded services are offered through a combined network of approximately 430,000 agent locations in 200 countries and territories. In 2009, The Western Union Company completed 196 million consumer-to-consumer transactions worldwide, moving $71 billion of principal between consumers, and 415 million business payments. For more information, visit www.westernunion.com.
WU-F, WU-G
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Western Union's management believes the non-GAAP measures presented provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operating results to assist management, investors, analysts, and others in understanding our financial results and to better analyze trends in our underlying business, because they provide consistency and comparability to prior periods.
A non-GAAP financial measure should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the most comparable GAAP financial measure. A non-GAAP financial measure reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the reconciliation to the corresponding GAAP financial measure, provide a more complete understanding of our business. Users of the financial statements are encouraged to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included below.
All adjusted year-over-year changes were calculated using prior year reported amounts.
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP related notes:
 
 
 
 
 
Other notes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



