FILE:WU/WU-8K-20101008160140.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e)
On October 7, 2010, Western Union Financial Services GmbH ("Western Union Austria"), a subsidiary of The Western Union Company (the "Company"), the Company and Hikmet Ersek, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, entered into a First Amendment to Employment Contract and Expatriate Letter Agreement (the "Amendment") amending certain terms of the Employment Contract entered into between Western Union Austria and Mr. Ersek (the "Employment Contract") and the Expatriate Letter Agreement (the "Expatriate Agreement") entered into between Western Union Austria, the Company and Mr. Ersek, each dated as of November 9, 2009 (the Employment Contract and the Expatriate Agreement are collectively referred to herein as the "Employment Agreement"). The Amendment is effective as of September 1, 2010, to reflect the previously announced appointment of Mr. Ersek as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, which became effective on that date.
The terms of the Amendment (i) reflect Mr. Ersek's new position of President and Chief Executive Officer and the continuation of the term of the Employment Agreement from September 1, 2010, (ii) provide for a new annual base salary of US$900,000 effective as of September 1, 2010, subject to merit increases, and (iii) clarify that the Expatriate Agreement package continues as agreed to by the parties at the time Mr. Ersek accepted the position of Chief Operating Officer through the final termination date originally contemplated by the parties, December 31, 2011, at which time Mr. Ersek will cease to be entitled to any of the benefits available thereunder, even though Mr. Ersek will remain a resident of the United States. All other terms of the Employment Agreement are materially unchanged.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


