FILE:WU/WU-8K-20101026160349.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 26, 2010, The Western Union Company (the "Company") issued a press release relating to the Company's earnings for the third quarter of fiscal year 2010 (the "Earnings Release"). A copy of the Earnings Release is attached as Exhibit 99.1. The information furnished under this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to such filing.
 
In connection with the issuance of the Earnings Release, the Company is holding a public conference call and webcast on October 26, 2010 at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time, during which Hikmet Ersek, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Scott T. Scheirman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will provide the presentation attached as Exhibit 99.2. Information regarding access to the conference call and webcast is set forth in the Earnings Release. The information furnished under this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.2 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to such filing.
 
The following is a list of the Exhibits furnished herewith.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 The Western Union Company (NYSE: WU) today reported financial results for the 2010 third quarter.
Englewood, Colo., October 26, 2010
Financial highlights for the quarter included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operational highlights for the quarter included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Western Union President and Chief Executive Officer Hikmet Ersek said, "As we highlighted at our September 30 Investor Day meeting, we are focused on executing against our key strategic priorities of growing retail channels, expanding electronic channels, developing our product portfolio, and improving processes and productivity. We are pleased with the progress we are making towards addressing these strategic priorities."
Ersek added, "In the quarter, all of our regions contributed to the consumer-to-consumer transaction growth, and margins were strong. We now expect full year earnings per share to be higher than our previous outlook, even with increased marketing and other investments in the fourth quarter to propel future growth."
Consolidated Results
Third quarter consolidated revenue of $1.3 billion increased 1% from the prior year. Constant currency revenue growth was 3%, or 1% excluding Custom House.
Operating income margin was 26%, or 27% excluding $14 million of pre-tax restructuring expenses. Operating margin was 21% in last year's third quarter, or 27% excluding the impact from the Arizona and multi-state settlement accrual (the settlement accrual).
The third quarter 2010 tax rate was 22.7% which compared to 26.6% in the prior year third quarter.
Earnings per share were $0.36, or $0.37 excluding restructuring expenses. On a constant currency basis, earnings per share were $0.38 excluding restructuring expenses. Earnings per share in the same period last year were $0.26, or $0.33 excluding the settlement accrual.
Consumer-to-Consumer Segment Results
The consumer-to-consumer segment represented 85% of Western Union's revenue at $1.1 billion in the quarter, an increase of 1%, or 3% on a constant currency basis, compared to the prior year. This represents the fourth consecutive quarter of accelerating constant currency revenue growth. Western Union handled 55 million C2C transactions in the quarter, a 10% increase compared to the prior year.
Operating income margin was 30%, which compared to 28% in the third quarter of 2009.
For the international portion of C2C, revenue increased 2%, or 4% constant currency adjusted, on transaction growth of 7%. Revenue from the subset of the international business, those transactions that originate outside the U.S., increased 1%, or 4% constant currency adjusted, on transaction growth of 7%.
The Europe, Middle East, Africa and South Asia (EMEASA) region's revenue declined 2% while transactions increased 5% compared to last year's third quarter. EMEASA revenue was negatively impacted by currency translation, primarily due to the decline in value of the Euro.
 
On a constant currency basis, EMEASA revenue increased. India revenue and transactions each increased 2% in the quarter.
The Americas region increased revenue 2% on transaction growth of 13%. The region's strong transaction performance was driven by faster growth in U.S. domestic money transfer and continued strength in U.S.-originated transactions to the rest of the world. Domestic transactions increased 35%, while revenue declined 6%. Mexico revenue declined 1% as transactions grew 2%.
The Asia Pacific (APAC) region increased revenues by 12% on transaction growth of 15%. China revenue and transactions each grew 6% in the quarter.
Global Business Payments Segment Results
The Global Business Payments segment represented 13% of Western Union's revenue in the quarter. Revenue was $179 million, an increase of 5% compared to the same period in 2009.
Custom House, which has been rebranded to Western Union Business Solutions, contributed $27 million of revenue in the third quarter of 2010 and continues to trend to double digit revenue growth for the year. In the year ago quarter, the Company recorded $8 million in Custom House revenue following the September 2009 acquisition.
Excluding Custom House, segment revenue decreased 7% due to declines in the U.S. bill payment revenue. Operating income margin was 15%, or 23% excluding Custom House, which compared to 24%, or 26% excluding Custom House, in the prior year third quarter.
Electronic Channel and Prepaid Initiatives
Westernunion.com transactions in international markets increased more than 60% in the quarter. Total westernunion.com transactions increased approximately 20%. Account based money transfer, which includes account-to-cash and cash-to-account service with banks, experienced transaction increases of over 50%. Banks that have agreed to join the Company's electronic channel initiative by offering account based money transfer now total 27.
In mobile money transfer 70,000 agent locations in 27 countries have been enabled to provide cash-to-mobile service. In addition, consumers may now send money transfers to mobile phone recipients from westernunion.com sites in six countries. The Company currently has relationships in place that allow for mobile receipt of money transfers in select inbound markets.
In prepaid, the Company increased its cards-in-force to over 650,000 with retail distribution available at over 9,000 U.S. locations.
Electronic channels represented 2% of total company revenue in the quarter.
 
Capital Deployment & Liquidity
Western Union's year-to-date cash flow from operations was $710 million, including a reduction due to a $250 million refundable tax deposit with the IRS in the first quarter. Capital expenditures through the first three quarters totaled $88 million. Year-to-date the Company has repurchased 31.7 million shares for $514 million, at an average price of $16.23 per share.
During the third quarter, the Company repurchased 6.0 million of its shares for $98 million, at an average price of $16.15 per share, and declared $39 million in dividends (which were paid on October 14). As of September 30, 2010 the Company had $486 million remaining under its current stock repurchase authorization.
Outlook
The Company now expects the following full year 2010 results:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Constant currency revenue is expected to be at the higher end of the previous range. GAAP revenue growth is now projected to be only one percentage point below constant currency, primarily due to the recent strengthening of the Euro. Changes in exchange rates have a significantly greater impact on revenue than profits due to the Company's hedging programs.
The Company continues to anticipate 2010 restructuring charges to impact GAAP EPS by approximately $0.07. The full year tax rate is now expected to be lower, with a rate between 22% and 23%, excluding the restructuring charge impact. The GAAP tax rate is expected to be between 21.5% and 22.5%. The current outlook also includes increased marketing and other investments in the fourth quarter to propel future growth.
Based on the performance during the first three quarters, current business trends, and the above mentioned factors, the Company has increased the expected ranges for full year earnings per share compared to the previous outlook. GAAP EPS is now projected in a range of $1.29 to $1.32, which compares to the previous outlook of $1.24 to $1.29. Excluding restructuring charges, the Company expects EPS of $1.36 to $1.39, which compares to the previous outlook of $1.31 to $1.36.
Additional Statistics
Additional key statistics for the quarter and historical trends can be found in the supplemental table included with this press release.
 
Non-GAAP Measures
Western Union presents a number of non-GAAP measurements because management believes that these metrics provide meaningful supplemental information in addition to the GAAP metrics and provide comparability and consistency to prior periods. These non-GAAP measurements include revenue change constant currency adjusted, revenue change constant currency adjusted excluding Custom House, operating income margin and earnings per share excluding restructuring expenses, 2009 operating income margin and earnings per share excluding the settlement accrual, earnings per share constant currency adjusted excluding restructuring expenses, consumer-to-consumer segment revenue change constant currency adjusted, international consumer-to-consumer revenue change constant currency adjusted, international consumer-to-consumer excluding United States originated transactions revenue change constant currency adjusted, Global Business Payments revenue change excluding Custom House, Global Business Payments operating income margin excluding Custom House, 2010 revenue outlook constant currency adjusted, 2010 earnings per share outlook excluding restructuring expenses, 2010 full year tax rate outlook excluding restructuring expenses, and additional measures found in the supplemental schedule included with this press release.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP to comparable GAAP measures are available in the accompanying schedules and in the "Investor Relations" section of the company's web site at .
www.westernunion.com
Restructuring
Western Union incurred $14 million in restructuring expenses in the third quarter from previously announced actions. Approximately $5 million was included in cost of services and $9 million was included in selling, general, and administrative expense.
Year-to-date, Western Union has incurred $49 million in restructuring expenses from previously announced actions. Approximately $14 million was included in cost of services and $35 million was included in selling, general, and administrative expense.
The Company expects to record a total of approximately $80 million of restructuring charges through 2011, a majority of which is expected to occur during 2010. The restructuring charges relate primarily to organizational changes designed to simplify business processes, move decision-making closer to the marketplace, and leverage the cost structure. The Company expects pre-tax savings from the initiatives of approximately $10 million in 2010, $30 million to $40 million in 2011, and $50 million annualized beginning in 2012. Restructuring expenses are not reflected in segment operating results.
Restructuring expenses include expenses related to severance, outplacement and other employee-related benefits; facility closure and migration of IT infrastructure; and other expenses related to relocation of various operations to new or existing company facilities and third-party providers, including hiring, training, relocation, travel, and professional fees. Also included in the facility closure expenses are non-cash expenses related to fixed asset and leasehold improvement write-offs, and the acceleration of depreciation.
 
Third Quarter 2009 Settlement Accrual
During the third quarter of 2009, the Company recorded a pre-tax accrual of $71 million related to an anticipated regulatory settlement which was later finalized. The settlement included resolution of all outstanding legal issues and claims with the state of Arizona, as well as a multi-state agreement to fund a not-for-profit organization. A significant portion of the accrual related to the funding of this organization, promoting safety and security along the entire U.S. and Mexico border. In addition, as part of the agreement, the Company committed to making further investments in its compliance programs in the U.S.-Mexico border area over a three year period.
Currency
Constant currency results assume foreign revenues and expenses are translated from foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar, net of the effect of foreign currency hedges, at rates consistent with those in the prior year. Constant currency results also assume any benefit or loss caused by foreign exchange fluctuations between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar, net of the effect of foreign currency hedges, would have been consistent with the prior year. Additionally, the measurement assumes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency derivatives not designated as hedges and the portion of fair value that is excluded from the measure of effectiveness for those contracts designated as hedges is consistent with the prior year.
Investor and Analyst Conference Call and Slide Presentation
The company will host a conference call and webcast, including slides, at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time today. To listen to the conference call live via telephone, dial 866-770-7125 (U.S.) or +1-617-213-8066 (outside the U.S.) ten minutes prior to the start of the call. The pass code is 49666390.
The conference call and accompanying slides will be available via webcast at . Registration for the event is required, so please register at least five minutes prior to the scheduled start time.
http://ir.westernunion.com
A replay of the call will be available approximately two hours after the call ends through November 2, 2010, at 888-286-8010 (U.S.) or +1-617-801-6888 (outside the U.S.). The pass code is 19467504. A webcast replay will be available at for the same time period.
http://ir.westernunion.com
Please note: All statements made by Western Union officers on this call are the property of Western Union and subject to copyright protection. Other than the replay, Western Union has not authorized, and disclaims responsibility for, any recording, replay or distribution of any transcription of this call.
 
Safe Harbor Compliance Statement for Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, our forward-looking statements. Words such as "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "guides," "provides guidance," "provides outlook" and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "should," "would" and "could" are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Readers of this press release by The Western Union Company (the "Company," "Western Union," "we," "our" or "us") should not rely solely on the forward-looking statements and should consider all uncertainties and risks discussed in the Risk Factors section and throughout the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. The statements are only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Possible events or factors that could cause results or performance to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements include the following: changes in immigration laws, patterns and other factors related to migrants; our ability to adapt technology in response to changing industry and consumer needs or trends; our failure to develop and introduce new products, services and enhancements, and gain market acceptance of such products; the failure by us, our agents or subagents to comply with our business and technology standards and contract requirements or applicable laws and regulations, especially laws designed to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, and/or changing regulatory or enforcement interpretations of those laws; failure to comply with the settlement agreement with the State of Arizona; the impact on our business of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the rules promulgated there-under; changes in United States or foreign laws, rules and regulations including the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and governmental or judicial interpretations thereof; changes in general economic conditions and economic conditions in the regions and industries in which we operate; adverse movements and volatility in capital markets and other events which affect our liquidity, the liquidity of our agents or clients, or the value of, or our ability to recover our investments or amounts payable to us; political conditions and related actions in the United States and abroad which may adversely affect our businesses and economic conditions as a whole; interruptions of United States government relations with countries in which we have or are implementing material agent contracts; our ability to resolve tax matters with the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities consistent with our reserves; mergers, acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses and technologies into our company, and the realization of anticipated financial benefits from these acquisitions; changes in, and failure to manage effectively exposure to, foreign exchange rates, including the impact of the regulation of foreign exchange spreads on money transfers and payment transactions; failure to maintain sufficient amounts or types of regulatory capital to meet the changing requirements of our regulators worldwide; our ability to maintain our agent network and business relationships under terms consistent with or more advantageous to us than those currently in place; failure to implement agent contracts according to schedule; deterioration in consumers' and clients' confidence in our business, or in money transfer providers generally; failure to manage credit and fraud risks presented by our agents, clients and consumers or non-performance by our banks, lenders, other financial services providers or insurers; any material breach of security of or interruptions in any of our systems; adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies; liabilities and unanticipated developments resulting from litigation and regulatory investigations and similar matters, including costs, expenses, settlements and judgments; failure to compete effectively in the money transfer industry with respect to global and niche or corridor money transfer providers, banks and other money transfer services providers, including telecommunications providers, card associations, card-based payment providers and electronic and internet providers; our ability to protect our brands and our other intellectual property rights; our failure to manage the potential both for patent protection and patent liability in the context of a rapidly developing legal framework for intellectual property protection; cessation of various services provided to us by third-party vendors; changes in industry standards affecting our business; changes in accounting standards, rules and interpretations; our ability to attract and retain qualified key employees and to manage our workforce successfully; significantly slower growth or declines in the money transfer market and other markets in which we operate; adverse consequences from our spin-off from First Data Corporation; decisions to downsize, sell or close units, or to transition operating activities from one location to another or to third parties, particularly transitions from the United States to other countries; decisions to change our business mix; catastrophic events; and management's ability to identify and manage these and other risks.
About Western Union
The Western Union Company (NYSE: WU) is a leader in global payment services. Together with its Vigo, Orlandi Valuta, Pago Facil and Western Union Business Solutions branded payment services, Western Union provides consumers and businesses with fast, reliable and convenient ways to send and receive money around the world, as well as send payments and purchase money orders. The Western Union, Vigo and Orlandi Valuta branded services are offered through a combined network of approximately 435,000 agent locations in 200 countries and territories. In 2009, The Western Union Company completed 196 million consumer-to-consumer transactions worldwide, moving $71 billion of principal between consumers, and 415 million business payments. For more information, visit .
www.westernunion.com
WU-F, WU-G
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Western Union's management believes the non-GAAP measures presented provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operating results to assist management, investors, analysts, and others in understanding our financial results and to better analyze trends in our underlying business, because they provide consistency and comparability to prior periods.
A non-GAAP financial measure should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the most comparable GAAP financial measure. A non-GAAP financial measure reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the reconciliation to the corresponding GAAP financial measure, provide a more complete understanding of our business. Users of the financial statements are encouraged to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included below.
All adjusted year-over-year changes were calculated using prior year reported amounts, with the exception of the consolidated revenue change, constant currency adjusted, excluding Custom House and the Global Business Payments revenue change, excluding Custom House in items (a) and (j) below, which are calculated using the prior year reported amounts excluding Custom House.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP related notes:
 
 
 
 
 
Other notes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



