FILE:WU/WU-8K-20110726071615.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 26, 2011, The Western Union Company (the "Company") issued a press release relating to the Company's earnings for the second quarter of fiscal year 2011 (the "Earnings Release"). A copy of the Earnings Release is attached as Exhibit 99.1. The information furnished under this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to such filing.
 
In connection with the issuance of the Earnings Release, the Company is holding a public conference call and webcast on July 26, 2011 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time, during which Hikmet Ersek, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Scott T. Scheirman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will provide the presentation attached as Exhibit 99.2. Information regarding access to the conference call and webcast is set forth in the Earnings Release. The information furnished under this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.2 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to such filing.
 
The following is a list of the Exhibits furnished herewith.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 The Western Union Company (NYSE: WU) today reported financial results for the 2011 second quarter.
Englewood, Colo., July 26, 2011
Financial highlights for the quarter included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional highlights for the quarter included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Statistics
Additional key statistics for the quarter and historical trends can be found in the supplemental table included with this press release.
 
 
"We continue to see solid trends in our business, and I am pleased we are able to raise our full year outlook for both revenue and earnings per share. The consumer-to-consumer business is growing in each of our regions, and our bill payments revenue growth turned positive in the quarter for the first time since 2008. We also made further strides in electronic channels, which now represent 3% of total Company revenue."
Western Union President and Chief Executive Officer Hikmet Ersek commented,
Ersek continued, "I am very excited about the recent announcement regarding the acquisition of Travelex Global Business Payments, which will give us immediate scale, further reach, and added capabilities in the business-to-business cross border payments market. Our existing b-to-b business, Western Union Business Solutions, is on track for good growth this year, and we are expanding distribution through our money transfer agent network in several countries. The combination of Travelex Global Business Payments and Western Union Business Solutions will give us a strong foundation for long-term growth in international business payments."
Ersek added, "We continue to deploy the Company's strong cash flow against our priorities of investing in the business, making strategic acquisitions to accelerate growth and diversify our sources of revenue, and returning funds to shareholders through both share repurchase and
 
dividends, while maintaining a strong balance sheet. In addition to the Travelex Global Business Payments acquisition, which is expected to close late this year, we completed the purchase of one of our leading money transfer network agents in Europe, Angelo Costa, in April, and expect to complete the Finint acquisition later this year. We have also been active in the first half of the year in returning funds to shareholders. In May, we raised our dividend by 14%, and year-to-date through June we have repurchased $660 million of our shares."
2011 Outlook
The Company has increased its full year 2011 revenue and EPS financial outlook and now expects the following full year 2011 results:
Revenue
 
 
The updated 2011 outlook does not include any revenue impact related to the TGBP acquisition, which is expected to close in late 2011.
EPS
 
 
The 2011 projected GAAP EPS range has increased by $0.07 compared to the April 26, 2011 outlook, and the EPS range excluding restructuring expenses has increased by $0.06. Restructuring expenses in 2011 are expected to be slightly lower than previously projected, at approximately $45 million. Excluding restructuring expenses, the primary drivers of the $0.06 increase in EPS relate to:
 
 
 
 
Operating Margins
The Company's operating margin is now projected at a range of 25% to 25.5%, or a range of 26% to 26.5% excluding restructuring charges. The change in operating margin from the April
 
outlook is due to the deal costs related to the TGBP acquisition and the impact of foreign exchange. On a constant currency basis, excluding restructuring charges, the Company projects a full year operating margin of 26.5% to 27%, including the negative impact of TGBP deal costs. This compares to an operating margin of 26.2% in 2010, excluding restructuring charges.
Operating Cash Flow
The Company expects GAAP cash flows from operating activities to be at the lower end of its previous range of $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion.
Non-GAAP Measures
Western Union presents a number of non-GAAP measurements because management believes that these metrics provide meaningful supplemental information in addition to the GAAP metrics and provide comparability and consistency to prior periods. These non-GAAP measurements include revenue change constant currency adjusted, operating income margin and earnings per share excluding restructuring expenses, consumer-to-consumer segment revenue change constant currency adjusted, 2011 revenue outlook constant currency adjusted, 2011 operating income margin outlook restructuring and constant currency adjusted, 2011 earnings per share outlook excluding restructuring expenses, and additional measures found in the supplemental schedule included with this press release.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP to comparable GAAP measures are available in the accompanying schedules and in the "Investor Relations" section of the Company's web site at .
www.westernunion.com
Restructuring
Western Union incurred $9 million in restructuring expenses in the second quarter from previously announced actions. Approximately $0.5 million was included in cost of services and $8.4 million was included in selling, general, and administrative expense. The Company incurred $35 million in restructuring expenses in the second quarter of 2010.
For the 2010 full year, Western Union incurred $60 million in restructuring expenses from previously announced actions. Approximately $15 million was included in cost of services and $45 million was included in selling, general, and administrative expense.
The Company expects to record a total of approximately $45 million of restructuring charges in 2011. The restructuring charges relate primarily to organizational changes designed to simplify business processes, move decision-making closer to the marketplace, and create operating efficiencies. The Company realized pre-tax savings from the initiatives of $8 million in 2010, and expects approximately $50 million of savings in 2011, and $70 million annualized beginning in 2012. Restructuring expenses are not reflected in segment operating results.
Restructuring expenses include expenses related to severance, outplacement and other related benefits; facility closure and migration of IT infrastructure; and other expenses related to
 
relocation of various operations to new or existing Company facilities and third-party providers, including hiring, training, relocation, travel, and professional fees. Also included in the facility closure expenses are non-cash expenses related to fixed asset and leasehold improvement write-offs, and the acceleration of depreciation and amortization.
Currency
Constant currency results assume foreign revenues and expenses are translated from foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar, net of the effect of foreign currency hedges, at rates consistent with those in the prior year. Constant currency results also assume any benefit or loss caused by foreign exchange fluctuations between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar, net of the effect of foreign currency hedges, would have been consistent with the prior year. Additionally, the measurement assumes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency derivatives not designated as hedges and the portion of fair value that is excluded from the measure of effectiveness for those contracts designated as hedges is consistent with the prior year.
Investor and Analyst Conference Call and Slide Presentation
The Company will host a conference call and webcast, including slides, at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time today. To listen to the conference call live via telephone, dial 800-901-5248 (U.S.) or +1-617-786-4512 (outside the U.S.) ten minutes prior to the start of the call. The pass code is 93950425.
The conference call and accompanying slides will be available via webcast at . Registration for the event is required, so please register at least five minutes prior to the scheduled start time.
http://ir.westernunion.com
A replay of the call will be available approximately two hours after the call ends through August 2, 2011, at 888-286-8010 (U.S.) or +1-617-801-6888 (outside the U.S.). The pass code is 96917112. A webcast replay will be available at for the same time period.
http://ir.westernunion.com
Please note: All statements made by Western Union officers on this call are the property of Western Union and subject to copyright protection. Other than the replay, Western Union has not authorized, and disclaims responsibility for, any recording, replay or distribution of any transcription of this call.
 
Safe Harbor Compliance Statement for Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, our forward-looking statements. Words such as "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "guides," "provides guidance," "provides outlook" and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "should," "would" and "could" are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Readers of this press release by The Western Union Company (the "Company," "Western Union," "we," "our" or "us") should not rely solely on the forward-looking statements and should consider all uncertainties and risks discussed in the "Risk Factors" section and throughout the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. The statements are only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Possible events or factors that could cause results or performance to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements include the following: changes in immigration laws, patterns and other factors related to migrants; our ability to adapt technology in response to changing industry and consumer needs or trends; our failure to develop and introduce new products, services and enhancements, and gain market acceptance of such products; the failure by us, our agents or subagents to comply with our business and technology standards and contract requirements or applicable laws and regulations, especially laws designed to prevent money laundering, terrorist financing and anti-competitive behavior, and/or changing regulatory or enforcement interpretations of those laws; the impact on our business of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the rules promulgated there-under; changes in United States or foreign laws, rules and regulations including the Internal Revenue Code, and governmental or judicial interpretations thereof; changes in general economic conditions and economic conditions in the regions and industries in which we operate; political conditions and related actions in the United States and abroad which may adversely affect our businesses and economic conditions as a whole; interruptions of United States government relations with countries in which we have or are implementing material agent contracts; mergers, acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses and technologies into our Company, and the realization of anticipated financial benefits from these acquisitions; changes in, and failure to manage effectively exposure to, foreign exchange rates, including the impact of the regulation of foreign exchange spreads on money transfers and payment transactions; our ability to resolve tax matters with the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities consistent with our reserves; failure to comply with the settlement agreement with the State of Arizona; liabilities and unanticipated developments resulting from litigation and regulatory investigations and similar matters, including costs, expenses, settlements and judgments; failure to maintain sufficient amounts or types of regulatory capital to meet the changing requirements of our regulators worldwide; deterioration in consumers' and clients' confidence in our business, or in money transfer providers generally; failure to manage credit and fraud risks presented by our agents, clients and consumers or non-performance by our banks, lenders, other financial services providers or insurers; any material breach of security of or interruptions in any of our systems; our ability to attract and retain qualified key employees and to manage our workforce successfully; our ability to maintain our agent network and business relationships under terms consistent with or more advantageous to us than those currently in place; failure to implement agent contracts according to schedule; adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies; failure to compete effectively in the money transfer industry with respect to global and niche or corridor money transfer providers, banks and other money transfer services providers, including telecommunications providers, card associations, card-based payment providers and electronic and internet providers; our ability to protect our brands and our other intellectual property rights; our failure to manage the potential both for patent protection and patent liability in the context of a rapidly developing legal framework for intellectual property protection; cessation of various services provided to us by third-party vendors; adverse movements and volatility in capital markets and other events which affect our liquidity, the liquidity of our agents or clients, or the value of, or our ability to recover our investments or amounts payable to us; decisions to downsize, sell or close units, or to transition operating activities from one location to another or to third parties, particularly transitions from the United States to other countries; changes in industry standards affecting our business; changes in accounting standards, rules and interpretations; significantly slower growth or declines in the money transfer market and other markets in which we operate; adverse consequences from our spin-off from First Data Corporation; decisions to change our business mix; catastrophic events; and management's ability to identify and manage these and other risks.
About Western Union
The Western Union Company (NYSE: WU) is a leader in global payment services. Together with its Vigo, Orlandi Valuta, Pago Facil and Western Union Business Solutions branded payment services, Western Union provides consumers and businesses with fast, reliable and convenient ways to send and receive money around the world, to send payments and to purchase money orders. The Western Union, Vigo and Orlandi Valuta branded services are offered through a combined network of approximately 470,000 agent locations in 200 countries and territories. In 2010, The Western Union Company completed 214 million consumer-to-consumer transactions worldwide, moving $76 billion of principal between consumers, and 405 million business payments. For more information, visit .
www.westernunion.com
WU-F, WU-G
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Western Union's management believes the non-GAAP measures presented provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operating results to assist management, investors, analysts, and others in understanding our financial results and to better analyze trends in our underlying business, because they provide consistency and comparability to prior periods.
A non-GAAP financial measure should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the most comparable GAAP financial measure. A non-GAAP financial measure reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the reconciliation to the corresponding GAAP financial measure, provide a more complete understanding of our business. Users of the financial statements are encouraged to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included below.
All adjusted year-over-year changes were calculated using prior year reported amounts.
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP related notes:
 
Other notes:
 
 
 
 



