FILE:WU/WU-8K-20110201160244.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 1, 2011, The Western Union Company (the "Company") issued a press release relating to the Company's earnings for the fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2010 (the "Earnings Release"). A copy of the Earnings Release is attached as Exhibit 99.1. The information furnished under this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to such filing.
 
In connection with the issuance of the Earnings Release, the Company is holding a public conference call and webcast on February 1, 2011 at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time, during which Hikmet Ersek, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Scott T. Scheirman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will provide the presentation attached as Exhibit 99.2. Information regarding access to the conference call and webcast is set forth in the Earnings Release. The information furnished under this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.2 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to such filing.
 
The following is a list of the Exhibits furnished herewith.
 
.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 The Western Union Company (NYSE: WU) today reported financial results for the 2010 fourth quarter and full year.
Englewood, Colo., Feb. 1, 2011
Financial highlights for the quarter included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial highlights for the full year included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operational highlights for the quarter included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Western Union President and Chief Executive Officer Hikmet Ersek said, "We had a strong finish to 2010. Our consumer-to-consumer revenue trends accelerated, including the expected turnaround in U.S. domestic money transfer. For the year, we generated $1 billion in cash flow from operations, and returned $750 million to shareholders through stock repurchase and dividends. We also made progress on our key strategic priorities of growing retail channels, expanding electronic channels, developing our product portfolio, and improving processes and productivity."
Ersek continued, "The progress includes expansion of our agent network with premier banks in Europe and Russia and new strategic relationships in India. We also signed agreements to bring mobile money transfer to multiple countries across Africa and the Middle East, and add account based money transfer in China."
The Company's 2011 outlook projects constant currency and GAAP revenue growth in a range of +3% to +4%, operating income margin expansion to approximately 26% on a GAAP basis or approximately 27% excluding restructuring charges, and cash flow from operations of $1.2 billion to $1.3 billion. Further details are included in the 2011 Outlook section of this press release.
Ersek added, "Although there are still economic challenges in some parts of the world, in 2011 we anticipate our momentum to continue. For the full year, we expect stronger organic revenue growth, margin expansion, and continued meaningful return of capital to our shareholders, while at the same time providing for investment in the business to drive future growth."
Consolidated Results
Fourth Quarter 2010
Consolidated revenue of $1.4 billion increased 3% from the 2009 fourth quarter. Constant currency revenue growth was 5%.
 
Operating income margin was 24%, or 25% excluding $11 million of pre-tax restructuring expenses. Operating income margin was 24% in last year's fourth quarter.
Other income / expense in the fourth quarter of 2010 included a $6 million benefit related to higher than expected final recovery of funds from the Reserve International Liquidity Fund.
The fourth quarter 2010 tax rate was 16%, which compared to 21% in the prior year fourth quarter. The fourth quarter 2010 tax rate benefited from favorable cumulative adjustments.
Earnings per share were $0.37, or $0.38 excluding restructuring expenses. On a constant currency basis, earnings per share were $0.38 excluding restructuring expenses. Earnings per share in the same period last year were $0.32.
Full Year 2010
Consolidated revenue of $5.2 billion increased 2% from the prior year. Constant currency revenue growth was 3%, or 1% excluding the acquisition of Custom House.
Operating income margin was 25%, or 26% excluding $60 million of pre-tax restructuring expenses. Operating income margin was 25% in 2009, or 27% excluding the impact from the Arizona and multi-state settlement accrual (the settlement accrual).
The 2010 tax rate was 21%, which compared to 25% in the prior year. The 2010 tax rate was favorably impacted by an increasing portion of profits being foreign derived, the cumulative tax benefit from previous foreign acquisitions and tax planning, and IRS settlements related to prior tax years.
Earnings per share were $1.36, or $1.42 excluding restructuring expenses. On a constant currency basis, earnings per share were $1.43 excluding restructuring expenses. Earnings per share in the same period last year were $1.21, or $1.29 excluding the settlement accrual.
Consumer-to-Consumer Segment Results
Fourth Quarter 2010
The consumer-to-consumer segment represented 85% of Western Union's revenue at $1.2 billion in the quarter, an increase of 3%, or 5% on a constant currency basis, compared to the prior year. This represents the fifth consecutive quarter of accelerating constant currency revenue growth. Western Union handled 56 million C2C transactions in the quarter, a 9% increase compared to the prior year.
Operating income margin was 27%, which compared to 26% in the fourth quarter of 2009.
For the international portion of C2C, revenue increased 3%, or 5% constant currency adjusted, on transaction growth of 8%. Revenue from the subset of the international business, those transactions that originate outside the U.S., also increased 3%, or 5% constant currency adjusted, on transaction growth of 8%.
 
The Europe, Middle East, Africa and South Asia (EMEASA) region's revenue declined 1%, while transactions increased 6%, compared to last year's fourth quarter. EMEASA revenue was negatively impacted by currency translation, primarily due to the decline in value of the Euro compared to prior year. On a constant currency basis, EMEASA revenue increased. India revenue increased 8% on transaction growth of 6% in the quarter.
The Americas region increased revenue 7% on transaction growth of 11%. Growth in U.S. domestic money transfer and continued strength in U.S. Outbound to the rest of the world contributed to the improvement. Domestic revenue increased 7%, on transaction growth of 29%. Mexico revenue and transactions each grew 3% in the quarter.
The Asia Pacific (APAC) region increased both revenues and transactions by 14% in the quarter. China revenue grew 6% and transactions increased 7%.
Full Year 2010
The consumer-to-consumer segment represented 84% of Western Union's revenue at $4.4 billion for the year, an increase of 2%, or 3% on a constant currency basis, compared to the prior year. Western Union handled 214 million C2C transactions, a 9% increase compared to the prior year.
Operating income margin for the segment was 28%, which compared to 27% in 2009.
For the international portion of C2C, revenue increased 3%, or 4% constant currency adjusted, on transaction growth of 8%. Revenue from the subset of the international business, those transactions that originate outside the U.S., also increased 3%, or 4% constant currency adjusted, on transaction growth of 8%.
The Europe, Middle East, Africa and South Asia region's revenue was flat, while transactions increased 5% compared to last year. EMEASA revenue was negatively impacted by currency translation, primarily due to the decline in value of the Euro. On a constant currency basis, EMEASA revenue increased. India revenue increased 5%, and transactions increased 4% for the year. Operating income margin for EMEASA was 28% for both 2010 and 2009.
The Americas region increased revenue 2% on transaction growth of 11%. The region's strong transaction performance was driven by growth in U.S. domestic money transfer and continued strength in U.S.-originated transactions to the rest of the world. Domestic transactions increased 28%, while revenue declined 6%. Mexico revenue was flat for the year, and transactions grew 2%. Operating income margin for the Americas region was 28%, which compared to 26% in 2009.
The Asia Pacific region increased revenues by 13% on transaction growth of 14%. China revenue grew 10% on transaction growth of 7%. Operating income margin for APAC was 29%, which compared to 27% in 2009.
 
Global Business Payments Segment Results
Fourth Quarter 2010
The Global Business Payments segment represented 13% of Western Union's revenue in the quarter. Revenue was $181 million, which was flat compared to the same period in 2009.
Western Union Business Solutions (Business Solutions), which was formerly Custom House, contributed $30 million of revenue in the fourth quarter of 2010, compared to $23 million in the prior year.
Operating income margin was 13%, which compared to 20% in the prior year fourth quarter. Operating income margin declined from the prior year primarily due to revenue declines and mix shifts in U.S. bill payments and higher investment in Western Union Business Solutions.
Full Year 2010
The Global Business Payments segment represented 14% of Western Union's revenue for the year. Revenue was $722 million, an increase of 4% compared to 2009.
Western Union Business Solutions contributed $111 million of revenue in 2010. In 2009, the Company recorded $31 million in Custom House revenue following the September acquisition.
Excluding Business Solutions, which was formerly Custom House, segment revenue decreased 8% due to declines in U.S. bill payments. Operating income margin was 17%, or 24% excluding Business Solutions, which compared to 25%, or 27% excluding Business Solutions, in the prior year. Segment operating income margin declined from prior year primarily due to higher investments and intangibles amortization in Business Solutions and revenue declines and mix shifts in U.S. bill payments.
Electronic Channel and Prepaid Initiatives
The Company's key strategic priorities include expanding electronic channels and developing our product portfolio by providing additional services such as prepaid cards. These areas represent a relatively small proportion of Company revenues today, so other metrics are provided to update progress.
Westernunion.com transactions in international markets increased 50% for the quarter and 60% for the year. Total westernunion.com transactions increased over 20% for both the fourth quarter and the full year. The Company now has internet transaction sites in 20 countries.
Account based money transfer, which includes account-to-cash and cash-to-account service with banks, grew transactions over 40% for the quarter and 60% for the year. Banks that have agreed to join the Company's electronic channel initiative by offering account based money transfer now total 40.
 
The Company now has mobile money transfer agreements in place with 12 mobile network operators and banks. In addition, over 80,000 agent locations in 48 countries have been enabled to provide cash-to-mobile service. Consumers may also send money transfers to mobile phone recipients from westernunion.com sites in 9 countries. The Company currently has relationships in place that allow for mobile receipt of money transfers in select inbound markets.
Electronic channels represented 2% of total company revenue for both the quarter and the year.
In prepaid, the Company increased its cards-in-force to 890,000, with retail distribution available at nearly 9,500 U.S. locations.
Capital Deployment & Liquidity
Western Union's cash flow from operations was $1.0 billion in 2010, including a reduction due to a $250 million refundable tax deposit with the IRS in the first quarter. Capital expenditures for the year totaled $114 million. At year-end, cash on hand was $2.2 billion and total outstanding debt was $3.3 billion.
In 2010, the Company repurchased 35.6 million shares for $584 million, at an average price of $16.44 per share. During the fourth quarter, the Company repurchased 3.9 million shares for $70 million, at an average price of $18.15 per share. For the year, the Company paid a total of $165 million in dividends. During the fourth quarter, the Company increased its quarterly dividend by 17%, to $0.07 per share.
The Company announced today that its board of directors has approved a new $1 billion share repurchase authorization, which is in addition to the $416 million remaining as of December 31, 2010 on the previous authorization. Both authorizations expire on December 31, 2012.
2011 Outlook
The Company expects the market environment in 2011 to be similar to 2010, with relatively high unemployment levels but modest improvement in the overall global remittance market. Compared to 2010 full year, Western Union's 2011 outlook anticipates stronger consumer-to-consumer revenue growth, moderating declines in bill pay, and mid-teens revenue growth from Western Union Business Solutions.
Operating margins are expected to expand in 2011, with revenue growth and savings from restructuring and productivity initiatives more than offsetting investments in the business for future growth.
Compared to 2010, EPS in 2011 will be impacted by a higher tax rate, as the 2010 tax rate benefited from cumulative adjustments and favorable resolutions. The tax rate is projected to be approximately 24% to 25% in 2011, compared to 21% in 2010, which results in a negative impact to 2011 EPS of approximately $0.06 to $0.08 compared to prior year.
 
Currency is expected to negatively impact EPS by approximately $0.02, due to differences in foreign currency hedge rates in 2011 compared to 2010. The EPS outlook also includes a net $0.01 benefit from the Angelo Costa S.r.l. acquisition, which is expected to close in the first half of 2011. The acquisition impact is the result of a gain anticipated to be recorded on the Company's previous 30% equity ownership position in Angelo Costa, partially offset by slight dilution resulting from integration costs.
The Company anticipates recording approximately $50 million of pre-tax restructuring expenses in 2011. On May 27, 2010 the Company announced a multi-phased global initiative to simplify its business processes, move decision-making closer to the marketplace, and leverage its cost structure. At that time, the Company anticipated recording $80 million of restructuring charges over 18 months. In 2010, the Company recorded $60 million of the charges. Following subsequent analysis of additional organizational design opportunities, the total charges and related savings are now expected to be higher than originally projected. All actions are expected to be completed by the end of the third quarter in 2011. The Company's 2011 outlook includes a negative GAAP EPS impact of $0.06 from all restructuring expenses. Total restructuring related savings of approximately $50 million are also included in the 2011 outlook, with the annual savings expected to increase to approximately $70 million beginning in 2012.
The Company provides the following financial outlook for 2011:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Statistics
Additional key statistics for the quarter and historical trends can be found in the supplemental table included with this press release.
Non-GAAP Measures
Western Union presents a number of non-GAAP measurements because management believes that these metrics provide meaningful supplemental information in addition to the GAAP metrics and provide comparability and consistency to prior periods. These non-GAAP measurements include revenue change constant currency adjusted, revenue change constant currency adjusted excluding Western Union Business Solutions, operating income margin and earnings per share excluding restructuring expenses, 2009 operating income margin and earnings per share excluding the settlement accrual, earnings per share constant currency adjusted excluding restructuring expenses, consumer-to-consumer segment revenue change constant currency adjusted, international consumer-to-consumer revenue change constant currency adjusted, international consumer-to-consumer excluding United States originated transactions revenue
 
change constant currency adjusted, Global Business Payments revenue change excluding Western Union Business Solutions, Global Business Payments operating income margin excluding Western Union Business Solutions, 2011 earnings per share outlook excluding restructuring expenses, 2011 operating income margin outlook excluding restructuring expenses, and additional measures found in the supplemental schedule included with this press release.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP to comparable GAAP measures are available in the accompanying schedules and in the "Investor Relations" section of the company's web site at .
www.westernunion.com
Restructuring
Western Union incurred $11 million in restructuring expenses in the fourth quarter from previously announced actions. Approximately $1 million was included in cost of services and $10 million was included in selling, general, and administrative expense.
For the 2010 full year, Western Union incurred $60 million in restructuring expenses from previously announced actions. Approximately $15 million was included in cost of services and $45 million was included in selling, general, and administrative expense.
The Company expects to record a total of approximately $50 million of restructuring charges in 2011. The restructuring charges relate primarily to organizational changes designed to simplify business processes, move decision-making closer to the marketplace, and leverage the cost structure. The Company realized pre-tax savings from the initiatives of $8 million in 2010, and expects approximately $50 million of savings in 2011, and $70 million annualized beginning in 2012. Restructuring expenses are not reflected in segment operating results.
Restructuring expenses include expenses related to severance, outplacement and other employee- related benefits; facility closure and migration of IT infrastructure; and other expenses related to relocation of various operations to new or existing company facilities and third-party providers, including hiring, training, relocation, travel, and professional fees. Also included in the facility closure expenses are non-cash expenses related to fixed asset and leasehold improvement write-offs, and the acceleration of depreciation.
2009 Settlement Accrual
During the third quarter of 2009, the Company recorded a pre-tax accrual of $71 million related to an anticipated regulatory settlement which was later finalized. The settlement included resolution of all outstanding legal issues and claims with the state of Arizona, as well as a multi-state agreement to fund a not-for-profit organization. A significant portion of the accrual related to the funding of this organization, promoting safety and security along the entire U.S. and Mexico border. In addition, as part of the agreement, the Company committed to making further investments in its compliance programs in the U.S.-Mexico border area over a three year period.
 
Currency
Constant currency results assume foreign revenues and expenses are translated from foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar, net of the effect of foreign currency hedges, at rates consistent with those in the prior year. Constant currency results also assume any benefit or loss caused by foreign exchange fluctuations between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar, net of the effect of foreign currency hedges, would have been consistent with the prior year. Additionally, the measurement assumes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency derivatives not designated as hedges and the portion of fair value that is excluded from the measure of effectiveness for those contracts designated as hedges is consistent with the prior year.
Investor and Analyst Conference Call and Slide Presentation
The company will host a conference call and webcast, including slides, at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time today. To listen to the conference call live via telephone, dial 866-831-6224 (U.S.) or +1-617-213-8853 (outside the U.S.) ten minutes prior to the start of the call. The pass code is 10368167.
The conference call and accompanying slides will be available via webcast at . Registration for the event is required, so please register at least five minutes prior to the scheduled start time.
http://ir.westernunion.com
A replay of the call will be available approximately two hours after the call ends through February 8, 2011, at 888-286-8010 (U.S.) or +1-617-801-6888 (outside the U.S.). The pass code is 46232564. A webcast replay will be available at for the same time period.
http://ir.westernunion.com
Please note: All statements made by Western Union officers on this call are the property of Western Union and subject to copyright protection. Other than the replay, Western Union has not authorized, and disclaims responsibility for, any recording, replay or distribution of any transcription of this call.
 
Safe Harbor Compliance Statement for Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, our forward-looking statements. Words such as "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "guides," "provides guidance," "provides outlook" and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "should," "would" and "could" are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Readers of this press release by The Western Union Company (the "Company," "Western Union," "we," "our" or "us") should not rely solely on the forward-looking statements and should consider all uncertainties and risks discussed in the Risk Factors section and throughout the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. The statements are only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Possible events or factors that could cause results or performance to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements include the following: changes in immigration laws, patterns and other factors related to migrants; our ability to adapt technology in response to changing industry and consumer needs or trends; our failure to develop and introduce new products, services and enhancements, and gain market acceptance of such products; the failure by us, our agents or subagents to comply with our business and technology standards and contract requirements or applicable laws and regulations, especially laws designed to prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, and anti-competitive behavior, and/or changing regulatory or enforcement interpretations of those laws; failure to comply with the settlement agreement with the State of Arizona; the impact on our business of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the rules promulgated there-under; changes in United States or foreign laws, rules and regulations including the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and governmental or judicial interpretations thereof; changes in general economic conditions and economic conditions in the regions and industries in which we operate; adverse movements and volatility in capital markets and other events which affect our liquidity, the liquidity of our agents or clients, or the value of, or our ability to recover our investments or amounts payable to us; political conditions and related actions in the United States and abroad which may adversely affect our businesses and economic conditions as a whole; interruptions of United States government relations with countries in which we have or are implementing material agent contracts; our ability to resolve tax matters with the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities consistent with our reserves; mergers, acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses and technologies into our company, and the realization of anticipated financial benefits from these acquisitions; changes in, and failure to manage effectively exposure to, foreign exchange rates, including the impact of the regulation of foreign exchange spreads on money transfers and payment transactions; failure to maintain sufficient amounts or types of regulatory capital to meet the changing requirements of our regulators worldwide; our ability to maintain our agent network and business relationships under terms consistent with or more advantageous to us than those currently in place; failure to implement agent contracts according to schedule; deterioration in consumers' and clients' confidence in our business, or in money transfer providers generally; failure to manage credit and fraud risks presented by our agents, clients and consumers or non-performance by our banks, lenders, other financial services providers or insurers; any material breach of security of or interruptions in any of our systems; adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies; liabilities and unanticipated developments resulting from litigation and regulatory investigations and similar matters, including costs, expenses, settlements and judgments; failure to compete effectively in the money transfer industry with respect to global and niche or corridor money transfer providers, banks and other money transfer services providers, including telecommunications providers, card associations, card-based payment providers and electronic and internet providers; our ability to protect our brands and our other intellectual property rights; our failure to manage the potential both for patent protection and patent liability in the context of a rapidly developing legal framework for intellectual property protection; cessation of various services provided to us by third-party vendors; changes in industry standards affecting our business; changes in accounting standards, rules and interpretations; our ability to attract and retain qualified key employees and to manage our workforce successfully; significantly slower growth or declines in the money transfer market and other markets in which we operate; adverse consequences from our spin-off from First Data Corporation; decisions to downsize, sell or close units, or to transition operating activities from one location to another or to third parties, particularly transitions from the United States to other countries; decisions to change our business mix; catastrophic events; and management's ability to identify and manage these and other risks.
About Western Union
The Western Union Company (NYSE: WU) is a leader in global payment services. Together with its Vigo, Orlandi Valuta, Pago Facil and Western Union Business Solutions branded payment services, Western Union provides consumers and businesses with fast, reliable and convenient ways to send and receive money around the world, to send payments and to purchase money orders. The Western Union, Vigo and Orlandi Valuta branded services are offered through a combined network of 445,000 agent locations in 200 countries and territories. In 2010, The Western Union Company completed 214 million consumer-to-consumer transactions worldwide, moving $76 billion of principal between consumers, and 405 million business payments. For more information, visit .
www.westernunion.com
WU-F, WU-G
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Western Union's management believes the non-GAAP measures presented provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operating results to assist management, investors, analysts, and others in understanding our financial results and to better analyze trends in our underlying business, because they provide consistency and comparability to prior periods.
A non-GAAP financial measure should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the most comparable GAAP financial measure. A non-GAAP financial measure reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the reconciliation to the corresponding GAAP financial measure, provide a more complete understanding of our business. Users of the financial statements are encouraged to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included below.
All adjusted year-over-year changes were calculated using prior year reported amounts, with the exception of the consolidated revenue change, constant currency adjusted, excluding Western Union Business Solutions and the Global Business Payments revenue change, excluding Western Union Business Solutions in items (a) and (j) below, which are calculated using the prior year reported amounts excluding Western Union Business Solutions.
 
 
 
Non-GAAP related notes:
 
 
 
 
 
Other notes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



