FILE:WU/WU-8K-20110404160557.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)
On April 4, 2011, The Western Union Company (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that Stewart A. Stockdale, President, The Americas and Executive Vice President, Global Cards and Global Key Accounts, has been appointed to the position of Executive Vice President and President, Global Consumer Financial Services, effective April 4, 2011. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Also, on March 31, 2011 in connection with such appointment, the Board of Directors of the Company approved for Mr. Stockdale an additional equity incentive grant valued at US$600,000 in the form of stock options and performance-based restricted stock units.
There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Stockdale and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Stockdale was selected as Executive Vice President and President, Global Consumer Financial Services. There are no transactions involving Mr. Stockdale requiring disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Mr. Stockdale, 49, has served as the Company's President, The Americas and Executive Vice President, Global Cards and Global Key Accounts since January 2010. From November 2008 to January 2010, Mr. Stockdale served as the Company's Executive Vice President and President, The Americas. From June 2008 to November 2008, Mr. Stockdale served as the Company's Executive Vice President and President, United States and Canada. Prior to joining Western Union in June 2008, Mr. Stockdale served as the President of Simon Brand Ventures and as Chief Marketing Officer of Simon Property Group since 2002.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
The Western Union Company (NYSE:WU) today announced changes in responsibilities among its executive team that will better support the company's strategic initiatives of growing retail channels, expanding electronic channels, developing the product portfolio, and improving process and productivity. Hikmet Ersek, who became President and CEO in September, previously made initial changes to the senior leadership team in 2010, including the streamlining of certain positions.
Englewood, Colo., April 4, 2011 
The current changes include Stewart Stockdale being named Executive Vice President (EVP) and President  Global Consumer Financial Services; David Yates, EVP and President  Business Development and Innovation; and Diane Scott, EVP and Chief Marketing Officer. Each of these appointments is effective immediately.
"We are making these important changes to our Executive Team so that our organization can respond to the needs of our global customers more quickly and effectively," said Western Union President and CEO Hikmet Ersek. "I have every confidence that this is the right team to guide Western Union to great success. Each of these leaders has an excellent track record and they will help us to execute on our key strategies."
In his new role, Stockdale will be responsible for Western Union's global regions and Agent network, the company's global core consumer money transfer service and the consumer payments business. The regional business leaders will now report to Stockdale. Stockdale's tenure with Western Union began in 2008 as EVP of the Americas region. Prior to joining Western Union, Stockdale served as president of Simon Brand Ventures and as chief marketing officer of Simon Property Group. He held senior positions with such multinational companies as Conseco, Inc., MasterCard, American Express and Procter & Gamble. Stockdale holds a bachelors degree in business administration in marketing from the University of Denver and completed The Executive Program at the University of Virginia's Darden Graduate School of Business Administration.
Yates, as EVP and President  Business Development and Innovation, is responsible for the design, development, implementation, roll-out and enhancement of new products and services, including Western Union Business Solutions, Account Based Money Transfer, westernunion.com, mobile money transfer and the company's prepaid and stored value programs globally. Yates has extensive payment systems, banking, and information systems experience involving major projects for processors, banks and telecommunication companies throughout the
United States, Europe and Asia. Prior to joining Western Union, he served in executive roles with several major international corporations, including First Data, IBM, General Electric and American Management Systems. He received a Master's Degree in law from Oxford University.
As EVP and Chief Marketing Officer, Diane Scott is responsible for leading the strategic global marketing development for Western Union, including brand strategy, customer segmentation, customer experience, and market research/analytics. She also is responsible for corporate communications, corporate social responsibility and the Western Union Foundation. Scott's tenure with Western Union began in 2001 and has included positions as general manager of the U.S. domestic business and senior vice president for marketing in the Americas. She was previously the marketing director for US West Dex and Izodia Corporation. She holds a Bachelor of Science degree from Syracuse University.
Other members of the Western Union Executive Team are Scott Scheirman, EVP and Chief Financial Officer; Robin Heller, EVP  Technology and Operations; Grover Wray, EVP  Human Resources; and David Schlapbach, EVP and General Counsel (interim).
About Western Union
The Western Union Company (NYSE: WU) is a leader in global payment services. Together with its Vigo, Orlandi Valuta, Pago Facil and Western Union Business Solutions-branded payment services, Western Union provides consumers and businesses with fast, reliable and convenient ways to send and receive money around the world, to send payments and to purchase money orders. The Western Union, Vigo and Orlandi Valuta-branded services are offered through a combined network of 445,000 Agent locations in 200 countries and territories. In 2010, The Western Union Company completed 214 million consumer-to-consumer transactions worldwide, moving $76 billion of principal between consumers, and 405 million business payments. For more information, visit .
www.westernunion.com
WU-F, WU-G


