FILE:WU/WU-8K-20120525160559.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
As described in Item 5.07 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of The Western Union Company (the "Company") held on Wednesday, May 23, 2012, upon the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the stockholders voted on and approved amendments to the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to declassify the Board of Directors and provide for the annual election of all directors. Pursuant to such amendments, directors who have been elected to three-year terms prior to the effectiveness of such amendments (including directors elected at the 2012 Annual Meeting) will complete those terms. Thereafter, their successors will be elected to one-year terms and from and after the 2015 Annual Meeting, all directors will stand for election annually.
The newly amended Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "New Amended and Restated Charter") was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on May 23, 2012 and was effective as of such date. A copy of the New Amended and Restated Charter is attached as Exhibit 3.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.03.
The Company's Board of Directors previously approved amendments to our By-Laws to eliminate the Board of Directors' classified structure in the same manner as the New Amended and Restated Charter, which became effective upon the filing of the New Amended and Restated Charter with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on May 23, 2012. The Amended and Restated By-Laws are filed as Exhibit 3.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and are incorporated by reference into this Item 5.03.
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
At the Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders, held on May 23, 2012, the stockholders of the Company: (i) elected the persons listed below to serve as directors of the Company for a three-year term; (ii) voted in favor of amendments to the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to eliminate classification of the Board of Directors and require that all Directors stand for election on an annual basis starting in 2015, as described above in Item 5.03; (iii) ratified the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for 2012; (iv) on an advisory basis, voted in favor of the compensation of the Company's named executive officers, as set forth in the Company's 2012 annual meeting proxy statement; (v) approved the material terms of the expanded performance measures under the Company's 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan; (vi) voted against a stockholder proposal regarding stockholder proxy access; and (vii) voted against a stockholder proposal regarding an advisory vote on political contributions. The final voting results for the matters voted upon at the meeting are as follows:
Proposal 1: Election of Directors.
 
 
Proposal 3: Ratification of Selection of Auditors.
 
Proposal 4: Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation.
 
Proposal 5: Approval of Material Terms of the Expanded Performance Measures Under the Company's 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
 
Proposal 6: Stockholder Proposal Regarding Stockholder Proxy Access.
 
Proposal 7: Stockholder Proposal Regarding an Advisory Vote on Political Contributions.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
The following is a list of the Exhibits furnished herewith.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
The Western Union Company, a Delaware corporation, the original Certificate of Incorporation of which was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on February 17, 2006, HEREBY CERTIFIES that this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation restating, integrating and amending its Certificate of Incorporation was duly proposed by its Board of Directors and adopted by its stockholders in accordance with Sections 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "GCL").
: The name of the Corporation is: The Western Union Company (the "Corporation").
FIRST
: The registered office of the Corporation is located at Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, in the State of Delaware, with the zip code of 19801. The name of its registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
SECOND
: The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which a corporation may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware ("GCL") as set forth in Title 8 thereof.
THIRD
: The total number of shares of stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is 2,010,000,000, consisting of 2,000,000,000 shares of Common Stock, each having a par value of $.01, and 10,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, each having a par value of $1.00 per share.
FOURTH
The Board of Directors is expressly authorized to provide for the issuance of all or any shares of the Preferred Stock in one or more classes or series, and to fix for each such class or series such voting powers, full or limited, or no voting powers, and such designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights and such qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, as shall be stated and expressed in the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing for the issuance of such class or series and as may be permitted by the GCL, including, without limitation, the authority to provide that any such class or series may be (i) subject to redemption at such time or times and at such price or prices; (ii) entitled to receive dividends (which may be cumulative or non-cumulative) at such rates, on such conditions, at such times, and payable in preference to, or in such relation to, the dividends payable on any other class or classes or any other series; (iii) entitled to such rights upon the dissolution of, or upon any distribution of the assets of, the Corporation; or (iv) convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of any other class or classes or of any other series of the same or any other class or classes of stock, at such price or prices or at such rates of exchange and with such adjustments; all as may be stated in such resolution or resolutions.
: A. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of a Board of Directors consisting of not less than one nor more than fifteen directors, the exact number of directors to be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors. At each annual meeting of stockholders beginning in 2013, directors shall be elected annually for one-year terms expiring at the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Class I directors elected at the 2010 annual meeting of stockholders shall continue to serve until the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, the Class II directors elected at the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders shall continue to serve until the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders and the Class III directors elected at the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders shall continue to serve until the 2015 annual meeting of stockholders, subject, however, to prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office. Beginning with the 2015 annual meeting of stockholders, the entire Board of Directors shall be subject to election at each annual meeting of stockholders and the Board of Directors will no longer be divided into classes. A director shall hold office until the annual meeting for the year in which his term expires and until his successor shall be elected and shall qualify, subject, however, to prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office. Any vacancy on the Board of Directors, including due to newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors, may be filled only by a majority of the directors then in office, even if less than a quorum, or a sole remaining director.
FIFTH
Any director elected to fill a vacancy not resulting from an increase in the number of directors shall have the same remaining term as that of his predecessor.
B. Prior to and until the time at which the Board of Directors ceases to be classified pursuant to Article FIFTH, Section A, of this Certificate of Incorporation, a director may be removed only by the holders of a majority of shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors and only for cause. From and after that time at which the Board of Directors ceases to be classified pursuant to Article FIFTH, Section A, any director may be removed with or without cause, provided that a director may be removed only by the holders of a majority of shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors.
: A. A director of the Corporation shall not be liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law.
SIXTH
B. (i) Each person (and the heirs, executors or administrators of such person) who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to, or is
involved in any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director of the Corporation shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law. The right to indemnification conferred in this Article SIXTH shall also include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in connection with any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition to the fullest extent authorized by Delaware law. The right to indemnification conferred in this Article SIXTH shall be a contract right.
(ii) The Corporation may, by action of its Board of Directors, provide indemnification to such of the officers, employees and agents of the Corporation to such extent and to such effect as the Board of Directors shall determine to be appropriate and authorized by Delaware law.
C. The Corporation shall have power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss incurred by such person in any such capacity or arising out of such person's status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such liability under Delaware law.
D. The rights and authority conferred in this Article SIXTH shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may otherwise have or hereafter acquire.
E. Neither the amendment nor repeal of this Article SIXTH, nor the adoption of any provision of this Certificate of Incorporation or the bylaws of the Corporation, nor, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law, any modification of law, shall eliminate or reduce the effect of this Article SIXTH in respect of any acts or omissions occurring prior to such amendment, repeal, adoption or modification.
: A. Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation may be effected only at a duly called annual or special meeting of such holders and may not be effected by a consent in writing by such holders in lieu of such a meeting.
SEVENTH
B. Unless otherwise prescribed by law or by this Certificate of Incorporation (including any Certificates of Designation with respect to any Preferred Stock, the "Certificate of Incorporation"), Special Meetings of Stockholders, for any purpose or purposes, may only be called by the officers and directors as provided in the Bylaws of the Corporation.
C. Notwithstanding anything in this Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary and in addition to any vote of the Board of Directors required by this Certificate of Incorporation, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding capital stock entitled to vote thereon shall be required to alter, amend or repeal, or adopt any provision inconsistent with, any provision of this Article SEVENTH.
: The By-Laws of the Corporation may be altered, amended or repealed, in whole or in part, or new By-Laws may be adopted by the stockholders or by the Board of Directors, provided, however, that notice of such alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption of new By-Laws be contained in the notice of such meeting of stockholders or Board of Directors as the case may be. All such amendments must be approved by either the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding capital stock entitled to vote thereon or by a majority of the Board of Directors then in office.
EIGHTH
, The Western Union Company has caused this Certificate to be signed on this 23rd day of May 2012 in its name and attested by duly authorized officers.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 

Exhibit 3.2
As approved by the Board of Directors
as of May 23, 2012
. . The registered office of the Corporation shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware.
Section 1
Registered Office
. . The Corporation also may have offices at such other places both within and without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
Section 2
Other Offices
. . Meetings of the stockholders for the election of directors or for any other purpose shall be held at such time and place, either within or without the State of Delaware as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting.
Section 1
Place of Meetings
. . The Annual Meetings of Stockholders shall be held on such date and at such time as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting, at which meetings the stockholders shall elect Directors, and transact such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting. Written notice or, to the extent permitted by law, electronic notice of the Annual Meeting stating the place, date and hour of the meeting, and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting.
Section 2
Annual Meetings
. . Unless otherwise prescribed by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation (including any Certificates of Designation with respect to any Preferred Stock, the "Certificate of Incorporation"), Special Meetings of Stockholders, for any purpose or purposes, may be called by (i) the Chairman of the Board of Directors, (ii) the Chief Executive Officer (iii) the President, if there be one, (iii) the Secretary, (iv) the Chairman of the Governance Committee, or (v) any such officer at the request in writing of a majority of the Board of Directors. Such request shall state the purpose or purposes of the proposed meeting.
Section 3
Special Meetings
 
Written notice of a Special Meeting stating the place, date and hour of the meeting, the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called shall be given not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting.
. . Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the capital stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business. If, however, such quorum shall not be present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present or represented. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally noticed. If the adjournment is for more than thirty days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote at the meeting.
Section 4
Quorum
. . Unless otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, all voting shall be conducted in accordance with this Section 5. Each stockholder represented at a meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to cast one vote for each share of the capital stock entitled to vote on the subject matter held by such stockholder or such other vote as set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation. Such votes may be cast in person or by proxy but no proxy shall be voted on or after three years from its date, unless such proxy provides for a longer period. The Board of Directors, in its discretion, or the officer of the Corporation presiding at a meeting of stockholders, in such officer's discretion, may require that any votes cast at such meeting shall be cast by written ballot.
Section 5
Voting
In all matters other than the election of directors, the affirmative vote of the majority of shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the subject matter shall be the act of the stockholders.
Each director shall be elected by the vote of a majority of the votes cast with respect to that director's election at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present. However, if the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the shares represented in person or by proxy at any such meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors. A majority of votes cast in an election of directors shall mean that the number of votes cast "for" a director's election exceeds the number of votes cast "against" that director's election (with "abstentions" and "broker nonvotes" not counted as a vote cast either "for" or "against" that director's election).
If a nominee for director, who is an incumbent director, is not elected, the director shall promptly tender his or her resignation to the Board of Directors. The Corporate Governance Committee, or such other committee designated by the Board of Directors, shall make a recommendation to the Board of Directors as to whether to accept or reject the resignation of
 
such incumbent director, or whether other action should be taken. The Board of Directors shall act on the resignation, taking into account the committee's recommendation, and publicly disclose (by a press release, a filing with the Securities Exchange Commission or other broadly disseminated means of communication) its decision regarding the tendered resignation and the rationale behind the decision within 90 days following certification of the election results. The director who tenders his or her resignation shall not participate in the recommendation of the committee or the decision of the Board of Directors with respect to his or her resignation. If such incumbent director's resignation is not accepted by the Board of Directors, such director shall continue to serve until the next annual meeting and until his or her successor is duly elected or his or her earlier resignation or removal.
If the Board of directors accepts a director's resignation pursuant to this Section 5, or if a nominee for director is not elected and the nominee is not an incumbent director, the Board of Directors may fill the resulting vacancy pursuant to the provisions of Article III, Section 2 or may decrease the size of the Board of Directors pursuant to the provisions of Article III, Section 1 of these By-Laws.
. . The officer of the Corporation who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting for a period of at least 10 days prior to the meeting (i) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of the meeting, or (ii) during ordinary business hours, at the principal place of business of the Corporation. If the meeting is to be held at a place, the list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder of the Corporation who is present. If the meeting is to be held solely by means of remote communication, the list shall also be open to the examination of any stockholder of the Corporation during the whole time of the meeting on a reasonably accessible electronic network, and the information required to access such list shall be provided with the notice of the meeting.
Section 6
List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote
. . The stock ledger of the Corporation shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
Section 7
Stock Ledger
. . Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors of the Corporation, except as may be otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation with respect to the right of holders of preferred stock of the Corporation to nominate and elect a specified number of directors in certain circumstances. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at any annual meeting of stockholders (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 8 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 8.
Section 8
Nomination of Directors
 
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for a nomination to be made by a stockholder, such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
To be timely, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders; , , that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within thirty (30) days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever first occurs.
provided
however
To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of the person, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of the person, (iii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by the person and (iv) any other information relating to the person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice (i) the name and record address of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is made, (ii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such stockholder or such beneficial owner, (iii) whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transaction or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of, or any other agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any short position or any borrowing or lending of shares) has been made, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to or manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or to increase or decrease the voting power of, such stockholder or beneficial owner with respect to any share of stock of the Corporation (which information shall be updated by such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, as of the record date of the meeting not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting), (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder or such beneficial owner and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including their names) pursuant to which the nomination(s) are to be made by such stockholder, (v) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to nominate the persons named in its notice and (vi) any other information relating to such stockholder or such beneficial owner that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of each proposed nominee to being named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected.
 
No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 8. If the Chairman of the annual meeting determines that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the Chairman shall declare to the meeting that the nomination was defective and such defective nomination shall be disregarded.
. . No business may be transacted at an annual meeting of stockholders, other than business that is either (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof), (b) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 9 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 9.
Section 9
Business at Annual Meetings
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
To be timely, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders; , , that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within thirty (30) days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever first occurs.
provided
however
To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth as to each matter such stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (ii) the name and record address of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made, (iii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such stockholder or such beneficial owner, (iv) whether and the extent to which any hedging or other transaction or series of transactions has been entered into by or on behalf of, or any other agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any short position or any borrowing or lending of shares) has been made, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to or manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or to increase or decrease the voting power of, such stockholder or beneficial owner with respect to any share of stock of the Corporation (which information shall be updated by such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, as of the record date of the meeting not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting), (v) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder or such beneficial
 
owner and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder and any material interest of such stockholder or such beneficial owner in such business and (vi) a representation that such stockholder or such beneficial owner intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to bring such business before the meeting.
No business shall be conducted at the annual meeting of stockholders except business brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 9, , , that, once business has been properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with such procedures, nothing in this Section 9 shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any stockholder of any such business. If the Chairman of an annual meeting determines that business was not properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the Chairman shall declare to the meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting and such business shall not be transacted.
provided
however
. . The Board of Directors shall consist of not less than one nor more than fifteen members, the exact number of which shall be fixed from time to time by resolution adopted by affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors. Any director may resign at any time upon notice to the Corporation. Directors need not be stockholders. As used in these By-Laws, the term "entire Board of Directors" means the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies.
Section 1
Number and Election of Directors
. . Any vacancy on the Board of Directors, including due to newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors, may only be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director, and the directors so chosen shall hold office until the next annual shareholders meeting that is at least 120 days after the appointment of such directors and until their successors are duly elected and qualified, or until their earlier resignation or removal.
Section 2
Vacancies
. . The business of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors which may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
Section 3
Duties and Powers
. . The Board of Directors of the Corporation may hold meetings, both regular and special, either within or without the State of Delaware. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and at such place as may from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman, the Controlling Officer or any directors. Notice
Section 4
Meetings
 
thereof stating the place, date and hour of the meeting shall be given to each director either by mail not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the date of the meeting, by telephone, electronic mail or in person on twenty-four (24) hours' notice, or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem necessary or appropriate in the circumstances.
. . Except as may be otherwise specifically provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, at all meetings of the Board of Directors, a majority of the entire Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present.
Section 5
Quorum
. . Unless otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all the members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and the writing or writings and electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
Section 6
Actions of Board
. . Unless otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section 7 shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Section 7
Meetings by Means of Conference Telephone
. . The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the entire Board of Directors, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of any such committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, and in the absence of a designation by the Board of Directors of an alternate member to replace the absent or disqualified member, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not the member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any absent or disqualified member. Any committee, to the extent allowed by law and provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation. Each committee shall keep regular minutes and report to the Board of Directors when required.
Section 8
Committees
. . The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors or a stated salary as director. No such payment shall
Section 9
Compensation
 
preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation for attending committee meetings.
. . The Board of Directors shall elect from the directors a Chairman of the Board of the Directors at the first meeting of the Board of Directors after each Annual Meeting of stockholders. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall hold such office until his or her successor is chosen and qualified or until earlier resignation or removal from such position. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall perform such duties and may exercise such powers as from time to time may be assigned to the Chairman by these By-Laws or by the Board of Directors.
Section 10
Chairman of the Board of Directors
. . The officers of the Corporation shall be chosen by the Board of Directors and there shall be a Secretary and a Treasurer. The Board of Directors, in its discretion, also may choose a Chief Executive Officer, President and one or more Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers and other officers. Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless otherwise prohibited by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws. The officers of the Corporation need not be stockholders of the Corporation nor need such officers be directors of the Corporation.
Section 1
General
. . The Board of Directors at its first meeting held after each Annual Meeting of Stockholders shall elect the officers of the Corporation who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors and all officers of the Corporation shall hold office until their successors are chosen and qualified, or until their earlier resignation or removal. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation shall be filled by the Board of Directors.
Section 2
Election
. . Powers of attorney, proxies, waivers of notice of meeting, consents and other instruments relating to securities owned by the Corporation may be executed in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation by any officer of the Corporation and any such officer may, in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, take all such action as any such officer may deem advisable to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of security holders of any corporation in which the Corporation may own securities and at any such meeting shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and power incident to the ownership of such securities and which, as the owner thereof, the Corporation might have exercised and possessed if present. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, from time to time confer like powers upon any other person or persons.
Section 3
Voting Securities Owned by the Corporation
. . At the request of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or in such person's absence, or in the event of such person's inability or refusal to act, the Chief Executive Officer, if not also the Chairman of the Board of Directors, and then the
Section 4
Chief Executive Officer
 
President, if there be one, shall perform the duties of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer, or in such person's absence, or in the event of such person's inability or refusal to act, the President, if there be one (such person, the "Controlling Officer"), shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, have general supervision of the business of the Corporation and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are carried into effect. The Controlling Officer shall execute all bonds, mortgages, contracts and other instruments of the Corporation requiring a seal, under the seal of the Corporation, except where required or permitted by law to be otherwise signed and executed and except that the other officers of the Corporation may sign and execute documents when so authorized by these By-Laws, the Board of Directors or the Controlling Officer. In the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Controlling Officer shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors. The Controlling Officer shall also perform such other duties and may exercise such other powers as from time to time may be assigned to such person by these By-Laws or by the Board of Directors.
. . At the request of the Controlling Officer, or in such person's absence, or in the event of such person's inability or refusal to act, or if there is no Controlling Officer, the officer designated by the Board of Directors shall perform the duties of the Controlling Officer and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Controlling Officer.
Section 5
Controlling Officer Succession
. . The Secretary, or an Assistant Secretary, shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and all meetings of stockholders and record all the proceedings thereat in a book or books to be kept for that purpose; the Secretary, or an Assistant Secretary, also shall perform like duties for the standing committees when required. The Secretary, or an Assistant Secretary, shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or the Controlling Officer under whose supervision the Secretary and Assistant Secretaries shall be. If the Secretary and all Assistant Secretaries are unable or shall refuse to cause to be given notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, then the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Controlling Officer may choose another officer to cause such notice to be given. The Secretary shall have custody of the seal of the Corporation and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, if there be one, shall have authority to affix the same to any instrument requiring it and when so affixed, it may be attested by the signature of the Secretary or by the signature of any such Assistant Secretary. The Board of Directors may give general authority to any other officer to affix the seal of the Corporation and to attest the affixing by such officer's signature. The Secretary shall see that all books, reports, statements, certificates and other documents and records required by law to be kept or filed are properly kept or filed, as the case may be.
Section 6
Secretary
. . The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation and shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name
Section 7
Treasurer
 
and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the Controlling Officer and the Board of Directors, at its regular meetings, or when the Board of Directors so requires, an account of all such officer's transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation. If required by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of the office and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of such person's death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in his possession or under his control belonging to the Corporation.
. . Except as may be otherwise provided in these By-Laws, Assistant Secretaries, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Controlling Officer, any Vice President, if there be one, or the Secretary, and in the absence of the Secretary or in the event of such person's disability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Secretary, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Secretary.
Section 8
Assistant Secretaries
. . Assistant Treasurers, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Controlling Officer, any Vice President, if there be one, or the Treasurer, and in the absence of the Treasurer or in the event of such person's disability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Treasurer, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Treasurer. If required by the Board of Directors, an Assistant Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of the office and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of such person's death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in such person's possession or under such person's control belonging to the Corporation.
Section 9
Assistant Treasurers
. . Such other officers as the Board of Directors may choose shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may delegate to any other officer of the Corporation the power to choose such other officers and to prescribe their respective duties and powers.
Section 10
Other Officers
. . Shares of the Corporation's stock may be certificated or uncertificated, as provided under Delaware law. All certificates of stock of the Corporation shall be numbered and shall be entered in the books of the Corporation
Section 1
Certificated and Uncertificated Shares
 
as they are issued. The certificates shall be signed by (i) the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President and (ii) the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation, and certify the number of shares owned by such holder in the Corporation.
. . Any signature required to be on a certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Section 2
Signatures
. . The Board of Directors may direct a new certificate to be issued in place of any certificate theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost, stolen or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of a new certificate, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or his legal representative, to advertise the same in such manner as the Board of Directors shall require and/or to give the Corporation a bond in such sum as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the Corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed.
Section 3
Lost Certificates
. . Stock of the Corporation shall be transferable in the manner prescribed by law and in these By-Laws. Transfers of stock shall be made on the books of the Corporation only by the record holder of such stock, or by their attorney lawfully constituted in writing, and, in the case of stock represented by a certificate, upon the surrender of the certificate.
Section 4
Transfers
. . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty days nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty days prior to any such other corporate action. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Section 5
Record Date
. . The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and to hold liable for calls and assessments a person registered on its books as the owner of shares, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by law.
Section 6
Beneficial Owners
 
. . Whenever written notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, to be given to any director, member of a committee or stockholder, such notice may be given by mail, addressed to such director, member of a committee or stockholder, at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, with postage thereon prepaid, and such notice shall be deemed to be given at the time when the same shall be deposited in the United States mail. Written notice may also be given personally or by telegram, facsimile, telex, cable, e-mail or electronic means.
Section 1
Notices
. . Whenever any notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, to be given to any director or member of a committee, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to said notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto.
Section 2
Waivers of Notice
. . Dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation, subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, if any, may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting, and may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the Corporation's capital stock. Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors from time to time, in its absolute discretion, deems proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for any proper purpose, and the Board of Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve.
Section 1
Dividends
. . All checks or demands for money and notes of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers or such other person or persons as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate.
Section 2
Disbursements
. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Section 3
Fiscal Year
. . The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation, the year of its organization and the words "Corporate Seal, Delaware." The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.
Section 4
Corporate Seal
 
. . The Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action, suit or proceeding by or in the right of the Corporation) by reason of the fact that the person is or was an officer or employee of the Corporation, or is or was an officer or employee of the Corporation serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer or employee of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by the person in connection with the defense of such action, suit or proceeding if the person acted in good faith and in a manner the person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action, suit or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe the person's conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which the person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation and, with respect to any criminal action, suit or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe the person's conduct was unlawful.
Section 1
Power to Indemnify in Actions, Suits or Proceedings other Than Those by or in the Right of the Corporation
nolo
contendere
. . The Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceedings by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that the person is or was an officer or employee of the Corporation, or is or was an officer or employee of the Corporation serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer or employee of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by the person in connection with the defense of such action, suit or proceedings if the person acted in good faith and in a manner the person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation; except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any action, suit or proceedings, nor any claim, issue or matter, as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation unless and only to the extent that the Court of Chancery or the court in which such action, suit or proceedings was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Court of Chancery or such other court shall deem proper.
Section 2
Power to Indemnify in Actions, Suits or Proceedings by or in the Right of the Corporation
. Actual and reasonable expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by an officer or employee in defending a civil, criminal, administrative or investigative action, suit or proceeding as contemplated by Sections 1 or 2 of this Article VIII shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the indemnified person to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Article VIII.
Section 3.
Prepayment of Expenses
 
. . The Corporation shall indemnify any present or former officer or employee of the Corporation if such person has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to in Sections 1 and 2 of this Article VIII, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection therewith.
Section 4
Indemnity if Successful on the Merits
. . Any indemnification under this Article VIII (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the present or former officer or employee is proper in the circumstances because the person has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in this Article VIII. Such determination shall be made with respect to a person who is an officer at the time of such determination (i) by a majority vote of the directors who are not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, even though less than a quorum, or (ii) by a committee of such directors designated by majority vote of such directors, even though less than a quorum, or (iii) if there are no such directors, or if such directors so direct, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (iv) by majority vote of the stockholders. The exercise of the power to indemnify and advance expenses by the Corporation pursuant to this Article VIII shall not be deemed to limit any other exercise or restriction of such powers by the Corporation, provided, that any repeal or modification of this Article VIII shall not adversely affect any right or protection of any person in respect to any act or omission occurring prior to the time of such repeal or modification.
Section 5
Exercise of Powers
. . Notwithstanding any contrary determination or absence of determination in a specific case under Section 5 of this Article VIII, any officer or employee may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction in the State of Delaware for indemnification to the extent otherwise permissible under Sections 1, 2 and 4 of this Article VIII. The basis of such indemnification by a court shall be a determination by such court that indemnification of the officer or employee is proper in the circumstances because such person has met the applicable standards of conduct set forth in Section 1, 2 or 4 of this Article VIII, as the case may be. Neither a contrary determination nor the absence of a determination in a specific case under Section 5 of this Article VIII shall be a defense to such application or create a presumption that the officer or employee seeking indemnification has not met any applicable standard of conduct. Notice of any application for indemnification pursuant to this Section 6 shall be given to the Corporation promptly upon the filing of such application.
Section 6
Indemnification by a Court
. . The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to this Article VIII shall, unless otherwise provided when authorized or ratified, continue as to a person who has ceased to be an officer or employee and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person. No repeal, modification or amendment of, or adoption of any provision inconsistent with, this Article VIII, nor to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any modification of law, shall adversely affect any right or protection of any person granted
Section 7
Survival of Indemnification and Advancement of Expenses
 
pursuant hereto existing at, or with respect to, arising out of or related to any event, act or omission that occurred prior to, the time of such repeal, modification, amendment or adoption (regardless of when any proceeding (or part thereof) relating to such event, act or omission arises or is first threatened, commenced or completed.)
. . The rights granted under this Article VIII shall be limited to the extent any applicable laws limit such rights to indemnity or the power to indemnify.
Section 8
Applicable Law
. For purposes of this Article VIII the following definitions shall apply.
Section 9.
Certain Definitions
"Acted in good faith and in a manner the person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation and, with respect to any criminal action, suit or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe their conduct was unlawful" shall include, but not be limited to, actions based on the following information from the Corporation or other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan, or enterprise to which the person is or was serving at the request of the Corporation (for purposes of this definition only, an "Enterprise"): records or books of account of the Corporation or Enterprise, information supplied by an officer of the Corporation or Enterprise in the course of their duties, advice of legal counsel for the Corporation or Enterprise, or information or records given or reports made to the Corporation or Enterprise by an independent certified public accountant, appraiser or other expert selected with reasonable care by the Corporation or Enterprise.
"Corporation" shall include, in addition to the resulting corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors, officers or employee so that any person who is or was a director, officer or employee of such constituent corporation, or is or was a director, officer or employee of such constituent corporation serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provision of this Article VIII with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as such person would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued.
"Fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to any employee benefit plan.
"Not opposed to the best interest of the corporation" shall include actions taken in good faith in service to an employee benefit plan that the person reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan.
 
 
. Directors of the Corporation shall be entitled to indemnification and advancement of expenses as provided in the Certificate of Incorporation.
Section 10.
Indemnification of Directors
 


