FILE:WU/WU-8K-20120103083606.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d)
On December 30, 2011, The Western Union Company (the "Company") Board of Directors (the "Board") voted to appoint Richard A. Goodman to the Board and to the Audit Committee of the Board, effective January 1, 2012. Mr. Goodman will serve on the Board and Audit Committee until the next annual election of directors.
There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Goodman and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Goodman was selected as a director. There are no transactions involving Mr. Goodman requiring disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Mr. Goodman will receive the standard compensation received by the Company's current non-employee, United States resident directors. These compensation arrangements are discussed in the Company's Proxy Statement dated April 5, 2011.
A copy of the press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Goodman to the Board is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
 
 
The following exhibit is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
Englewood, Colo., Jan. 3, 2012  The Western Union Company (NYSE: WU), a leader in global payment services, announced today that Richard A. Goodman has been appointed to the company's Board of Directors, effective January 1, 2012.
Mr. Goodman, age 63, will serve on the audit committee of the Board until the next annual election of directors. The appointment of Mr. Goodman increases the number of directors from nine to 10.
Mr. Goodman joined PepsiCo in 1992 and held a variety of senior financial positions within the company, including serving as chief financial officer. From 2010 to 2011, he was executive vice president, global operations. He retired from PepsiCo at the end of 2011. Earlier, he was with W.R. Grace & Co. in a variety of senior financial positions.
"The addition of Richard Goodman to Western Union's Board of Directors brings a global executive with strong financial credentials and accomplishments as our company continues to accelerate the delivery of its products and services to new customers," said Jack M. Greenberg, Chairman of the Board of Western Union. "We are looking forward to his advice and counsel in the coming years and anticipate that he will make a valuable contribution to Western Union's business."
About Western Union
The Western Union Company (NYSE: WU) is a leader in global payment services. Together with its Vigo, Orlandi Valuta, Pago Facil and Western Union Business Solutions branded payment services, Western Union provides consumers and businesses with fast, reliable and convenient ways to send and receive money around the world, to send payments and to purchase money orders. As of Sept. 30, 2011, the Western Union, Vigo and Orlandi Valuta branded services are offered through a combined network of approximately 485,000 agent locations in 200 countries and territories. In 2010, The Western Union Company completed 214 million consumer-to-consumer transactions worldwide, moving $76 billion of principal between consumers, and 405 million business payments. For more information, visit .
www.westernunion.com


