FILE:WU/WU-8K-20120207160558.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 7, 2012, The Western Union Company (the "Company") issued a press release relating to the Company's earnings for the fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2011 (the "Earnings Release"). A copy of the Earnings Release is attached as Exhibit 99.1. The information furnished under this Item 2.02, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to such filing.
 
In connection with the issuance of the Earnings Release, the Company is holding a public conference call and webcast on February 7, 2012 at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time, during which Hikmet Ersek, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Scott T. Scheirman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will provide the presentation attached as Exhibit 99.2. Information regarding access to the conference call and webcast is set forth in the Earnings Release. The information furnished under this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.2 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to such filing.
 
The following is a list of the Exhibits furnished herewith.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
The Western Union Company (NYSE: WU) today reported financial results for the 2011 fourth quarter and full year, and its financial outlook for 2012.
Englewood, Colo., Feb. 7, 2012
Financial highlights for the full year included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial highlights for the quarter included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional highlights for the quarter included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Statistics
Additional key statistics for the quarter and historical trends can be found in the supplemental table included with this press release.
Dividend Increase
The Company also announced today that its board of directors has declared a 25% increase in the Company's quarterly dividend, to $0.10 per common share. The Company's previous quarterly dividend was $0.08 per common share. The board of directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.10 per common share, payable March 30, 2012 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 16, 2012.
"We realized many accomplishments in 2011. We exceeded our initial outlook for earnings per share, and delivered our highest full year revenue growth rate since 2008. Each of our consumer-to-consumer regions grew, with strong performance in electronic channels. Consumer bill payments continued its turnaround, and Western Union Business Solutions delivered double-digit revenue growth. We also returned $1 billion to shareholders through share repurchase and dividends."
Western Union President and Chief Executive Officer Hikmet Ersek commented,
Ersek continued, "In 2011 we further identified our long-term opportunities and needs, and created the strategic roadmaps that will drive our future growth. We structured our business around three growth areas: core consumer money transfer, business-to-business payments, and new ventures and services, including further expansion of electronic channels. We acquired two major super-agents, furthering our European consumer strategies, and expanded our agent network to 485,000 locations. We also completed the acquisition of Travelex Global Business Payments, which in combination with our existing Western Union Business Solutions gives us a strong foundation for growth in SME business-to-business payments."
Ersek added, "In 2012 our focus is on execution against the strategic roadmaps. While there are some near-term market challenges in parts of the world, the long-term opportunities for revenue growth and margin expansion are strong. We are committed to investing in our business to realize these opportunities, including building our business-to-business foundation and further developing our separate digital business in San Francisco, which will allow us to achieve true leadership and scale in e-channels. We also remain focused on generating and deploying strong cash flow, and today's announcement that we will be raising our quarterly dividend to ten cents per share reflects that commitment."
2012 Outlook
The Company expects the following financial outlook for 2012:
Revenue
 
 
The Company generally expects overall consumer-to-consumer constant currency revenue trends to be similar to the fourth quarter of 2011, and anticipates softness in Europe in 2012. The Company expects low double-digit constant currency revenue growth in Western Union Business Solutions, compared to pro forma full year 2011 results (TGBP was acquired November 7, 2011).
Operating Margins
 
 
 
Operating margins are expected to remain approximately the same as 2011 levels, excluding the impact of the TGBP integration expenses and prior year restructuring expenses. The Company anticipates 2012 margin benefits from revenue growth, currency hedges, consumer bill payments, lower deal costs and restructuring savings to be offset by acquisition related amortization, expanded infrastructure for its digital platforms, and other investments.
The 2012 GAAP operating margin includes approximately $50 million of integration expense related to the TGBP acquisition. Acquisition related intangibles amortization for Western Union Business Solutions, including TGBP, is expected to be approximately $60 million in 2012, which compares to approximately $20 million in 2011.
Other Income / Expense and Tax Rate
The Company anticipates 2012 net Other expense to increase from the prior year due to the $71 million of one-time gains in 2011 related to revaluation of the Angelo Costa S.r.l. and Finint S.r.l. equity investments and currency gains from foreign currency forward contracts on the TGBP acquisition.
The Company anticipates an effective tax rate in a range of 16% to 17% in 2012.
Earnings Per Share
 
 
The 2012 EPS range excluding TBGP integration expenses of $1.70 to $1.75 compares to $1.57 in 2011 excluding restructuring expenses and the tax benefit related to the IRS agreement. The expected EPS increase in 2012 is driven by increased revenue and a lower effective tax rate, partially offset by the $71 million of acquisition related non-recurring gains in 2011 in Other income / (expense). Operating margins in 2012 are expected to be similar to 2011.
Cash Flow from Operations
 
Non-GAAP Measures
Western Union presents a number of non-GAAP financial measures because management believes that these metrics provide meaningful supplemental information in addition to the GAAP metrics and provide comparability and consistency to prior periods. These non-GAAP financial measures include revenue change excluding TGBP, revenue change constant currency adjusted, revenue change constant currency adjusted and excluding TGBP, operating income margin excluding restructuring, operating income margin excluding restructuring and TGBP integration expense, EBITDA margin excluding restructuring and TGBP integration expense, earnings per share restructuring adjusted, earnings per share restructuring and IRS agreement adjusted, consumer-to-consumer segment revenue change constant currency adjusted, effective tax rate restructuring and IRS agreement adjusted, 2012 revenue change outlook constant currency adjusted, 2012 operating income margin outlook TGBP integration expense adjusted, 2012 EBITDA margin outlook TGBP integration expense adjusted, 2012 earnings per share outlook TGBP integration expense adjusted, 2012 operating cash flow outlook IRS agreement adjusted, and additional measures found in the supplemental schedule included with this press release.
Reconciliations of non-GAAP to comparable GAAP measures are available in the accompanying schedules and in the "Investor Relations" section of the Company's website at .
www.westernunion.com
EBITDA
Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) results from taking operating income and adjusting for depreciation and amortization expenses. The 2012 EBITDA outlook has been adjusted to exclude TGBP integration expense, and the 2011 EBITDA has been
adjusted to exclude TGBP integration expense and restructuring expenses. EBITDA results provide an additional performance measurement calculation which helps neutralize the income statement effect of assets acquired in prior periods.
Integration
The Company expects approximately $50 million of integration expense for TGBP in 2012 and incurred approximately $5 million in the fourth quarter of 2011. TGBP integration expense consists primarily of severance and other benefits, retention, direct and incremental expense consisting of facility relocation, consolidation and closures; IT systems integration; and other expenses such as training, travel and professional fees. Integration expense does not include costs related to the completion of the TGBP acquisition.
Restructuring
The Company has recorded a total of $47 million of restructuring charges in 2011. Approximately $11 million was included in cost of services and $36 million was included in selling, general, and administrative expense. The restructuring charges relate primarily to organizational changes designed to simplify business processes, move decision-making closer to the marketplace, and create operating efficiencies. The Company realized pre-tax savings from the initiatives of $8 million in 2010, and approximately $55 million in 2011, and expects $70 million annualized beginning in 2012. Restructuring expenses are not reflected in segment operating results.
For the 2010 full year, Western Union incurred $60 million in restructuring expenses. Approximately $15 million was included in cost of services and $45 million was included in selling, general, and administrative expense.
Restructuring expenses include expenses related to severance, outplacement and other related benefits; facility closure and migration of IT infrastructure; and other expenses related to relocation of various operations to new or existing Company facilities and third-party providers, including hiring, training, relocation, travel, and professional fees. Also included in the facility closure expenses are non-cash expenses related to fixed asset and leasehold improvement write-offs, and the acceleration of depreciation and amortization.
Currency
Constant currency results assume foreign revenues and expenses are translated from foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar, net of the effect of foreign currency hedges, at rates consistent with those in the prior year. Constant currency results also assume any benefit or loss caused by foreign exchange fluctuations between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar, net of the effect of foreign currency hedges, would have been consistent with the prior year. Additionally, the measurement assumes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency derivatives not designated as hedges and the portion of fair value that is excluded from the measure of effectiveness for those contracts designated as hedges is consistent with the prior year.
Investor and Analyst Conference Call and Slide Presentation
The Company will host a conference call and webcast, including slides, at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time today. To listen to the conference call live via telephone, dial 866-202-3109 (U.S.) or +1-617-213-8844 (outside the U.S.) ten minutes prior to the start of the call. The pass code is 53183016.
The conference call and accompanying slides will be available via webcast at . Registration for the event is required, so please register at least five minutes prior to the scheduled start time.
http://ir.westernunion.com
A replay of the call will be available approximately two hours after the call ends through February 14, 2012, at 888-286-8010 (U.S.) or +1-617-801-6888 (outside the U.S.). The pass code is 82474210. A webcast replay will be available at for the same time period.
http://ir.westernunion.com
Please note: All statements made by Western Union officers on this call are the property of Western Union and subject to copyright protection. Other than the replay, Western Union has not authorized, and disclaims responsibility for, any recording, replay or distribution of any transcription of this call.
Safe Harbor Compliance Statement for Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain statements that are forward-looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, our forward-looking statements. Words such as "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "guides," "provides guidance," "provides outlook" and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "should," "would" and "could" are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Readers of this press release by The Western Union Company (the "Company," "Western Union," "we," "our" or "us") should not rely solely on the forward-looking statements and should consider all uncertainties and risks discussed in the "Risk Factors" section and throughout the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. The statements are only as of the date they are made, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Possible events or factors that could cause results or performance to differ materially from those expressed in our forward-looking statements include the following: changes in immigration laws, patterns and other factors related to migrants; our ability to adapt technology in response to changing industry and consumer needs or trends; our failure to develop and introduce new products, services and enhancements, and gain market acceptance of such products; the failure by us, our agents or their subagents to comply with our business and technology standards and contract requirements or applicable laws and regulations, especially laws designed to prevent money laundering, terrorist financing and anti-competitive behavior, and/or changing regulatory or enforcement interpretations of those laws; the impact on our business of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the rules promulgated there-under; changes in United States or foreign laws, rules and regulations including the Internal Revenue Code and governmental or judicial interpretations thereof; changes in general economic conditions and economic conditions in the regions and industries in which we operate; political conditions and related actions in the United States and abroad which may adversely affect our business and economic conditions as a whole; interruptions of United States government relations with countries in which we have or are implementing material
agent contracts; mergers, acquisitions and integration of acquired businesses and technologies into our Company, and the realization of anticipated financial benefits from these acquisitions; changes in, and failure to manage effectively exposure to, foreign exchange rates, including the impact of the regulation of foreign exchange spreads on money transfers and payment transactions; failure to comply with the settlement agreement with the State of Arizona; liabilities and unanticipated developments resulting from litigation and regulatory investigations and similar matters, including costs, expenses, settlements and judgments; failure to maintain sufficient amounts or types of regulatory capital to meet the changing requirements of our regulators worldwide; deterioration in consumers' and clients' confidence in our business, or in money transfer and payment service providers generally; failure to manage credit and fraud risks presented by our agents, clients and consumers or non-performance by our banks, lenders, other financial services providers or insurers; any material breach of security of or interruptions in any of our systems; our ability to attract and retain qualified key employees and to manage our workforce successfully; our ability to maintain our agent network and business relationships under terms consistent with or more advantageous to us than those currently in place; adverse rating actions by credit rating agencies; failure to compete effectively in the money transfer industry with respect to global and niche or corridor money transfer providers, banks and other money transfer services providers, including telecommunications providers, card associations, card-based payment providers and electronic and Internet providers; our ability to protect our brands and our other intellectual property rights; our failure to manage the potential both for patent protection and patent liability in the context of a rapidly developing legal framework for intellectual property protection; cessation of various services provided to us by third-party vendors; our ability to resolve tax matters consistent with our reserves; adverse movements and volatility in capital markets and other events which affect our liquidity, the liquidity of our agents or clients, or the value of, or our ability to recover our investments or amounts payable to us; decisions to downsize, sell or close units, or to transition operating activities from one location to another or to third parties, particularly transitions from the United States to other countries; changes in industry standards affecting our business; changes in accounting standards, rules and interpretations; significantly slower growth or declines in the money transfer market and other markets in which we operate; adverse consequences from our spin-off from First Data Corporation; decisions to change our business mix; catastrophic events; and management's ability to identify and manage these and other risks.
About Western Union
The Western Union Company (NYSE: WU) is a leader in global payment services. Together with its Vigo, Orlandi Valuta, Pago Facil and Western Union Business Solutions branded payment services, Western Union provides consumers and businesses with fast, reliable and convenient ways to send and receive money around the world, to send payments and to purchase money orders. As of December 31, 2011, the Western Union, Vigo and Orlandi Valuta branded services were offered through a combined network of approximately 485,000 agent locations in 200 countries and territories. In 2011, The Western Union Company completed 226 million consumer-to-consumer transactions worldwide, moving $81 billion of principal between consumers, and 425 million business payments. For more information, visit .
www.westernunion.com
WU-F, WU-G
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Western Union's management believes the non-GAAP financial measures presented provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operating results to assist management, investors, analysts, and others in understanding our financial results and to better analyze trends in our underlying business, because they provide consistency and comparability to prior periods.
A non-GAAP financial measure should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the most comparable GAAP financial measure. A non-GAAP financial measure reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the reconciliation to the corresponding GAAP financial measure, provide a more complete understanding of our business. Users of the financial statements are encouraged to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. A reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included below.
All adjusted year-over-year changes were calculated using prior year reported amounts.
 
 
2011 Effective Tax Rate
 
2012 Outlook Metrics
 
Non-GAAP related notes:
 
Other notes:
 



