FILE:WU/WU-8K-20120720160958.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d)
On July 20, 2012, The Western Union Company (the "Company") Board of Directors (the "Board") voted to appoint Solomon D. Trujillo to the Board and to the Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board, effective July 20, 2012.
There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Trujillo and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Trujillo was selected as a director. There are no transactions involving Mr. Trujillo requiring disclosure under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Mr. Trujillo will receive the standard compensation received by the Company's current non-employee, United States resident directors. These compensation arrangements are discussed in the Company's Proxy Statement dated April 10, 2012.
A copy of the press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Trujillo to the Board is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
Englewood, Colo., July 20, 2012  The Western Union Company (NYSE: WU), a leader in global payment services, announced today that Solomon D. Trujillo has been appointed to the company's Board of Directors, effective July 20, 2012, to serve until the next annual election of directors.
Mr. Trujillo, age 60, will serve on the compensation and benefits committee of the Board. The appointment of Mr. Trujillo increases the number of directors from nine to ten.
Mr. Trujillo served as the CEO and director of Telstra Corporation Limited (Australia) from July 2005 to June 2009. Earlier, he was CEO of Orange SA (EU); and chairman, president and CEO of Graviton, Inc. and chairman, president and CEO of US West  both in the US. He is the founder and chairman of Trujillo Group Investments, LLC. Additionally, he is a director of Target Corporation, WPP plc, and ProAmerica Bank.
"Solomon Trujillo brings a strong record of accomplishment as an executive with diverse companies around the globe and he is an excellent addition to the Western Union Board of Directors," said Jack M. Greenberg, Chairman of the Board of Western Union. "Given Mr. Trujillo's extensive background in mobile technology and financial services, we are looking forward to his advice and counsel in the coming years and anticipate that he will make a valuable contribution to Western Union's future."
About Western Union
The Western Union Company (NYSE: WU) is a leader in global payment services. Together with its Vigo, Orlandi Valuta, Pago Facil and Western Union Business Solutions branded payment services, Western Union provides consumers and businesses with fast, reliable and convenient ways to send and receive money around the world, to send payments and to purchase money orders. As of April 24, 2012, the Western Union, Vigo and Orlandi Valuta branded services were offered through a combined network of approximately 500,000 agent locations in 200 countries and territories. In 2011, The Western Union Company completed 226 million consumer-to-consumer transactions worldwide, moving $81 billion of principal between consumers, and 425 million business payments. For more information, visit www.westernunion.com.


