FILE:RDC/RDC-8K-20090723154308.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 21, 2009, Rowan Companies, Inc. (the Company) completed the issuance and sale of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 7.875% Senior Notes due 2019 (the Notes). In connection with this offering of the Notes, the Companys counsel provided the opinions attached hereto as Exhibits 5.1 and 8.1, each of which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: July 23, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
  
  
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We have acted as special counsel to Rowan Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ), in connection with the public offering of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 7.875% Senior Notes due 2019 (the ).  The Notes are being issued under an Indenture dated as of July 21, 2009 (the ), among the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the ), as amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture thereto dated as of July 21, 2009 (the ), between the Company and the Trustee.  The Base Indenture, as amended and supplemented by the Supplemental Indenture, is referenced herein as the .  The Notes are being sold pursuant to an Underwriting Agreement dated as of July 15, 2009 (the ), among the Company, Barclays Capital Inc. (), Goldman, Sachs & Co. () and each of the other underwriters named therein for whom Barclays and Goldman are acting as representatives (the ).
Company
Notes
Base Indenture
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Underwriting Agreement
Barclays
Goldman
Representatives
 
This opinion is being furnished in accordance with the requirements of Item 601(b)(5) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ).
Securities Act
 
In connection with this opinion, we have examined originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of:
 
(i)           the registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-160579) filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ) on July 15, 2009 (such registration statement, including the form of prospectus included therein and the documents incorporated by reference therein, being referred to herein as the );
SEC
Registration Statement
 
(ii)           the prospectus dated July 15, 2009, included in the Registration Statement, relating to the offering from time to time of the Companys debt securities (the );
Base Prospectus
 
(iii)           the preliminary prospectus supplement dated July 15, 2009, relating to the Notes, in the form filed on July 15, 2009 with the SEC, pursuant to Rule 424(b)(3) under the Securities Act (such prospectus supplement, together with the Base Prospectus, being referred to herein as the );
Preliminary Prospectus
 
(iv)           the term sheet relating to the Notes, filed on July 16, 2009 with the SEC as a free writing prospectus, pursuant to Rules 164 and 433 under the Securities Act;
 
Austin      Beijing      Dallas       Houston       London       Los Angeles      New York      The Woodlands     Washington, DC
 
 
Rowan Companies, Inc.
July 21, 2009
Page 2
  
(v)           the prospectus supplement dated July 15, 2009, relating to the Notes, in the form filed on July 16, 2009 with the SEC, pursuant to Rule 424(b)(5) under the Securities Act (such prospectus supplement, together with the Base Prospectus, being referred to herein as the );
Prospectus
 
(vi)          the Underwriting Agreement;
 
(vii)         the Indenture;
 
(viii)        the form of the Notes attached to the Supplemental Indenture;
 
(ix)           the global note (the ) executed by the Company pursuant to the Indenture, in the aggregate principal amount of $500,000,000, representing the Notes purchased and sold pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement;
Global Note
 
(x)            the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the Company, in each case as amended to date; and
 
(xi)           resolutions adopted by the board of directors of the Company relating to the Registration Statement, the Notes, the Indenture and related matters.
 
We have also examined originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of such records of the Company and such agreements, certificates of public officials, certificates of officers or other representatives of the Company and others, and such other documents, certificates and records as we have deemed necessary or appropriate as a basis for the opinions set forth herein.
 
In our examination, we have assumed the legal capacity of all natural persons, the genuineness of all signatures, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals and the conformity to authentic original documents of all documents submitted to us as certified, conformed or photostatic copies.  In making our examination of executed documents or documents to be executed, we have assumed that the parties thereto, other than the Company, had or will have the power, corporate or other, to enter into and perform all obligations thereunder and have also assumed the due authorization by all requisite action, corporate or other, and execution and delivery by such parties of such documents and, except as set forth below, the validity and binding effect on such parties.  As to any facts material to the opinions expressed herein which we have not independently established or verified, we have relied upon statements and representations of officers and other representatives of the Company and others.
 
We express no opinion other than as to the laws of the State of New York that are normally applicable to transactions of the type contemplated by the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the Notes.
 
Based upon the foregoing and subject to the limitations, qualifications, exceptions and assumptions set forth herein, we are of the opinion that when (i) the Supplemental Indenture (in the form examined by us) has been duly executed and delivered by the Company and the Trustee in accordance with the terms of the Base Indenture and (ii) the Global Note (in the form examined by us) has been duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and has been delivered in accordance with the terms of the Underwriting Agreement and the Indenture, the Notes will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company.
 
 
Rowan Companies, Inc.
July 21, 2009
Page 3
  
Our opinion above is subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfer or conveyance), reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws affecting creditors rights generally and to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law), including, without limitation, (a) the possible unavailability of specific performance, injunctive relief or any other equitable remedy and (b) concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing, and we express no opinion herein with respect to provisions relating to severability or separability. Our opinion, insofar as it pertains to the choice of law provision of the Notes, is rendered solely in reliance upon New York General Obligations Law Section 5-1401, and is  expressly conditioned upon the assumption that the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability of said provision will be determined by a court of the State of New York or a United States federal court sitting in New York and applying New York choice of law rules, including said Section 5-1401. We express no opinion as to any constitutional limitations upon said Section 5-1401 or their effect, if any, upon any opinion herein expressed.
 
In rendering the opinion expressed above with respect to the Notes, we have assumed that the form and terms of such Notes, the issuance, sale and delivery thereof by the Company, and the incurrence and performance of the Companys obligations thereunder or in respect thereof (including, without limitation, its obligations under the Indenture with respect to the Notes) in accordance with the terms thereof, will comply with, and will not violate, any applicable order, judgment, decree or award, or any contract, indenture, mortgage, loan agreement, note, lease or other agreement or instrument, in each case, binding upon the Company, or to which the issuance, sale and delivery of such Notes, or the incurrence and performance of such obligations, may be subject.
 
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion with the SEC as an exhibit to a Current Report of the Company on Form 8-K and to the reference to this firm under the heading Legal Matters in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.  In giving this consent, we do not thereby admit that we are included in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the SEC.  This opinion is expressed as of the date hereof, and we disclaim any undertaking to advise you of any subsequent changes in the facts stated or assumed herein, or of any subsequent changes in applicable law.
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 8.1
Rowan Companies, Inc.
2800 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 5450
Houston, Texas 77056
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special counsel to Rowan Companies, Inc. (the ), a Delaware corporation, in connection with the offering and sale (the ) of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Companys 7.875% Senior Notes due 2019 (the ), pursuant to the registration statement on Form S-3ASR dated July 15, 2009 (the ) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ), and the prospectus supplement dated July 15, 2009 (the ).  In connection therewith, we have participated in the preparation of the discussion set forth under the caption Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations (the ) in the Prospectus Supplement.  Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein are used as defined in the Registration Statement.
Company
Offering
Debt Securities
Registration Statement
Commission
Act
Prospectus Supplement
Discussion
 
The Discussion, subject to the qualifications and assumptions stated in the Discussion and the limitations and qualifications set forth herein, constitutes our opinion as to the material United States federal income tax considerations for purchasers of the Debt Securities pursuant to the Offering.
 
This opinion letter is limited to the matters set forth herein, and no opinions are intended to be implied or may be inferred beyond those expressly stated herein.  Our opinion is rendered as of the date hereof and we assume no obligation to update or supplement this opinion or any matter related to this opinion to reflect any change of fact, circumstances, or law after the date hereof.  In addition, our opinion is based on the assumption that the matter will be properly presented to the applicable court.
 
Austin         Beijing         Dallas          Houston          London          New York         The Woodlands         Washington, DC
 
 
Rowan Companies, Inc.
July 23, 2009
Page 2
   
Furthermore, our opinion is not binding on the Internal Revenue Service or a court.  In addition, we must note that our opinion represents merely our best legal judgment on the matters presented and that others may disagree with our conclusion.  There can be no assurance that the Internal Revenue Service will not take a contrary position or that a court would agree with our opinion if litigated.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to a Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company, the incorporation by reference of this opinion in the Registration Statement and to the references to our firm and this opinion contained in the Prospectus Supplement forming a part of the Registration Statement.  In giving this consent, we do not admit that we are experts under the Act, or under the rules and regulations of the Commission relating thereto, with respect to any part of the Registration Statement, including this exhibit to the Current Report on Form 8-K.
TRP/RJM
 
 
 
 


