FILE:RDC/RDC-8K-20100309094245.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
             
 
 
            
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On March 4, 2010, the Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors of Rowan Companies, Inc. (the Company) met and made the following recommendations regarding compensation for the Companys named executive officers (NEOs).  Such recommendations were reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors in its meeting on March 5, 2010.
2009 Annual Incentive Plan Awards
In 2009, the NEOs participated in a targeted annual incentive bonus plan (AIP). Each participant in the AIP has an incentive target that is a percentage of base salary. Awards are generally based on performance of our Drilling Division, which provides the large majority of the Companys earnings. The plan used five financial and operational metrics, as described below, each based on the Drilling Divisions performance. The bonus pool could be as low as zero or as high as 200% of target depending on the achievement of the metrics shown below.  Based on the 2009 results shown below, the pool was funded at 140%.
 
 
- 2 - -
 
After the AIP pool was funded, the CEO recommended an award based on each individuals performance in 2009. The Committee and Board reviewed such recommendations and approved the following awards for the NEOs:
 
2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) Awards
The NEOs long-term incentive awards are based on a multiple of base salary. Of such value, 50% is provided in stock appreciation rights (SARs) and 50% in restricted stock, each vesting over a three-year period. The value to be delivered in restricted stock was determined by performance in 2009 against the following long-term goals:
 
 
 
 
Based on the Committees assessment of performance of the Company and the individuals with respect to these goals, the following long-term incentive awards were made on March 5, 2010:
 
 
 
 
 
- 3 - -
 
2010 Adjustments to Base Salary, AIP Targets and LTIP Multiples
The Committee and Board also approved the following adjustments to 2010 base salary (effective as of April 1), 2010 AIP targets and 2010 long-term incentive multiples:
 
 
 
2010 Annual Incentive Plan
The Board approved the same plan metrics for the 2010 AIP as shown above for the 2009 AIP, with adjustments to the potential award levels based on the Companys 2010 budgeted EBITDA and costs and targeted improvements with respect to safety, capital projects, and contracted non-productive downtime.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
None.
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
ROWAN COMPANIES, INC.
 
By:  /s/ William H. Wells
William H. Wells
Senior Vice President & CFO
(Principal Financial Officer)
Dated: March 9, 2010
 
 
 
 
- 4 - - 


