FILE:RDC/RDC-8K-20110628170136.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
As previously reported, on May 13, 2011, Rowan Companies, Inc. (the ) entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (the ) with Joy Global Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ), pursuant to which the Buyer agreed to purchase from the Company all of the issued and outstanding common stock of LeTourneau Technologies, Inc., a Texas corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (the ).
Company
Purchase Agreement
Buyer
LeTourneau Common Stock
On June 22, 2011, the Company completed the sale of the LeTourneau Common Stock to the Buyer.  Under the terms and subject to the conditions of the Purchase Agreement, as consideration for the LeTourneau Common Stock, the Buyer paid to the Company $1.1 billion in cash, less a $54.3 million adjustment for a prepayment from a large customer and subject to a working capital adjustment as provided in the Purchase Agreement.  The Buyer does not have a material relationship with the Company or its affiliates, directors or officers or with any associate of any such director or officer.
 
In connection with the disposition of the LeTourneau Common Stock, attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information of the Company and related descriptions of pro forma adjustments thereto.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On June 22, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing the completion of the sale of LeTourneau Common Stock under the Purchase Agreement. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
The information disclosed under this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.2, is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section and such information, including Exhibit 99.2, shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Exchange Act
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(b)          
Pro Forma Financial Information
Pro forma consolidated financial information required pursuant to Article 11 of Regulation S-X is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein. The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 filed with the Securities and Exchange (the ) on March 1, 2011 and the consolidated financial statements filed with the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 filed with the SEC on May 3, 2011.
SEC
(d)          
Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed with this report:
 
1
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
On June 22, 2011, Rowan Companies, Inc. (Rowan and, together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the Company) completed the sale of all of the issued and outstanding common stock of LeTourneau Technologies, Inc. (LeTourneau) pursuant to a stock purchase agreement dated May 13, 2011 (the Purchase Agreement), between Rowan, as seller, and Joy Global Inc., as buyer. The purchase price was $1.1 billion in cash, subject, however, to certain post-closing working capital and other adjustments as specified in the Purchase Agreement.
The following unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information was derived from (i) the unaudited historical financial statements of the Company as of March 31, 2011, and for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, and (ii) the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008.  The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information contained herein should be read in conjunction with the historical quarterly and annual consolidated financial statements of the Company from which the pro forma financial information was derived.
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information as of March 31, 2011, gives effect to the sale of LeTourneau as though the sale occurred on March 31, 2011, and the unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, and for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008 gives effect to the sale of LeTourneau as though the transaction occurred on January 1, 2008, which is the beginning of the earliest period presented.
 
 
 
(a) Estimated net cash proceeds from sale, after estimated working capital adjustments of $54 million, estimated employee-related costs of $8 million, and estimated transaction costs of $10 million.
 
(b) Assets and liabilities transferred from LeTourneau to the Company in connection with the transfer to the Company of an equipment purchase agreement between LeTourneau, as seller, and a customer, under the terms of the Purchase Agreement.
 
(c) Estimated income tax effects of the gain on sale of LeTourneau.
 
(d) Estimated after-tax gain on sale, which totals $432 million.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rowan Companies, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended December 31, 2009
Assuming sale of LeTourneau occurred on January 1, 2008
(in thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Joy Global Inc. and Rowan Companies, Inc. Announce the Completion of LeTourneau Technologies Inc. Acquisition
6/22/2011
 
MILWAUKEE--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Joy Global Inc. ("Joy Global") (NASDAQ: - ), a worldwide leader in high-productivity mining solutions, has completed the acquisition of LeTourneau Technologies Inc. ("LeTourneau") from Rowan Companies, Inc. ("Rowan") (NYSE: - ) for $1.1 billion in cash, subject to adjustment as provided in the Stock Purchase Agreement dated May 13, 2011.
JOYG
News
RDC
News
 
LeTourneau is a world leader in the manufacture of large capacity wheel loaders for the surface mining market as well as jack-up rigs and ancillary equipment for the oil and gas drilling industries.
 
Michael Sutherlin, CEO Joy Global, said, "The acquisition of LeTourneau brings two very strong business platforms to Joy Global. LeTourneau's wheel loaders are the largest and most fuel efficient in the industry and their complementary application to our electric mining shovels will deliver significant synergies. LeTourneau is also a leading brand in oil and gas drilling rig equipment and design and this business is leveraged to an emerging demand for higher specification rigs. We welcome the people of LeTourneau to Joy Global, and look forward to working with them to capture the opportunities that come with these two businesses."
 
Matt Ralls, President and CEO Rowan, said, "We are delighted to have achieved this combination and are confident it will create additional opportunities for LeTourneau and its employees. I extend my thanks and appreciation to both the Joy Global and Rowan/LeTourneau teams who made the transaction happen."
 
.
Joy Global is a world-wide leader in manufacturing, distributing and servicing equipment for surface mining through P&H Mining Equipment and underground mining through Joy Mining Machinery. For more information on Joy Global, please visit
www.joyglobal.com
 
Rowan Companies, Inc. is a major provider of international and domestic contract drilling services with a fleet of 28 jack-up rigs located worldwide, including the Middle East, the North Sea, Trinidad, the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and Mexico.
Rowan has a leading position in high-specification jack-up rigs, which remain in high demand.
Rowan is also entering the ultra deepwater market with high-specification drillships with capability advantages and built-in redundancies.
Rowan's stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "RDC".
For more information on Rowan, please visit
www.rowancompanies.com
.
 
JOYG-G
RDC
 
Contact:
Joy Global Inc.
Michael S. Olsen, 414-319-8507
Executive Vice President,
Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
 
 
 
 


