FILE:RDC/RDC-8K-20120504150457.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Credit Agreement
On May 4, 2012, Rowan Companies plc, a public limited company organized under English law ("Rowan UK"), became a party to and a guarantor under the Credit Agreement dated September 16, 2010, with Rowan Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Rowan Delaware"), Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Swingline Lender, Issuing Lender, a Lender and Administrative Agent, and certain other lenders (as heretofore amended, the "Credit Agreement"), pursuant to Amendment No. 2 to the Credit Agreement entered into on May 4, 2012 (the "Credit Agreement Amendment") in connection with the Redomestication (as defined below).
In connection with the Credit Agreement Amendment and the Redomestication, on May 4, 2012, Rowan UK entered into a Parent Guaranty (the "Credit Agreement Guaranty") in favor of Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the lenders to the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement Amendment provides that Rowan UK is a borrower under the Credit Agreement and makes certain other changes thereto, and the Credit Agreement Guaranty provides that Rowan UK fully and unconditionally guarantees the obligations of Rowan Delaware under the Credit Agreement, in each case as amended by the Credit Agreement Amendment.
The foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement Amendment and the Credit Agreement Guaranty, which are attached as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, and are incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference.
Supplemental Indenture
On May 4, 2012, Rowan UK and Rowan Delaware entered into a Third Supplemental Indenture (the "Third Supplemental Indenture") by and among Rowan UK, Rowan Delaware and the Trustee to the Indenture, dated as of July 21, 2009, as amended and supplemented by the first supplemental indenture thereto, dated July 21, 2009, and the second supplemental indenture thereto, dated August 30, 2010 (as amended and supplemented, the "Indenture"), by and between Rowan Delaware and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"). Pursuant to the Third Supplemental Indenture, certain terms of Rowan Delaware's 5% Senior Notes due 2017 and 7.875% Senior Notes due 2019 (collectively, the "Rowan Notes") were amended to provide for the unconditional and irrevocable guarantee by Rowan UK of the prompt payment, when due, of any amount owed to the holders of the Rowan Notes and to make other technical changes. The Third Supplemental Indenture did not require the consent of the holders of the Rowan Notes.
The foregoing is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Indenture, the first supplemental indenture thereto, the second supplemental indenture thereto and the Third Supplemental Indenture, which are attached as Exhibits 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4, respectively, and are incorporated into this Item 1.01 by reference.
Deeds of Indemnity
The information under the heading "Deeds of Indemnity" in Item 5.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated by reference.
 
The information under the heading "Termination of Deposit Agreement" in Item 2.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated by reference.
 
Completion of Merger
At 12:01 a.m. Eastern Time on May 4, 2012 (the "Effective Time"), Rowan UK became the successor issuer to Rowan Delaware following the completion of the merger (the "Merger") between Rowan Delaware and one of its subsidiaries pursuant to an agreement and plan of merger and reorganization dated February 27, 2012 (as amended, the "Merger Agreement") that was previously approved by our stockholders on April 16, 2012. As a result of the Merger, Rowan UK became the parent company of the Rowan group of companies and our place of incorporation was effectively changed from Delaware to the United Kingdom ("U.K."). We refer to the transactions effecting these changes collectively as the "Redomestication."
Termination of Deposit Agreement
On May 4, 2012, following the completion of the Merger, Rowan UK terminated the Deposit Agreement dated December 5, 2011, between Rowan UK and Citibank, N.A. (the "Deposit Agreement"). Prior to such termination, Citibank, N.A., acted as depositary for the Class A Ordinary Shares of Rowan UK, par value $0.125 per share ("Ordinary Shares"), and issued American depositary shares (collectively, the "ADS") representing Ordinary Shares that were held prior to the Merger by a subsidiary of Rowan Delaware. At the Effective Time, shares of Rowan Delaware common stock, par value $0.125 per share, were converted into the right to receive ADS. Immediately after the Effective Time and following the termination of the Deposit Agreement, the ADS were cancelled and the underlying Ordinary Shares are now deliverable (on a one-for-one basis) to former holders of outstanding shares of Rowan Delaware common stock.
Registration of Ordinary Shares
The Ordinary Shares were registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-179749) (the "Registration Statement") filed by Rowan UK, which was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") on March 5, 2012. The Ordinary Shares now trade on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "RDC," the symbol for Rowan Delaware common stock prior to the Effective Time.
DTC Facility
On May 4, 2012, Rowan UK entered into an arrangement with The Depository Trust Company ("DTC") and its related parties (the "DTC agreement") whereby the Ordinary Shares became eligible for deposit and book-entry transfer services at DTC on May 4, 2012. The DTC agreement provides, among other items, that we will indemnify DTC and its related parties for any U.K. stamp duty and/or U.K. stamp duty reserve tax ("SDRT") that may be assessed upon any of them as a result of their accepting the Ordinary Shares for deposit and providing book-entry transfer, clearance and settlement services for the Ordinary Shares. The DTC agreement also provides that DTC has discretion in certain circumstances to restrict services to, or exit from the depository and book-entry transfer services, the Ordinary Shares, including if DTC believes that it or any of its related parties might have any liability for stamp duty and/or SDRT in respect of the Ordinary Shares.
If, at any time after the consummation of the Merger, the Ordinary Shares are no longer eligible for DTC's depository and book-entry transfer services, then we believe the Ordinary Shares would not be eligible for continued listing on a U.S. securities exchange or inclusion in the S&P 500 index and trading in the Ordinary Shares would be disrupted. While we would pursue alternative arrangements to preserve our listing and maintain trading, any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of the Ordinary Shares.
At the Effective Time, Rowan UK acquired ownership of Rowan Delaware and its subsidiaries. Pursuant to Rule 414 of the Securities Act and Rule 12g-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), Rowan UK is the successor issuer to Rowan Delaware and the Ordinary Shares are deemed to be registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act. The Merger Agreement and Amendment No. 1 to the Merger Agreement are attached as Exhibits 2.1 and 2.2, respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing summary of the Merger Agreement (including Amendment No. 1 to the Merger Agreement) is qualified in its entirety by reference to such Exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
The proxy statement/prospectus that forms a part of the Registration Statement (including the filings incorporated by reference herein) contains additional information about the Redomestication and the Merger.
 
The descriptions of the Credit Agreement Amendment, the Credit Agreement Guaranty and the Third Supplemental Indenture included under Item 1.01 are incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information included under Items 2.01, 5.03 and 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Deed of Assumption and Plan Amendments
On May 4, 2012, Rowan UK executed a Deed of Assumption (the "Deed of Assumption") pursuant to which Rowan UK (i) assumed, as of the Effective Time, the 2009 Rowan Companies, Inc. Incentive Plan and related agreements of Rowan Delaware for purposes of granting awards thereunder in the future (the "Assumed Plan"), and (ii) assumed, as of the Effective Time, the administration of the following equity incentive and benefit plans and related agreements of Rowan Delaware that will remain sponsored by Rowan Delaware: 2005 Rowan Companies, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan, Rowan Companies, Inc. 1998 Nonemployee Director Stock Option Plan, Rowan Companies, Inc. Restated 1988 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan, Rowan Companies, Inc. Savings and Investment Plan, and administration of awards granted by Rowan Delaware prior to the Effective Time under the Assumed Plan (each, a "Remaining Plan" and collectively, the "Remaining Plans" and together with the Assumed Plan, the "Plans"). The Deed of Assumption is filed as Exhibit 10.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Plans have been amended, effective as of the Effective Time, (i) to allow Rowan UK to adopt and assume the Assumed Plan as of the Effective Time and to provide for the appropriate substitution of Rowan UK in place of Rowan Delaware where applicable; (ii) to the extent the Assumed Plan or any Remaining Plan provides for the grant, issuance, acquisition, delivery, holding or purchase of, or otherwise relates to or references, shares of common stock of Rowan Delaware, then after the Effective Time, to provide that such plan shall be deemed to provide for the grant, issuance, acquisition, delivery, holding or purchase of, or otherwise relate to or reference, Ordinary Shares, or benefits or other amounts determined by reference to such Ordinary Shares, on a one-for-one basis; (iii) to adjust all outstanding equity awards that have been granted under the Assumed Plan and Remaining Plans, as of the Effective Time, to Ordinary Shares or rights over Ordinary Shares, as applicable, which are exercisable, issuable, held, available or which vest upon the same terms and conditions as under the applicable plan and the applicable award document or agreement issued thereunder, except that upon the exercise, issuance, holding, availability or vesting of such awards, Ordinary Shares shall be issuable or available on a one-for-one basis, or benefits or other amounts shall be determined by reference to such Ordinary Shares; (iv) to affirm that, to the extent the Merger constitutes a "Change in Control" or "Corporate Change" or any similar phrase or concept defined under the Plans, no adjustments other than those provided for in the Merger Agreement to any awards outstanding under the Plans are necessary; and (v) to comply with applicable English or U.S. corporate or tax law requirements (collectively, the "Plan Amendments"). In order to facilitate administration of the Plans and compliance with various English legal
 
requirements, Rowan UK has established an employee benefit trust into which it deposited 500,000 Ordinary Shares in conjunction with the Merger. Copies of the Plan Amendments and related amended award agreements or notices adopted in connection with the Redomestication are filed as Exhibits 10.4-10.11 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference.
The foregoing summaries of the Deed of Assumption and Plan Amendments are qualified in their entirety by reference to the corresponding Exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Change in Control Agreements
Rowan Delaware previously entered into change in control agreements and supplements thereto from time to time with certain of its officers which provide that, in the event the employment of the officer is terminated or modified under certain circumstances following a change in control of Rowan Delaware, Rowan Delaware will pay the officer certain sums and benefits (as supplemented, collectively, the "CIC Agreements"). In connection with the Redomestication Rowan Delaware is entering into an additional supplement to the CIC Agreement with each of such officers (collectively, the "CIC Supplements"), which changes the definition of "Change in Control" to be interpreted with respect to the ownership of Rowan UK and not with respect to the ownership of Rowan Delaware, and makes certain related changes to the CIC Agreement.
The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the form of CIC Supplement, which is attached as Exhibit 10.12 and is incorporated into this Item 5.02 by reference.
Election of Directors and Appointment of Officers
As of the Effective Time, in connection with the Merger, the directors of Rowan UK in place prior to the Effective Time resigned, and each of the directors of Rowan Delaware immediately prior to the Effective Time has been elected as a director of Rowan UK.
As of the Effective Time, each of the officers of Rowan UK in place prior to the Effective Time resigned, and the following persons have been appointed to the following officer positions with Rowan UK, the same positions they held with Rowan Delaware:
 
Deeds of Indemnity
Effective May 4, 2012, Rowan UK entered into a deed of indemnity with each of its directors and the officers listed above. In addition, prior indemnification agreements with Rowan Delaware remain in place. These agreements provide for Rowan UK and Rowan Delaware to, among other things, indemnify the individual against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of his or her status or service as a director or officer, to advance expenses incurred as a result of certain proceedings and to cover him or her under applicable directors' and officers' liability insurance policies. These agreements are intended to provide indemnification rights to the fullest extent permitted under U.K. and Delaware law, as applicable, and under the governing documents of Rowan UK and Rowan Delaware. The foregoing description of the deeds of indemnity is qualified in its entirety by reference to the form of Rowan UK deed of indemnity, which is filed as Exhibit 10.13 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
 
In connection with the Redomestication, Rowan UK (previously known as Rowan Companies Limited but re-registered as Rowan Companies plc) amended its articles of association, effective as of May 4, 2012 (the "New Articles"), which New Articles will govern Rowan UK. The summary of the material terms of the New Articles described under the heading "Description of Class A Ordinary Shares of Rowan UK" in Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and, as it relates to Ordinary Shares, under the heading "Comparison of Rights of Stockholders/Shareholders" in the Registration Statement, are incorporated herein by reference. The complete text of the New Articles is attached as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and is incorporated herein by reference. The summary of the New Articles is qualified in its entirety by reference to such Exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
General
The following information is a summary of the material terms of the Ordinary Shares, as specified in the New Articles. You are encouraged to read the New Articles carefully. As detailed above, in conjunction with the Merger, former holders of Rowan Delaware common stock will receive (on a one-for-one basis) Ordinary Shares.
All of the issued Ordinary Shares are fully paid and not subject to any further calls or assessments by Rowan UK. There are no conversion rights, redemption provisions or sinking fund provisions relating to any Ordinary Shares. The Ordinary Shares are not admitted to the CREST system.
Under English law, persons who are neither residents nor nationals of the U.K. may freely hold, vote and transfer the Ordinary Shares in the same manner and under the same terms as U.K. residents or nationals.
In connection with the listing of the Ordinary Shares on the NYSE, Rowan UK became a "quoted company" for purposes of the U.K. Companies Act 2006 (the "Companies Act"), which provides certain additional rights and disclosure obligations by Rowan UK. These rights and obligations include, among others, the right to raise audit concerns, the right to require an independent report on poll votes and additional disclosure in Rowan UK's annual report.
Share Capital
As of the Effective Time, there were 124,734,407 Ordinary Shares in issue and 50,000 Class B Ordinary Shares in issue. The board of directors of Rowan UK (the "Rowan UK Board") is authorized, for a period of five years from April 30, 2012, to allot shares in Rowan UK, or to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in Rowan UK, up to an aggregate nominal amount of $18,750,000 and to exclude preemptive rights in respect of such allotments for the same period of time. Such newly allotted shares will be in such classes, including Ordinary Shares, and have such rights as the Rowan UK Board shall determine at the time of allotment and issuance.
The Ordinary Shares and the Class B Ordinary Shares will have the same rights and privileges in all respects, except that the Class B Ordinary Shares will have no voting rights or rights to dividends or distributions to the extent that they are held by Rowan Delaware.
 
Dividends
Subject to the Companies Act, the Rowan UK Board may declare a dividend to be paid to the shareholders according to their respective rights and interests in Rowan UK and may fix the time for payment of such dividend. The Rowan UK Board may from time to time declare and pay (on any class of shares of any amounts and in any currency) dividends on its issued share capital only out of its distributable profits. Under English law, "distributable profits" are a company's accumulated, realized profits, so far as not previously utilized by distribution or capitalization, less its accumulated, realized losses, so far as not previously written off in a reduction or reorganization of capital duly made, calculated on a standalone basis. Distributable profits are determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.K. at the time the relevant accounts are prepared. Rowan UK will not be permitted to make a distribution if, at the time, the amount of its net assets is less than the aggregate of its called-up share capital and undistributable reserves or to the extent that the distribution will reduce the net assets below such amount.
There are no fixed dates on which entitlement to dividends arise on any of the Ordinary Shares. The Rowan UK Board may direct the payment of all or any part of a dividend to be satisfied by distributing specific assets, in particular paid up shares or debentures of any other company. The New Articles also permit a scrip dividend scheme under which shareholders may be given the opportunity to elect to receive fully paid Ordinary Shares instead of cash with respect to all or part of future dividends.
If a shareholder owes any money to Rowan UK relating in any way to any class of shares of Rowan UK, the Rowan UK Board may deduct any of this money from any dividend on any shares held by the shareholder, or from other money payable by Rowan UK in respect of the shares. Money deducted in this way may be used to pay the amount owed to Rowan UK.
Unclaimed dividends and other amounts payable by Rowan UK in respect of an Ordinary Share can be invested or otherwise used by directors for the benefit of Rowan UK until they are claimed under English law. A dividend or other money remaining unclaimed for a period of 12 years after it first became due for payment will be forfeited and cease to remain owed by Rowan UK.
Voting Rights
At a general meeting any resolutions put to a vote must be decided on a poll.
Subject to any rights or restrictions as to voting attached to any class of shares in accordance with the New Articles and subject to disenfranchisement, (i) in the event of non-payment of any call or other sum due and payable in respect of any shares not fully paid, (ii) in the event of any non-compliance with any statutory notice requiring disclosure of an interest in shares, or (iii) with respect to any shares held by any subsidiary of Rowan UK, every shareholder (other than Rowan Delaware or any other subsidiary of Rowan UK) who (being an individual) is present in person or (being a corporation) is present by a duly authorized corporate representative at a general meeting of the shareholders of Rowan UK will have one vote for every Ordinary Share of which such person is the holder, and every person present who has been appointed as a proxy shall have one vote for every share in respect of which such person is the proxy.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the person whose name stands first in the register of shareholders and who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, is accepted to the exclusion of any votes tendered by any other joint holders.
The necessary quorum for a general shareholder meeting is the shareholders who together represent at least the majority of the voting rights of all the shareholders entitled to vote present in person or by proxy (i.e., any shares whose voting rights have been disenfranchised, whether pursuant to the Companies Act and/or under the New Articles, shall be disregarded for the purposes of determining a quorum).
An annual general meeting shall be called by not less than 21 clear days' notice and no more than 60 days' notice. For all other general meetings except general meetings properly requisitioned by shareholders, such meetings shall be called by not less than 14 clear days' notice and no more than 60 days' notice. The notice of meeting must
 
also specify a time by which a person must be entered on the register in order to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting. Under English law, if the Ordinary Shares are issued in uncertificated form or are admitted to trading on a regulated market in the European Economic Area, that time must not be more than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting with no account being taken of any part of a day that is not a working day. In calculating the period mentioned, "clear days" means calendar days and excludes (i) the date a notice is given or a request received and (ii) the date of the meeting itself. The number of shares then registered in their respective names shall determine the number of votes a person is entitled to cast at that meeting.
An appointment of proxy (whether in hard copy form or electronic form, or any other form or manner of communication approved by the Rowan UK Board) must be received by Rowan UK before the time specified by the Rowan UK Board. In the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after the meeting at which the relevant vote was to be taken, an appointment of proxy must be received after such meeting and not less than 24 hours (or such shorter time as the Rowan UK Board may determine) before the time appointed for taking the poll; or in the case of a poll not taken immediately but taken not more than 48 hours after the meeting, the appointment of proxy must be delivered at the meeting at which the poll is to be taken. An appointment of proxy not received or delivered in accordance with the New Articles is invalid under English law.
Return of Capital
In the event of a voluntary winding-up of Rowan UK, the liquidator may, on obtaining any sanction required by law, divide among the shareholders the whole or any part of the assets of Rowan UK, whether or not the assets consist of property of one kind or of different kinds.
The liquidator may also, with the same authority, transfer the whole or any part of the assets to trustees upon any trusts for the benefit of the shareholders as the liquidator decides. No past or present shareholder can be compelled to accept any asset which could subject him or her to a liability.
Preemptive Rights and New Issues of Shares
Under Section 549 of the Companies Act, directors are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot securities without being authorized either by the shareholders in a general meeting or by the New Articles pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act. In addition, under the Companies Act, the issuance of equity securities that are to be paid for wholly in cash (except shares held under an employees' share scheme) must be offered first to the existing equity shareholders in proportion to the respective nominal (i.e., par) values of their holdings on the same or more favorable terms, unless a special resolution (i.e., 75 percent of votes cast) to the contrary has been passed in a general meeting of shareholders or the articles of association otherwise provide an exclusion from this requirement (which exclusion can be for a maximum of five years after which shareholders approval would be required to renew the exclusion). In this context, equity securities generally means in relation to Ordinary Shares (being shares other than shares which with respect to dividends or capital, carry a right to participate only up to a specified amount in a distribution) and all rights to subscribe for or convert securities into such shares.
The Rowan UK Board is authorized (generally and unconditionally), for a period up to five years from April 30, 2012, to allot shares, or to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in Rowan UK, up to an aggregate nominal amount of $18,750,000 and to exclude preemptive rights in respect of such issuances for the same period of time. Such authority will continue for five years and thereafter it must be renewed by a vote of the shareholders, but Rowan UK may seek renewal for additional five year terms more frequently. Rowan UK may, before the expiration of any such authority, make an offer or agreement which would or might require Ordinary Shares to be allotted (or rights to be granted) after such expiration, and the Rowan UK Board may allot shares or grant rights in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority to allot had not expired.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act and to any rights attached to any existing shares, any Ordinary Shares may be issued with, or have attached to them, such rights or restrictions as the shareholders of Rowan UK may by ordinary resolution determine or, where the above authorizations are in place, the Rowan UK Board may determine such rights or restrictions.
 
The Companies Act prohibits an English company from issuing shares for no consideration, including with respect to Ordinary Shares to be issued pursuant to stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and restricted stock units granted under any equity incentive plan of Rowan UK. Accordingly, the nominal value of the Ordinary Shares issued pursuant to any such award or any other share-based award granted under any equity incentive plan of Rowan UK must be paid pursuant to the Companies Act.
Disclosure of Interests in Shares
Section 793 of the Companies Act provides Rowan UK the power to require persons whom it knows has, or whom it has reasonable cause to believe has, or within the previous three years has had, any ownership interest in any shares (which are referred to as the "default shares") to disclose prescribed particulars of those shares. For this purpose, "default shares" includes any shares allotted or issued after the date of the Section 793 notice in respect of those shares. Failure to provide the information requested within the prescribed period after the date of sending the notice will result in sanctions being imposed against the holder of the default shares as provided within the Companies Act.
Under the New Articles, Rowan UK will also withdraw voting and certain other rights, place restrictions on the rights to receive dividends and transfer default shares if the relevant holder of default shares has failed to provide the information requested within 14 days after the date of sending the notice, depending on the level of the relevant shareholding (and unless the Rowan UK Board decides otherwise).
Alteration of Share Capital/Repurchase of Shares
Rowan UK may from time to time by ordinary resolution of its shareholders:
 
 
 
Subject to the Companies Act and to any rights the holders of any Ordinary Shares may have, Rowan UK may purchase any of its own shares of any class (including any redeemable shares, if the Rowan UK Board should decide to issue any) by way of "off market purchases" with the prior approval of shareholders by special resolution (i.e., 75 percent of votes cast). Such approval may last for up to five years from the date of the special resolution, and renewal of such approval for additional five year terms may be sought more frequently. Rowan UK is currently authorized to enter into an agreement with a certain investment bank pursuant to which it could effect repurchases of up to 10 percent per annum of the share capital outstanding as of the beginning of each calendar year (up to a maximum of 50 million Ordinary Shares) during the five year period commencing on April 30, 2012. Shares may only be repurchased out of distributable profits or the proceeds of a fresh issue of shares made for that purpose and, if a premium is paid, it must be paid out of distributable profits.
The New Articles provide that, if another class of shares is in issue with the right to vote to approve Ordinary Share repurchase agreements by way of "off market purchases," the holders of Ordinary Shares will not have the right to vote such shares with respect to such special resolution, and would not have the right to receive notice of or attend any meeting whose sole business is to approve such special resolution. As the Class B Ordinary Shares are held by a subsidiary of Rowan UK, they are not able to vote on special resolutions to approve such "off market purchases" of Ordinary Shares, but they would have such rights if they were subsequently transferred to a person other than a subsidiary of Rowan UK. Further, under the New Articles, the Rowan UK Board may allot and issue additional classes of shares with rights to vote on special resolutions to approve Ordinary Share repurchase agreements by way of "off market purchases." This potential disapplication of certain limited rights of the Ordinary Shares would expire at least every five years unless extended by a special resolution of the shareholders.
 
Transfer of Shares
The New Articles allow shareholders to transfer all or any of their certificated shares by instrument of transfer in writing in any usual form or in any other form which is permitted by the Companies Act and is approved by the Rowan UK Board. The instrument of transfer must be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and (in the case of a transfer of a share which is not fully paid) by or on behalf of the transferee and must be delivered to the registered office or any other place the Rowan UK Board decides.
The Rowan UK Board may refuse to register a transfer:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If the Rowan UK Board refuses to register a transfer of a share, it shall, within two months after the date on which the transfer was lodged with Rowan UK, send to the transferee notice of the refusal together with its reasons for refusal.
General Meetings and Notices
The notice of a general meeting shall be provided to the shareholders (other than any who, under the provisions of the New Articles or the terms of allotment or issue of shares, are not entitled to receive notice), to the Rowan UK Board and to the auditors.
Under English law, Rowan UK is required to hold an annual general meeting of shareholders within six months from the day following the end of its fiscal year and, subject to the foregoing, the meeting may be held at a time and place determined by the Rowan UK Board.
Mandatory Offers
Although Rowan UK will not be subject to the U.K. City Code on Takeovers and Mergers (the "Takeover Code") immediately following the Redomestication, the Rowan UK Board recognizes the importance of the mandatory offer provisions and certain other Takeover Code protections afforded to shareholders of U.K. public companies that are mandatorily subject to the Takeover Code. The New Articles include similar protections. These provisions are summarized below and seek to regulate certain acquisitions of interests in the shares of Rowan UK but do in some respects differ from the terms of the analogous protection under the Takeover Code. These provisions do not, however, provide all of the protections provided by the Takeover Code as the Rowan UK Board does not believe all provisions of the Takeover Code would be of benefit to the Rowan UK shareholders.
Under the applicable provisions of the New Articles, which are intended to be similar to Rule 9 of the Takeover Code (except as described below), a person must not:
(i) whether by a series of transactions over a period of time or not, acquire an interest in shares which (taken together with shares in which persons determined by the Rowan UK Board to be acting in concert with him or her are interested) carry 30 percent or more of the voting rights of Rowan UK; or
(ii) while he or she (together with persons determined by the Rowan UK Board to be acting in concert with him or her) is interested in shares which in aggregate carry not less than 30 percent but not more than 50 percent of the voting rights of Rowan UK, acquire, whether by himself or herself or with persons determined by the Rowan UK Board to be acting in concert with him or her, an interest in any other shares that (taken together with any interests in shares held by persons determined by the Rowan UK Board to be acting in concert with him or her), increases the percentage of shares carrying voting rights in which he or she is interested, except, in either case:
 
(1) with the consent of the Rowan UK Board, pursuant to an offer recommended by the Rowan UK Board or with the prior approval of the shareholders of Rowan UK (other than: (a) the acquirer and persons acting in concert with him or her; or (b) persons from whom the acquirer (together with persons determined by the Rowan UK Board to be acting in concert with him or her) has agreed to acquire shares or has otherwise obtained an irrevocable commitment in relation to the acquisition of shares by the acquirer or any persons determined by the Rowan UK Board to be acting in concert with him or her);
(2) where the acquisition is made in breach of either limit described in (i) or (ii) above as a result of a tender offer for all of the issued and outstanding shares of Rowan UK that is in cash (or accompanied by a cash alternative) and otherwise in accordance with the Takeover Code; or
(3) where the acquisition is made pursuant to a single transaction which causes a breach of either limit described in (1) or (2) above otherwise than as a result of a tender offer (for example, by an open market purchase) and the acquirer makes and implements a mandatory offer to all other shareholders of Rowan UK on the basis described below (provided that, subject to certain exceptions, no further acquisitions are made by the acquirer other than pursuant to such a mandatory offer).
Where a mandatory offer is required under the New Articles for the acquirer to avail itself of the exception in (3), such mandatory offer must be made and implemented in accordance with the rules applicable to mandatory offers under the Takeover Code (as if the Takeover Code applied to Rowan UK). In particular, it must be unconditional (other than as to acceptances), be in cash (or accompanied by a cash alternative) and be at the highest price paid by such person required to make the mandatory offer (or any other person acting in concert with such person) for any interest in shares in Rowan UK during the previous 12 months. Such a mandatory offer must be made within 7 days of breaching either limit described in (i) or (ii) above, which is a shorter time period than would normally apply under the analogous provisions of the Takeover Code.
The exemption from breaching either limit described in (i) or (ii) (as described in (2) above) is narrower than the analogous exemption in the Takeover Code because under the Takeover Code acquisitions pursuant to non-cash and partial offers may also be exempt. This potentially provides the Rowan UK Board with greater power to defend a hostile non-cash or partial tender offer than would otherwise be available under the Takeover Code.
As set out in Article 147 of the New Articles, the Rowan UK Board would have various powers (the exercise of which will be subject to their fiduciary duties) to enforce these provisions (including disenfranchisement (as regards voting and entitlement to distributions) and refusal to register the transfer of shares).
The Rowan UK Board has the full authority to determine the application of these provisions in the New Articles, including the deemed application of any relevant parts of the Takeover Code and such authority includes all the discretion that the UK Panel on Takeovers and Mergers would exercise if the Takeover Code applied to Rowan UK. The Rowan UK Board is not required to give any reason for any decision or determination it makes.
Squeeze-out & Sell-out Provisions
Squeeze-out
Under the Companies Act, if an offeror were to acquire or unconditionally contract to acquire 90 percent of the shares to which the offer relates and 90 percent of the voting rights attached to those shares, then, within three months of the last day on which its offer can be accepted, it could compulsorily acquire the remaining 10 percent. It would do so by sending a notice to outstanding shareholders telling them that it will compulsorily acquire their shares and then, six weeks later, it would execute a transfer of the issued shares in its favor and pay the consideration to Rowan UK, which would hold the consideration in trust for outstanding shareholders. The consideration offered to the shareholders whose shares are compulsorily acquired must, in general, be the same as the consideration that was available under the takeover offer.
 
Sell-out
The Companies Act would also provide Rowan UK's minority shareholders a right to be bought out in certain circumstances by an offeror who had made a takeover offer. If at any time before the end of the period within which a takeover offer could be accepted (as set forth in such offer), the offeror holds or has unconditionally contracted to acquire with or without any other shares in Rowan UK that the offeror has acquired or contracted to acquire (i) not less than 90 percent in value of all the voting shares in Rowan UK, and (ii) shares that carry not less than 90 percent of the voting rights in Rowan UK, then any holder of shares to which the offer related who had not accepted the offer could, by a written communication to the offeror, require the offeror to acquire those shares. The offeror would be required to provide any Rowan UK shareholder notice of his right to be bought out within one month of that right arising. Sell-out rights cannot be exercised after the end of the period of three months from the last date on which the offer can be accepted or, if later, three months from the date on which the notice is served on the Rowan UK shareholders notifying them of their sell-out rights. If a shareholder of Rowan UK exercises its rights, the offeror is bound to acquire those shares on the terms of the offer or on such other terms as may be agreed.
Liability of Rowan UK and its Directors and Officers
The New Articles provide that English courts have exclusive jurisdiction with respect to any suits brought by shareholders against Rowan UK or its directors.
Anti-takeover Provisions
Takeover offers and certain other transactions in respect of certain public companies are regulated by the Takeover Code, which is administered by the Takeover Panel, a body consisting of representatives of the City of London financial and professional institutions which oversees the conduct of takeovers. An English public limited company is potentially subject to the Takeover Code if, among other factors, its central place of management and control is within the U.K., the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man. The Takeover Panel will generally look to the residency of a company's directors to determine where it is centrally managed and controlled. The Takeover Panel has confirmed that, based upon Rowan UK's current and intended plans for its directors and management and, for purposes of the Takeover Code, Rowan UK will be considered to have its place of central management and control outside the U.K., the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man. Therefore, the Takeover Code would not apply to Rowan UK. It is possible that in the future circumstances could change that may cause the Takeover Code to apply to Rowan UK.
While the Merger is not intended to implement any anti-takeover provisions, the level of anti-takeover provisions with respect to Rowan UK differ from that with respect to Rowan Delaware by virtue of the differences between the Delaware General Corporation Law and the Companies Act, the differences between the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Rowan Delaware and the New Articles of Rowan UK and the differences between the rights of holders of shares of common stock of Rowan Delaware, the rights of holders of Ordinary Shares. The provisions summarized below do not include those provisions resulting from the Companies Act. The provisions of the New Articles summarized below may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing hostile takeovers, including those that might result in a premium being paid over the market price of Ordinary Shares, and discouraging, delaying or preventing changes in control or management of Rowan UK.
Declassified Board of Directors
With the adoption of the proposal to declassify the Rowan UK Board, the directors, including directors elected to a three-year term at the general meeting scheduled for 2012, and any replacement for any such director, will initially continue to serve the remainder of their elected three-year terms. The directors elected at the 2013 annual general meeting (and each annual general meeting thereafter) will be elected for one-year terms, and beginning with the 2015 annual general meeting, the entire Rowan UK Board will be elected annually. Under English law, shareholders have no cumulative voting rights. In addition, the New Articles incorporate similar provisions to those contained in Rowan Delaware's certificate of incorporation and bylaws, which regulate shareholders' ability to
 
nominate directors for election, subject to a five percent share ownership requirement as provided under the Companies Act. Although shareholders have the ability to remove a director without cause under English law, the current classification of the Rowan UK Board, the lack of cumulative voting and the limitations on shareholders' powers to nominate directors may have the effect of making it more difficult not only for any party to obtain control of Rowan UK by replacing the majority of the Rowan UK Board but also to force an immediate change in the composition of the Rowan UK Board. However, under the New Articles, if the shareholders remove the entire board, a shareholder may then convene a general meeting for the purpose of appointing directors.
Issuance of Additional Shares
As identified above, the Rowan UK Board is authorized (generally and unconditionally), for a period up to five years from April 30, 2012, to allot shares, or to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in Rowan UK, up to an aggregate nominal amount of $18,750,000 and to exclude preemptive rights in respect of such issuances for the same period of time. Such authority will continue for five years and thereafter it must be renewed by a vote of the shareholders, but Rowan UK may seek renewal for additional five year terms more frequently. The issuance of additional shares on various terms could adversely affect the holders of Ordinary Shares. The potential issuance of additional shares may discourage bids for Ordinary Shares at a premium over the market price, may adversely affect the market price of Ordinary Shares and may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of Rowan UK.
Shareholder Rights Plan
The Rowan UK Board has the necessary corporate authority, without further action of its shareholders for a period of five years, but subject to its statutory and fiduciary duties, to give effect to a shareholder rights plan and to fix the terms thereof. Under a shareholder rights plan, subscription rights to acquire newly issued shares in Rowan UK would be issued to all shareholders. The exercise of these subscription rights would not be dependent on Rowan UK having a need for new capital. The newly issued shares may be of any class and so may have rights equal to or in priority to the Ordinary Shares. After a person acquired beneficial ownership of a specified percentage (typically 20 percent) of the outstanding shares of Rowan UK, the rights would become exercisable by all holders thereof (other than the acquiring person and any affiliated or associated persons of it). Each such holder of a right would, upon the right becoming exercisable, have the right to receive upon exercise shares with a market value greater than the exercise price. As a result, such a plan could make it more difficult for another party to obtain control of Rowan UK by threatening to dilute a potential acquirer's ownership interest in the company under certain circumstances.
The Rowan UK Board may adopt a shareholder rights plan at any time. Rowan Delaware had the authority to adopt a shareholder rights plan under Delaware law. The Rowan UK Board will have the authority without reference to its shareholders, but subject to its statutory and fiduciary duties, to determine whether or not to redeem the subscription rights granted under a shareholder rights plan.
The protections described under "Providing shareholders with certain protections similar to those of the U.K. Takeover Code" and other provisions of the New Articles, as well as any adoption of a shareholder rights plan, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change in control. However, these provisions are intended to enhance shareholder value by discouraging hostile takeover tactics. For example, a shareholder rights plan could be used to improve the likelihood that (i) any process which may result in an acquisition or change of control is conducted in an orderly manner, including by providing additional time to negotiate with additional bidders or pursue alternative strategies; (ii) all shareholders are treated equally and fairly and in a similar manner; (iii) the success of the company is promoted for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole; (iv) the long term interests of the company, its employees, its shareholders and its business would be safeguarded; and/or (v) the company would not suffer serious economic harm. Moreover, the Rowan UK Board could use a shareholder rights plan to prevent the consummation of a hostile offer that the board believed undervalued the company or was otherwise not in the long term interests of shareholders.
It should be noted that these provisions potentially provide the Rowan UK Board with greater power to defend a hostile tender offer (or the acquisition of a significant interest in Rowan UK) than would otherwise be available under the Takeover Code and could have the effect of discouraging tender offers for Ordinary Shares and, as a consequence, may adversely affect the market price of the Ordinary Shares or inhibit fluctuations in the market price of Ordinary Shares that could otherwise result from actual or rumored takeover attempts.
 
Mandatory Offer Provisions
Although not intended to be an anti-takeover provision, the mandatory offer provisions could have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing tender offers that are not all-cash or are for less than all of the issued and outstanding shares unless they have the consent of the Rowan UK Board or the prior approval of the shareholders of Rowan UK, including tender offers that might result in a premium being paid over the market price of Ordinary Shares, as applicable, and discouraging, delaying or preventing changes in control or management of Rowan UK.
Holders of Ordinary Shares are strongly encouraged to hold their Ordinary Shares in book-entry form through the facilities of DTC or in a custodial account as described below. Any instrument of transfer of Ordinary Shares that is not held by DTC (i.e., shares not held within DTC by a DTC participant, such as by a broker or in a custodial account) will attract stamp duty at a rate of 0.5% of the consideration for the transfer. An unconditional agreement for such transfer, or a conditional agreement which subsequently becomes unconditional, will be liable for SDRT generally at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration for the transfer; but such liability will be cancelled if the agreement is completed by a duty stamped instrument of transfer within six years of the date of the agreement, or if the agreement was conditional, the date the agreement became unconditional. Where stamp duty is paid, any SDRT previously paid will be repaid on the making of an appropriate claim. Stamp duty and SDRT are normally paid by the purchaser.
Any such duty must be paid (and the relevant transfer document stamped) before the transfer can be registered in the books of Rowan UK. Any transfer for no consideration will not attract a stamp duty or SDRT charge. If those shares are redeposited into DTC, the special transfer arrangements will attract stamp duty at a rate of 1.5% of the value of the shares (rounded up the nearest 5). These special transfer arrangements will require the depositing party to pay 1.5% stamp duty. This will necessarily result in greater delay and expense as compared to transfers by way of book entry through DTC.
Accordingly, Rowan UK may put in place arrangements to require that Ordinary Shares held in certificated form cannot be transferred into the DTC system until the transferor of such shares has first delivered the shares to a depositary specified by Rowan UK so that stamp duty may be collected in connection with the initial delivery to the depository. Any such Ordinary Shares will be evidenced by a receipt issued by the depositary. Before the transfer can be registered in the books of Rowan UK, the transferor will also be required to pay funds into the depositary to settle the resultant liability to stamp duty, which will be charged at a rate of 1.5% of the value of the shares, rounded up to the nearest 5.
All Ordinary Shares deliverable in respect of shares of Rowan Delaware common stock held of record (other than such shares held of record by Cede & Co., as nominee for DTC) in conjunction with the Merger will not be delivered to the record holders, but rather will be delivered to a bank or trust company that is a participant of DTC (the "Custodian"). The Custodian will hold such Ordinary Shares for the benefit of such holders until instructions are received from the holder, as described below.
As a result, for former Rowan Delaware record holders who hold share certificates representing shares of Rowan Delaware common stock or uncertificated shares of Rowan Delaware common stock that are not deposited with DTC, Ordinary Shares will initially be delivered to Computershare Trust Company, N.A., or an affiliate thereof, as the Custodian for the exchange agent in the Merger on behalf of such former stockholders, and held in its account at DTC. Fees will not apply to the record holder if the record holder chooses to enroll in custody services offered by the Custodian. No fees will be payable if any such holder who wishes to transfer its Ordinary Shares from the custody of the Custodian to another bank or broker within the DTC system or to receive certificated Ordinary Shares will be charged any fees to do so. Fees will apply if the holder elects to sell securities via the Custodian.
Former record holders of Rowan Delaware common stock will also be provided with terms and conditions governing the custody facility. Holders who wish the Custodian to hold their Ordinary Shares will be expected to provide the Custodian with "know your customer" information and other customary documentation and agree to certain terms and conditions. Certain non-U.S. shareholders will not be eligible to hold their Ordinary Shares through the Custodian. Any holders who do not elect to transfer their Ordinary Shares to a bank or broker within DTC or enroll in the custody facility may elect to receive Ordinary Shares in certificated form. However, subsequent transfers of Ordinary Shares held in certificated form may attract stamp duty and SDRT. If such shares are to be subsequently deposited into DTC, the DTC participant wishing to make the deposit will be required to comply with special transfer procedures and will be required to pay an amount equal to 1.5% SDRT or stamp tax that would otherwise apply if the shares were transferred directly to DTC's nominee.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: May 4, 2012
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
COMPANY NO. 7805263
 
 
 
 
 
These Articles constitute the articles of association of the Company. No regulations contained in any statute or subordinate legislation, including the regulations contained in Schedule 3 to The Companies (Model Articles) Regulations 2008, apply to the Company.
 
 
"" means CA 2006 and every other enactment from time to time in force concerning companies (including any orders, regulations or other subordinate legislation made under CA 2006 or any such other enactment), so far as they apply to or affect the Company;
Acts
"" means a depositary or custodian or other person approved by the board who holds shares in the Company under arrangements where either the depositary or some other person issues American Depositary Receipts which evidence American Depositary Shares representing shares in the Company;
ADS Depositary
"" means the certificates issued by the ADS Depositary to evidence the American Depositary Shares;
American Depositary Receipts
"" means American Depositary Shares which represent shares in the Company and are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts;
American Depositary Shares
"" means the articles of association of the Company as altered from time to time;
Articles
"" or "" means the auditors from time to time of the Company or, in the case of joint auditors, any one of them;
auditors
external auditors
 
"" or "" or any correlative terms have the same meaning as in Regulation 13D (or any successor provision thereto) under the Exchange Act or any successor statute thereto;
beneficial ownership
beneficially owned
"" means the board of directors from time to time of the Company or the directors present at a duly convened meeting of the directors at which a quorum is present;
board
"" means a day (excluding Saturday) on which banks generally are open in the City of London and New York for the transaction of normal banking business;
business day
"" means the Companies Act 2006;
CA 2006
"" in relation to a share means a share which is represented by a paper certificate, i.e., not in electronic form;
certificated
"" means the holders for the time being of the allotted and issued Class A Ordinary Shares;
Class A Ordinary Shareholders
"" means the holders for the time being of the allotted and issued Class B Ordinary Shares;
Class B Ordinary Shareholders
"" means the class A ordinary shares of US$0.125 each in the share capital of the Company;
Class A Ordinary Shares
"" means the class B ordinary shares of 1.00 each in the share capital of the Company;
Class B Ordinary Shares
"" in relation to a period of notice means that period excluding the day when the notice is given or deemed to be given and the day for which it is given or on which it is to take effect;
clear days
"" means Rowan Companies plc;
Company
"" includes any body corporate (not being a corporation sole) or association of persons, whether or not a company within the meaning of the Acts;
company
"" means any depositary, clearing agency, custodian, nominee or similar entity approved by the board that holds legal title to shares for the purposes of facilitating beneficial ownership of such shares by other persons;
Depositary
"" means a director of the Company;
director
"" means any number or address used for the purposes of sending or receiving notices, documents or information by electronic means;
electronic address
"" has the same meaning as in section 1168 of CA 2006 and, for the avoidance of doubt, shall include a datafile or a telephonically communicated datagram or other paperless record that may be retained, retrieved and reviewed and that may be reproduced in paper form through an electronic process;
electronic form
"" has the same meaning as in section 1168 of CA 2006 and, for the avoidance of doubt, shall include via the Internet or by means of a telephonically communicated datagram;
electronic means
"" means, in relation to a share, entitled as a consequence of the death or bankruptcy of a member, or as a result of another event giving rise to a transmission of entitlement by operation of law;
entitled by transmission
"" means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time;
Exchange Act
 
"" in relation to the Company is determined as provided in section 390 of CA 2006;
financial year
"" and "" have the same meanings as in section 1168 of CA 2006;
hard copy form
hard copy
"" or "" in relation to shares means the member whose name is entered in the register as the holder of the shares;
holder
shareholder
"" or "" in relation to a director or proposed director means that such director or proposed director is (a) independent as defined by Rule 10A-3 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Exchange Act (or any successor rule thereto) and (b) independent as defined by the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Company is not subject to the listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange, as defined from time to time by resolution of the board;
independent
independence
"" means a member of the Company;
member
"" means the registered office of the Company;
office
"", "" and "" mean paid or credited as paid;
paid
paid up
paid-up
"" means, in respect of any share, the amount paid or credited as paid up on that share, including sums paid, or credited as paid, by way of premium;
paid-up amount
"" means disclosure in a press release reported by a national news service or in a document filed or furnished by the Company with or to the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder;
public announcement
"" means a recognised clearing house acting in relation to a recognised investment exchange or a nominee of a recognised clearing house acting in that way or of a recognised investment exchange which is designated for the purposes of section 778(2) of CA 2006;
recognised financial institution
"" means the register of members of the Company kept pursuant to section 113 of CA 2006 or the issuer register of members and Operator register of members maintained pursuant to Regulation 20 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations and, where the context requires, any register maintained by the Company or the Operator of persons holding any renounceable right of allotment of a share and cognate expressions shall be construed accordingly;
register
"" means the common seal of the Company and includes any official seal kept by the Company by virtue of sections 49 or 50 of CA 2006;
seal
"" means the secretary of the Company or any other person appointed by the board to perform the duties of the secretary of the Company, including a joint, assistant or deputy secretary;
secretary
"" means any share (of whatever class or denomination) in the share capital of the Company, and "" shall be construed accordingly;
share
shares
"" of any shareholder means (a) any beneficial owner of shares of the Company on whose behalf any proposal or nomination is made by such shareholder; (b) any affiliates or associates of such shareholder or any beneficial owner described in clause (a); or (c) each other person with whom any of the persons described in the foregoing clauses (a) and (b) has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether written or oral or formal or informal) to cooperate for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (except pursuant to a revocable proxy given to such person in response to a public proxy solicitation made generally by such person in accordance with the Exchange Act to all shareholders entitled to vote at any meeting) or disposing of any shares of the Company or to cooperate in obtaining, changing or influencing the control of the Company or to frustrate the successful outcome of an offer for the Company (except independent financial, legal and other advisors acting in the ordinary course of their respective businesses);
Shareholder Associated Person
 
"" means a properly authenticated dematerialised instruction and/or other instruction or notification sent by means of a relevant system and received by such participant in that system acting on behalf of the Company as the board may prescribe, in such form and subject to such terms and conditions as may from time to time be prescribed by the board (subject always to the facilities and requirements of the relevant system concerned);
uncertificated proxy instruction
"" means the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001;
Uncertificated Securities Regulations
"" means, in relation to a share, a share title to which is recorded in the register as being held in uncertificated form and title to which, by virtue of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations, may be transferred by means of a relevant system;
uncertificated
"" means Great Britain and Northern Ireland; and
United Kingdom
"" means the United States of America.
United States
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The liability of the members is limited to the amount, if any, unpaid on the shares in the Company held by them.
 
The Company may change its name by resolution of the board.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the provisions of the Acts and to any rights attached to any existing shares, any share may be allotted or issued with, or have attached to it, such powers, designations, preferences and relative participating, optional or other special rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions attaching thereto as the board may determine.
 
 
 
 
The following changes will also apply:
 
 
 
 
Subject to the provisions of the Acts and to any rights attached to any existing shares, shares may be issued which are to be redeemed or are liable to be redeemed at the option of the Company or the holder, and the board may determine the terms, conditions and manner of redemption of any shares so issued.
 
The Company may exercise all the powers conferred or permitted by the provisions of the Acts of paying commission or brokerage. Subject to the provisions of the Acts, any such commission or brokerage may be satisfied by the payment of cash or by the allotment of fully or partly paid shares or partly in one way and partly in the other.
 
Except as ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction or as required by law, no person shall be recognised by the Company as holding any share on trust and (except as otherwise provided by the Articles or by law) the Company shall not be bound by or recognise any interest in any share except an absolute right in the holder to the whole of the share, whether or not the Company shall have notice thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the provisions of the Acts, the Company may purchase its own shares (including any redeemable shares).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and any certificate issued in accordance with the requirements of the board shall, as against the Company, be evidence of the title of the person named in that certificate to the shares comprised in it.
prima facie
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The net proceeds of a sale effected under Article 18, after payment of the Company's costs of the sale, shall be applied in or towards satisfaction of the amount in respect of which the lien exists. The balance (if any) shall (on surrender to the Company for cancellation of any certificate for the shares sold, or the provision of an indemnity (and/or bond) as to any lost or destroyed certificate required by the board and subject to a like lien for any amounts not presently payable as existed on the shares before the sale) be paid to the member (or any person entitled to the shares by transmission or by operation of law) immediately before the sale.
 
The board may make calls on members in respect of amounts unpaid on the shares held by them respectively (whether in respect of the nominal value or a premium) and not, by the terms of issue thereof, made payable on a fixed date. Each member shall (on receiving at least 14 clear days' notice specifying when and where payment is to be made) pay to the Company, at the time and place specified, the amount called as required by the notice. A call may be made payable by installments and may, at any time before receipt by the Company of an amount due, be revoked or postponed in whole or in part as the board may decide. A call is deemed made at the time when the resolution of the board authorising the call is passed. A person on whom a call is made remains liable to pay the amount called despite the subsequent transfer of the share in respect of which the call is made. The joint holders of a share are jointly and severally liable to pay all calls in respect of that share.
 
The board may make arrangements on the allotment or, subject to the terms of the allotment, on the issue of shares for a difference between the allottees or holders in the amounts or times of payment of a call on their shares or both.
 
If a sum called is not paid on or before the date fixed for payment, the person from whom it is payable shall pay interest on the unpaid amount from the day the unpaid amount is due until the day it has been paid. The interest rate may be fixed by the terms of allotment or issue of the share or, if no rate is fixed, at such rate (not exceeding eight per cent. per annum) as the board may decide. The board may waive payment of the interest in whole or in part.
 
The board may, if it thinks fit, receive from a member all or part of the amounts uncalled and unpaid on shares held by him. A payment in advance of calls extinguishes to the extent of the payment the liability of the member on the shares in respect of which it is made. The Company may pay interest on the amount paid in advance, or on so much of it as from time to time exceeds the amount called on the shares in respect of which the payment in advance has been made, at such rate (not exceeding eight per cent. per annum) as the board may decide.
 
An amount (whether in respect of the nominal value or a premium) which by the terms of issue of a share becomes payable on allotment or issue or on a fixed date shall be deemed to be a call. In case of non-payment, the provisions of the Articles as to payment of interest, forfeiture or otherwise apply as if that amount has become payable by virtue of a call.
 
If a member fails to pay the whole of a call or an installment of a call by the date fixed for payment, the board may serve notice on the member or on a person entitled automatically by law to the share in respect of which the call was made demanding payment of the unpaid amount, on a date not less than 14 clear days from the date of the notice, together with any interest that may have accrued on it and all costs, charges and expenses incurred by the Company by reason of the non-payment. The notice shall state:
 
 
 
If the notice referred to in Article 25 is not complied with, any share in respect of which it is given may, at any time before the payment required by the notice (including interest, costs, charges and expenses) has been made, be forfeited by a resolution of the board. All dividends declared or other amounts due in respect of the forfeited share and not paid before the forfeiture shall also be forfeited.
 
When a share has been forfeited, the Company shall serve notice of the forfeiture on the person who was before forfeiture the holder of the share or the person entitled by transmission to the share. An entry of the fact and date of forfeiture shall be made in the register. No forfeiture shall be invalidated by any omission to give such notice or to make such entry in the register.
 
 
 
 
 
A person whose share has been forfeited ceases on forfeiture to be a member in respect thereof and if that share is in certificated form shall surrender to the Company for cancellation any certificate for the forfeited share. A person remains liable to pay all calls, interest, costs, charges and expenses owing in respect of such share at the time of forfeiture, with interest, from the time of forfeiture until payment, at such rate as may be fixed by the terms of allotment or issue of such share or, if no rate is fixed, at such rate (not exceeding eight per cent. per annum) as the board may decide. The board may if it thinks fit enforce payment without allowance for the value of such share at the time of forfeiture or for any consideration received on its disposal.
 
The board may accept the surrender of a share liable to be forfeited and in that case references in the Articles to forfeiture include surrender.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No fee shall be charged for registering the transfer of a share or the renunciation of a renounceable letter of allotment or other document or instructions relating to or affecting the title to a share or the right to transfer it or for making any other entry in the register.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Where a person becomes entitled by transmission to a share, the rights of the holder in relation to that share cease. The person entitled by transmission may, however, give a good discharge for dividends and other amounts payable in respect of the share and, subject to Articles 35 and 124, has the rights to which he would be entitled if he were the holder of the share. The person entitled by transmission is not, however, before he is registered as the holder of the share entitled in respect of it to receive notice of or exercise rights conferred by membership in relation to meetings of the Company or a separate meeting of the holders of a class of shares.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company shall be indebted to the member or other person entitled by transmission to the share for the net proceeds of sale and shall carry any amount received on sale to a separate account. The Company is deemed to be a debtor and not a trustee in respect of that amount for the member or other person. Any amount carried to the separate account may either be employed in the business of the Company or invested as the board may think fit. No interest is payable on that amount and the Company is not required to account for money earned on it.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company shall hold annual general meetings in accordance with the requirements of the Acts. Such meetings shall be convened by the board at such times and, subject to Article 59, places as it thinks fit.
 
The board, the chairman, the chief executive officer, the president or the secretary may convene a general meeting whenever and at any place it, he or she thinks fit. A general meeting may also be convened in accordance with Article 93.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the provisions of the Acts, the accidental omission to give notice of a meeting or any resolution intended to be moved at a meeting or any document relating to a meeting, or the non-receipt of any such notice, resolution or document by a person entitled to receive any such notice, resolution or document, shall not invalidate the proceedings at that meeting.
 
If the board, in its absolute discretion, considers that it is impractical, inadvisable or unreasonable for any reason to hold a general meeting at the time or place specified in the notice calling the general meeting, it may move and/or postpone the general meeting to another time and/or place. When a meeting is so moved and/or postponed, notice of the time and place of the moved and/or postponed meeting shall (if practical) be placed in the Wall Street Journal and the Financial Times or at least two other newspapers in national circulation, one in each of the United States and the United Kingdom, respectively. Notice of the business to be transacted at such moved and/or postponed meeting is not required. The board must take reasonable steps to ensure that members trying to attend the general meeting at the original time and/or place are informed of the new arrangements for the general meeting. Proxy forms can be delivered as specified in Article 63 until the time for holding the rearranged meeting. Any moved and/or postponed meeting may also be further moved and/or postponed under this Article.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(B) any option, warrant, convertible security, share appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the Company or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of the Company or any class or series of shares or other securities of the Company, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of shares of the Company or otherwise directly or indirectly owned beneficially by such shareholder or by any Shareholder Associated Person and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of any security or instrument of the Company, in each case, regardless of whether (x) such interest conveys any voting rights in such security to such shareholder or Shareholder Associated Person, (y) such interest is required to be, or is capable of being, settled through delivery of such security or instrument or (z) such person may have entered into other transactions to hedge the economic effect of such interest (any such interest in this clause (ii)(B) (a "");
Derivative Instrument
(C) the name of each person with whom such shareholder or Shareholder Associated Person has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether written or oral) (1) for the
 
purposes of acquiring, holding, voting (except pursuant to a revocable proxy given to such person in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made generally by such person to all holders of shares of the Company) or disposing of any shares of the Company, (2) to cooperate in obtaining, changing or influencing the control of the Company (except independent financial, legal and other advisors acting in the ordinary course of their respective businesses), (3) with the effect or intent of increasing or decreasing the voting power of, or that contemplates any person voting together with, any such shareholder or Shareholder Associated Person with respect to any shares of the Company or any business proposed by the shareholder or (4) otherwise in connection with any business proposed by a shareholder and a description of each such agreement, arrangement or understanding (any agreement, arrangement or understanding described in this clause (C) being a "");
Voting Agreement
(D) details of all other material interests of each shareholder or any Shareholder Associated Person in such proposal or any security of the Company (including, without limitation, any rights to dividends or performance-related fees based on any increase or decrease in the value of such security or Derivative Instruments or if such person directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security) (collectively, "");
Other Interests
(E) a list of all transactions by such shareholder and any Shareholder Associated Person involving any securities of the Company or any Derivative Instruments, Voting Agreements or Other Interests within the six-month period prior to the date of the notice;
(F) any proportionate interest in shares of the Company or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such shareholder or any Shareholder Associated Person is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner;
(G) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that such shareholder or any Shareholder Associated Person is entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Company or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation any such interests held by members of such shareholder's or any Shareholder Associated Person's immediate family sharing the same household (which information shall be supplemented by such shareholder and any Shareholder Associated Person not later than ten days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date);
(H) a description of all economic terms of all of the foregoing items, including all Derivative Instruments, Voting Agreements or Other Interests, and copies of all agreements and other documents (including, without limitation, master agreements, confirmations and all ancillary documents and the names and details of counterparties to, and brokers involved in, all such transactions) relating to each such item, including all Derivative Instruments, Voting Agreements or Other Interests;
(I) a representation that the shareholder is a holder of record of shares of the Company entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business; and
(J) a representation as to whether the shareholder or any Shareholder Associated Person intends, or is part of a group that intends, to (1) deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Company's shares required to approve or adopt the proposal or (2) otherwise solicit proxies or votes from shareholders in support of such proposal;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to Article 53.2 at an adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally notified.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If it appears to the chairman that the principal meeting place or any satellite meeting place is inadequate to accommodate all members entitled and wishing to attend, the meeting shall be duly constituted and its proceedings valid if the chairman is satisfied that adequate facilities are available to ensure that a member who is unable to be accommodated is able to:
 
 
 
 
The board may make any arrangement and impose any restriction it considers appropriate to ensure the security of a meeting including, without limitation, the searching of a person attending the meeting and the restriction of the items of personal property that may be taken into the meeting place. The board may authorise one or more persons, who may include a director, an officer or the secretary or the chairman of the meeting, to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
then the Class A Ordinary Shares shall carry no right to receive notice of, attend or vote at any general meeting of the Company for the purposes of approving a Class A Buyback Resolution.
 
 
 
 
Unless the board otherwise decides, no member is entitled in respect of a share held by him to be present or to vote, either in person or by proxy, at a general meeting or at a separate meeting of the holders of a class of shares or on a poll, or to exercise other rights conferred by membership in relation to the meeting or poll, if a call or other amount due and payable in respect of the share is unpaid. This restriction ceases on payment of the amount outstanding and all costs, charges and expenses incurred by the Company by reason of the non-payment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An appointment of proxy not received or delivered in accordance with this Article is invalid.
The board may at its discretion determine that, in calculating the periods mentioned in this Article 63.1, no account shall be taken of any part of any day that is not a working day.
 
 
A vote cast by a proxy is valid despite the previous termination of the authority of a person to act as a proxy unless notice of such termination shall have been received by the Company at the office, or at such other place or address at which an appointment of proxy may be duly received or delivered, not later than the time at which an appointment of proxy should have been received or delivered in order for it to be valid for use at the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the vote is cast or (in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting or adjourned meeting) for use in relation to the poll at which the vote is cast.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proxy. This may be shown by setting out the number of American Depositary Shares which each Appointed Proxy holds and stating that the Appointed Number of shares can be ascertained by multiplying the said number of American Depositary Shares by such number which for the time being is equal to the number of shares which any one American Depositary Share represents.
 
 
An Appointed Proxy, Sub Proxy or an Appointee may only attend a general meeting if he or she provides the Company with written evidence of his or her appointment and, in the case of Sub Proxies and Appointees, written evidence of their appointor(s) appointment, for that general meeting. Such written evidence shall be in a form agreed between the board and the ADS Depositary.
 
Subject to the Acts and providing the total number of shares registered in the name of the ADS Depositary is sufficient to include an Appointed Proxy's Appointed Number:
 
 
 
 
The Company may send to an Appointed Proxy at his or her address in the Proxy Register all or any of the documents which are sent to members.
 
 
 
 
and the Appointed Number of shares in respect of which a person is to be treated as Appointed Proxy for such purpose, the ADS Depositary may determine that the persons who are entitled are those persons entered in the Proxy Register at the close of business on a date (a "") determined by the ADS Depositary in consultation with the Company.
Record Date
 
 
 
 
Except as required by the Acts, no ADS Proxy will be recognised by the Company as holding any interest in shares upon any trust. Except for recognising the rights given in relation to general meetings by appointments made by ADS Proxies pursuant to Article 68, the Company is entitled to treat any person entered in the Proxy Register as an Appointed Proxy as the only person (other than the ADS Depositary) who has any interest in the shares in respect of which the Appointed Proxy has been appointed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No objection may be made to the qualification of any person voting at a general meeting or to the counting of, or failure to count, any vote, except at the meeting, adjourned meeting or poll at which the vote objected to is tendered or at which the error occurs. An objection properly made shall be referred to the chairman whose decision on such matter shall be final and conclusive.
 
No amendment to a resolution duly proposed as a special resolution (other than an amendment to correct a patent error) may be considered or voted on. No amendment to a resolution duly proposed as an ordinary resolution (other than an amendment to correct a patent error) may be considered or voted on unless either:
 
 
If an amendment proposed to a resolution under consideration is ruled out of order by the chairman the proceedings on the substantive resolution are not invalidated by an error in his ruling.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A director is not required to hold any shares in the capital of the Company.
 
At a general meeting a motion for the appointment of two or more persons as directors by a single resolution shall not be made unless an ordinary resolution that it should be so made has first been agreed to by the meeting without any vote being given against it, and for the purposes of this Article a motion for approving a person's appointment or for nominating a person for appointment shall be treated as a motion for his or her appointment. A resolution moved in contravention of this Article is void (whether or not its being so moved was objected to at the time).
 
 
 
 
 
with each class to hold office until its successors are duly elected.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No appointment of an alternate director who is not already a director shall be effective until his or her consent to act as a director in the form prescribed by the provisions of the Acts has been received at the office or tabled at a meeting of the board.
 
 
A director may by notice delivered to the secretary at the office or tabled at a meeting of the board revoke the appointment of his or her alternate director and, subject to the provisions of Article 83, appoint another person in his or her place. If a director ceases to hold the office of director or if he or she dies, the appointment of his or her alternate director automatically ceases. If a director retires but is reappointed or deemed reappointed at the meeting at which his or her retirement takes effect, a valid appointment of an alternate director which was in force immediately before his or her retirement continues to operate after his or her reappointment as if he or she had not retired. The appointment of an alternate director ceases on the happening of an event which, if he or she were a director otherwise appointed, would cause him or her to vacate office.
 
An alternate director shall, if he or she gives the Company an address at which notices may be served on him or her or an address at which notices may be served on him or her by electronic means, be entitled to receive notice of all meetings of the board and all committees of the board of which his or her appointor is a member and, in the absence from those meetings of his appointor, to attend and vote at the meetings and to exercise all the powers, rights, duties and authorities of his or her appointor. A director acting as alternate director has a separate vote at meetings of the board and committees of the board for each director for whom he or she acts as alternate director but he or she counts as only one for the purpose of determining whether a quorum is present.
 
A person acting as an alternate director shall be an officer of the Company, shall alone be responsible to the Company for his or her acts and defaults, and shall not be deemed to be the agent of his appointor.
 
 
 
 
 
 
An alternate director is not entitled to compensation from the Company for his services as an alternate director. The compensation payable to an alternate director is payable out of the compensation payable to his or her appointor and consists of such portion (if any) of the compensation as he or she agrees with his or her appointor. The Company shall, however, repay to an alternate director expenses incurred by him or her in the performance of his or her duties if the Company would have been required to repay the expenses to him or her under Article 87 had he or she been a director.
 
 
(a) the Company;
(b) a company which is or was a subsidiary undertaking of the Company;
(c) a company which is or was allied to or associated with the Company or a subsidiary undertaking of the Company; or
(d) a predecessor in business of the Company or of a subsidiary undertaking of the Company,
(or, in each case, for any member of his or her family, including a spouse or former spouse, a civil partner or a former civil partner, or a person who is or was dependent on him or her). For this purpose the board may establish, maintain, subscribe and contribute to any scheme, trust or fund and pay premiums. The board may arrange for this to be done by the Company alone or in conjunction with another person.
 
 
The salary or other remuneration of a director appointed to hold employment or executive office in accordance with the Articles may be a fixed sum of money, or wholly or in part governed by business done or profits made, or as otherwise decided by the board, and may be in addition to or instead of compensation payable to him or her for his or her services as director pursuant to the Articles.
 
Subject to the provisions of the Acts, the board may exercise all the powers of the Company to purchase and maintain insurance for the benefit of a person who is or was a director, alternate director or officer of the Company or of any associated company against any liability attaching to him or her in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust or any other liability which may lawfully be insured against by the Company.
 
Subject to the provisions of the Acts and the Articles and to directions given by special resolution of the Company, the business and affairs of the Company shall be managed by the board which may exercise all the powers of the Company whether relating to the management of the business or not. No alteration of the Articles and no direction given by the Company shall invalidate a prior act of the board which would have been valid if the alteration had not been made or the direction had not been given. The provisions of the Articles giving specific powers to the board do not limit the general powers given by this Article.
 
If the number of directors is less than the minimum prescribed by the Articles, the remaining director or directors may act only for the purposes of appointing an additional director or directors to make up that minimum or convening a general meeting of the Company for the purpose of making such appointment. If no director or directors is or are able or willing to act, notwithstanding any other provisions of the Articles, the chief executive officer, the secretary or a member may convene a general meeting for the purpose of appointing directors. An additional director appointed in this way holds office (subject to the Articles) only until the dissolution of the next annual general meeting after his or her appointment unless he or she is reappointed during the meeting.
 
The board may delegate to a director holding executive office any of its powers, authorities and discretions for such time and on such terms and conditions as it thinks fit. In particular, without limitation, the board may grant the power to sub-delegate, and may retain or exclude the right of the board to exercise the delegated powers, authorities or discretions collaterally with the director. The board may at any time revoke the delegation or alter its terms and conditions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The president, executive vice president, senior vice president, or vice president, in the order of their seniority, unless otherwise determined by the board, shall, in the event of absence or disability of the chief executive officer or the president, as the case may be, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the absent or disabled chief executive officer or president. They shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the board may from time to time prescribe during the period of the absence or disability.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
provided further that, unless the resolution or the Articles expressly so provide, no such committee shall have the power or authority to declare a dividend or to authorise the allotment or issue of shares.
Such committee or committees shall have such name or names as may be determined from time to time by resolution of the board.
 
The board may by power of attorney or otherwise appoint a person to be the agent of the Company and may delegate to that person any of its powers, authorities and discretions for such purposes, for such time and on such terms and conditions (including as to remuneration) as it thinks fit. In particular, without limitation, the board may grant the power to sub-delegate and may retain or exclude the right of the board to exercise the delegated powers, authorities or discretions collaterally with the agent. The board may at any time revoke or alter the terms and conditions of the appointment or delegation with or without cause.
 
The board may exercise or cause to be exercised the voting powers conferred by shares in the capital of another company held or owned by the Company, or a power of appointment to be exercised by the Company, in any manner it thinks fit (including the exercise of the voting power or power of appointment in favour of the appointment of a director as an officer or employee of that company or in favour of the payment of remuneration to the officers or employees of that company).
 
The board may exercise the powers conferred on the Company by the Acts to make provision for the benefit of a person employed or formerly employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries (other than a director or former director or alternate or shadow director) in connection with the cessation or the transfer to a person of the whole or part of the undertaking of the Company or the subsidiary.
 
Subject to the provisions of the Acts, the board may exercise the powers conferred on the Company with regard to the keeping of an overseas branch, local or other register and may make and vary regulations as it thinks fit concerning the keeping of a register.
 
The Company shall keep a register of charges in accordance with the provisions of the Acts and the fee to be paid by a person other than a creditor or member for each inspection of the register of charges is the maximum sum prescribed by the provisions of the Acts or, failing which, decided by the board.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and the general duties which any director owes to the Company under CA 2006 will not be infringed by anything done (or omitted to be done) in accordance with the provisions of this Article 104.7.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For this purpose a director is treated as being aware of matters of which he ought reasonably to be aware.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The board may appoint one of its body as chairman to preside at every board meeting at which he or she is present and one or more deputy chairman or chairmen and decide the period for which he or she is or they are to hold office (and may at any time remove him or them from office). If no chairman or deputy chairman is elected, or if at a meeting neither the chairman nor a deputy chairman is present within five minutes of the time fixed for the start of the meeting, the directors and alternate directors (in the absence of their appointors) present shall choose one of their number to be chairman. If two or more deputy chairmen are present, the senior of them shall act as chairman, seniority being determined by length of office since their last appointment or reappointment or deemed reappointment. As between two or more who have held office for an equal length of time, the deputy chairman to act as chairman shall be decided by those directors and alternate directors (in the absence of their appointors) present. A chairman or deputy chairman may hold executive office or employment with the Company.
 
Questions arising at a meeting of the board are determined by a majority of votes.
 
A director or his or her alternate director may participate in a meeting of the board or a committee of the board through the medium of conference telephone, video teleconference or similar form of communication equipment if all persons participating in the meeting are able to hear and speak to each other throughout the meeting. A person participating in this way is deemed to be present in person at the meeting and is counted in a quorum and entitled to vote. Subject to the provisions of the Acts, all business transacted in this way by the board or a committee of the board is for the purposes of the Articles deemed to be validly and effectively transacted at a meeting of the board or a committee of the board although fewer than two directors or alternate directors are physically present at the same place. The meeting is deemed to take place where the largest group of those participating is assembled or, if there is no such group, where the chairman of the meeting then is.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All acts done by a meeting of the board, or of a committee of the board, or by a person acting as a director, alternate director or member of a committee are, notwithstanding that it is afterwards discovered that there was a defect in the appointment of a person or persons acting, or that they or any of them were or was disqualified from holding office or not entitled to vote, or had in any way vacated their or his or her office, as valid as if every such person had been duly appointed, and was duly qualified and had continued to be a director, alternate director or member of a committee and entitled to vote.
 
 
 
 
 
 
A director or the secretary or another person appointed by the board for the purpose may authenticate documents affecting the constitution of the Company (including, without limitation the Articles) and resolutions passed by the Company or holders of a class of shares or the board or a committee of the board and books, records, documents and accounts relating to the business of the Company, and certify copies or extracts as true copies or extracts; and where any books, records, documents or accounts are elsewhere than the office, the local manager or other officer of the Company having their custody shall be deemed to be a person appointed by the board for this purpose. A document purporting to be a copy of a resolution, or an extract from the minutes of a meeting, of the Company, the board or any committee which is so certified shall be conclusive evidence in favour of all persons dealing with the Company that such resolution has been duly passed or, as the case may be, that any minute so extracted is a true and accurate record of the proceedings at a duly constituted meeting.
 
The secretary shall provide for the safe custody of every seal.
 
 
 
 
Subject to the provisions of the Acts, the board may, before paying any dividend (whether preferential or otherwise), carry to reserve out of the profits of the Company such sums as it thinks fit. All sums standing to reserve may be applied from time to time, at the discretion of the board, for any purpose to which the profits of the Company may properly be applied, and pending such application may, at the like discretion, either be employed in the business of the Company or be invested in such investments as the board thinks fit. The board may divide the reserve into such special reserves as it thinks fit, and may consolidate into one fund any special funds or any parts of any special funds into which the reserve may have been divided as it thinks fit. Any sum which the board may carry to reserve out of the unrealised profits of the Company shall not be mixed with any reserve to which profits available for distribution have been carried. The board may also, without placing the same to reserve, carry forward any profits which it may think prudent not to distribute.
 
Subject to the provisions of the Acts, if the board considers that the financial position of the Company justifies such payments, it can pay interim, final or other dividends on any class of shares of any amounts and on any dates and for any periods which it decides.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any unclaimed dividend, interest or other amount payable by the Company in respect of a share may be invested or otherwise made use of by the board for the benefit of the Company until claimed. A dividend unclaimed for a period of 12 years from the date it was declared or became due for payment is forfeited and ceases to remain owing by the Company. The payment of an unclaimed dividend, interest or other amount payable by the Company in respect of a share into a separate account does not constitute the Company a trustee in respect of it.
 
If, in respect of a dividend or other amount payable in respect of a share, on any one occasion:
 
 
and reasonable enquiries have failed to establish another address or account of the person entitled to the payment, the Company is not obliged to send or transfer a dividend or other amount payable in respect of that share to that person until he notifies the Company of an address or account to be used for that purpose. If the cheque, warrant or money order is returned undelivered or left uncashed or transfer not accepted on two consecutive occasions, the Company may exercise this power without making any such enquiries.
 
Without prejudice to Article 76 and Article 147, the board may direct that payment of a dividend may be satisfied wholly or in part by the distribution of specific assets and in particular of paid-up shares or debentures of another company. Where a difficulty arises in connection with the distribution, the board may settle it as it thinks fit and in particular, without limitation, may:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the provisions of the Acts and Articles 130 and 131, the board may:
 
 
 
 
and allot the shares or debentures, credited as fully paid, to the members (or as they may direct) in those proportions, or partly in one way and partly in the other, but the share premium account, the capital redemption reserve and profits which are not available for distribution may, for the purposes of this Article, only be applied in paying up unissued shares to be allotted to members credited as fully paid;
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Articles, but subject to the provisions of the Acts and rights attached to shares, the board may fix any date (which shall not be more than 60 days before the date on which a dividend, distribution, allotment or issue is declared, made or paid) as the record date for a dividend, distribution, allotment or issue.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
not less than 21 clear days before the date of the meeting at which copies of those documents are to be laid in accordance with the Acts.
This Article does not require copies of the documents to which it applies to be sent to:
 
 
 
 
 
The audit committee of the board shall have exclusive authority and responsibility to recommend, approve the compensation of, and oversee the Company's external audit firm. The external auditor shall be recommended by the audit committee on an annual basis, and such auditor recommendation shall be submitted for shareholder approval at each annual general meeting.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A person who becomes entitled to a share by transmission, transfer or otherwise is bound by a notice in respect of that share (other than a notice served by the Company under section 793 of CA 2006) which, before his name is entered in the register, has been properly served on a person from whom he derives his title.
 
Where a person is entitled by transmission to a share, any notice, document or information may be given, sent or supplied by the Company to that person as if he were the holder of a share by sending or delivering it in any manner authorised by the Articles for the giving of notice to a member addressed to that person by name, or by the title of representative of the deceased or trustee of the bankrupt member (or by similar designation), at the address supplied for that purpose by the person claiming to be entitled by transmission. Until such an address has been supplied, any notice, document or information may be given, sent or supplied in any manner in which it might have been given if the death or bankruptcy or other event had not occurred. The giving of notice in accordance with this Article is sufficient notice to any other person interested in the share.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the provisions of the Articles, on a voluntary winding up of the Company the liquidator may, on obtaining any sanction required by law, divide among the members in kind the whole or any part of the assets of the Company, whether or not the assets consist of property of one kind or of different kinds, and vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon such trusts for the benefit of the members as he, with the like sanction, shall determine. For this purpose the liquidator may set the value he deems fair on a class or classes of property, and may determine on the basis of that valuation and in accordance with the then existing rights of members how the division is to be carried out between members or classes of members. The liquidator may not, however, distribute to a member without his consent an asset to which there is attached a liability or potential liability for the owner.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(each of (i) and (ii) a "").
Limit
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and every other enactment from time to time in force concerning companies (including any orders, regulations or other subordinate legislation made under the Companies Act 2006 or any such other enactment), so far as they apply to or affect Rowan Companies plc (the "Company"), the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") may exercise any power of the Company to establish a shareholders rights plan (the "Rights Plan"). The Rights Plan may be in such form as the Board shall in its absolute discretion decide and may in particular (but without restriction or limitation) include such terms as are described in this Summary of Example Terms.
Pursuant to the Rights Plan, the Board would declare and issue one Share Purchase Right (a "Right") for each outstanding Class A Ordinary Share, nominal value US$0.125 per share, of the Company (the "Ordinary Shares"). Each Right would entitle the registered holder, upon payment to the Company of the price per Right specified in the Rights Plan, to have delivered to such holder Class A Ordinary Shares, American Depositary Shares or shares of any other class or series as specified in the Rights Plan (a "Share"), subject to adjustment.
Until the earlier to occur of (i) 10 days following a public announcement that a person or group of affiliated or associated persons (a "group") has acquired beneficial ownership of 20% or more of the outstanding Ordinary Shares and American Depositary Shares (without duplication) (such person or group, an "Acquiring Person") or (ii) 10 business days (or such later date as may be determined by action of the Board prior to such time as any person or group were to become an Acquiring Person) following the commencement of, or announcement of an intention to make, a takeover offer by a person or group the consummation of which would result in the beneficial ownership of 20% or more of the outstanding Ordinary Shares and American Depositary Shares (without duplication) being acquired by that person or group (the earlier of such dates being called the "Distribution Date"), each Right would be associated with an individual American Depositary Share or Ordinary Share, as applicable, and the Rights would be transferred with and only with the Ordinary Shares or American Depositary Shares, as applicable.
After the Distribution Date, separate certificates evidencing the Rights ("Right Certificates") would be mailed to (or credited to the account of) holders of record of the Ordinary Shares and American Depositary Shares (without duplication) as of the close of business on the Distribution Date. Such separate Right Certificates alone would then evidence the Rights, and the Rights would then be separately transferable.
The Rights would not be exercisable until the Distribution Date. The Rights would expire on a date to be specified in the Rights Plan, unless the Rights were earlier redeemed or exchanged by the Company.
After the Distribution Date, each holder of a Right, other than Rights held by or on behalf of any Acquiring Person (which would thereupon become void), would thereafter have the right to receive upon exercise of a Right that number of Shares having a market value of two times the exercise price for the Right.
In the event that, after a person or group were to become an Acquiring Person, the Company were to be acquired by a third party, proper provisions would be made so that each holder of a Right (other than Rights held by or on behalf of an Acquiring Person, which would have become void) would thereafter have the right to receive upon the exercise of a Right that number of shares of such third party (or its parent) that at the time of such acquisition would have a market value of two times the exercise price of the Right.
At any time after any person or group were to become an Acquiring Person and prior to the acquisition by such Acquiring Person of 50% or more of the outstanding Ordinary Shares and American Depositary Shares (without duplication), the Board would have the authority to exchange or cause to be exchanged the Rights (other than Rights held by or on behalf of such Acquiring Person, which would have become void), in whole or in part, for Shares at an exchange ratio of one Share per Right, subject to the receipt of any consideration required by applicable law to be received by the Company in respect of the same.
 
At any time before any person or group were to become an Acquiring Person, the Board would have the authority to redeem the Rights in whole, but not in part, at a price per Right to be specified in the Rights Plan (the "Redemption Price").
Prior to the time that any person or group were to become an Acquiring Person, the Board would have the authority, except with respect to the Redemption Price, to amend the Rights Plan in any manner, subject to applicable law and any restrictions set forth in the Articles of Association of the Company. After the time that any person or group were to become an Acquiring Person, the Board would have the authority, except with respect to the Redemption Price, to amend the Rights Plan in any manner that would not adversely affect the interests of holders of the Rights (other than Rights held by or on behalf of any Acquiring Person, which would have become void).
Prior to the exercise of a Right, a Right would not entitle the holder thereof to any rights as an American Depositary Share holder or shareholder of the Company, including, without limitation, the right to vote or to receive dividends in respect of such Right.
 

Exhibit 4.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Third Supplemental Indenture
 
 
 
Third Supplemental Indenture
 
, dated as of May 4, 2012 (this "Supplemental Indenture"), by and among , a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "Company"), , a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales (the "Parent"), and , a nationally chartered banking association, as trustee under the Indenture referred to below (in such capacity, the "Trustee").
THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
ROWAN COMPANIES, INC.
ROWAN COMPANIES PLC
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee have heretofore entered into an Indenture dated as of July 21, 2009 (the "Original Indenture"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture thereto, dated as of July 21, 2009 (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), and the Second Supplemental Indenture thereto, dated as of August 30, 2010 (the "Second Supplemental Indenture") (the Original Indenture, as supplemented from time to time, including without limitation pursuant to the First Supplemental Indenture, the Second Supplemental Indenture and this Supplemental Indenture, being referred to herein as the "Indenture");
WHEREAS, pursuant to the First Supplemental Indenture, the Company issued, and the Trustee authenticated and delivered, the Company's 7.875% Senior Notes due 2019 (the "7.875% Notes") and, pursuant to the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Company issued, and the Trustee authenticated and delivered, the Company's 5% Senior Notes due 2017 (together with the 7.875% Notes, the "Notes");
WHEREAS, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization, dated as of February 27, 2012, between the Company and Rowan Mergeco, LLC, a newly formed Delaware limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of the Company ("Rowan Mergeco"), Rowan Mergeco has, contemporaneously with the effectiveness of this Supplemental Indenture, consummated a merger (the "merger") with and into the Company, with the Company surviving the merger and becoming an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of the Parent; and
WHEREAS, in connection with the merger, the Company and the Parent have determined that it will be in the best interests of and beneficial to the Company and the Parent for the Parent to guarantee the Notes in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, including Article Fourteen thereof;
WHEREAS, the Company and the Parent desire to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture in order to provide for such guarantee;
WHEREAS, Section 9.1(d) of the Indenture expressly permits the Company and the Trustee to amend or supplement the Indenture or the Securities Guarantees without the consent of any Holder of a Security in order to add a Securities Guarantee or cause any Person to become a Guarantor; and
WHEREAS, for the purposes hereinabove recited, and pursuant to due corporate action, each of the Company and the Parent has duly determined to execute and deliver to the Trustee this Supplemental Indenture, and all conditions and requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture a valid, legal and binding instrument in accordance with its terms have been satisfied, and the execution and delivery hereof have been in all respects duly authorized.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, agreements and obligations set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Notes, as follows:
SECTION 1.01.
Relation to Indenture.
This Supplemental Indenture constitutes an integral part of the Indenture.
SECTION 1.02.
Definitions.
For all purposes of this Supplemental Indenture, capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned thereto in the Indenture.
 
Third Supplemental Indenture
 
SECTION 1.03.
General References.
Unless otherwise specified or unless the context otherwise requires, (i) all references in this Supplemental Indenture to Articles and Sections refer to the corresponding Articles and Sections of this Supplemental Indenture and (ii) the terms "," "," "" and any other word of similar import refer to this Supplemental Indenture.
herein
hereof
hereunder
The Indenture is hereby amended as set forth below in this Article Two; , , that the amendments effected hereby shall apply to the Notes only and not to any other series of Securities issued under the Indenture, and such amendments are being effected solely for the benefit of the Notes and the Holders thereof.
provided
however
SECTION 2.01.
Defined Terms.
With respect solely to the Notes, and not to any other series of Securities, Section 1.1 of the Indenture is hereby amended by inserting the following defined term in its appropriate alphabetical position:
"Parent" means Rowan Companies plc, a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales.
SECTION 2.02.
Notices, Etc., to Trustee, Company and the Guarantor.
With respect solely to the Notes and not to any other series of Securities, Section 1.6 of the Indenture is hereby amended by replacing the current subsection (a) with the following:
(a) Any notice or communication by the Company, the Guarantor or the Trustee to the others is duly given if in writing and delivered in person or mailed by first class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), telecopier or overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery, to the others' address:
If to the Company and/or the Guarantor:
Rowan Companies, Inc.
2800 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 5450
Houston, Texas 77056
Telephone: (713) 621-7800
Facsimile: (713) 960-7685
Attention: Chief Financial Officer
and
Rowan Companies plc
Rowan House Peterseat Drive
Altens Industrial Estate
Aberdeen, AB12 3HT
Scotland
Telephone: +44 1224 216550
Facsimile: +44 208 4290982
 
Third Supplemental Indenture
 
Attention: Chief Financial Officer
with a copy to:
Andrews Kurth LLP
600 Travis, Suite 4200
Houston, Texas 77002
Telephone: (713) 220-4200
Facsimile: (713) 220-4285
Attention: Robert V. Jewell
If to the Trustee:
U.S. Bank National Association
5555 San Felipe, Suite 1150
Houston, Texas 77056
Telephone: (713) 235-9208
Facsimile: (713) 235-9213
Attention: Corporate Trust Services
SECTION 2.03.
Parent Guarantee.
Article Fourteen of the Indenture shall apply to the Notes. The Parent hereby agrees to be bound by a Securities Guarantee with respect to the Notes and that the Parent shall be a Guarantor of each series of the Notes in accordance with Article Fourteen of the Indenture; that the Securities Guarantee granted hereby shall not apply to any obligations under any series of Securities other than the Notes. The Parent hereby agrees that its Securities Guarantee of the Notes will remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to endorse on each Note a notation of such Securities Guarantee.
provided, however,
With respect solely to the Notes and not to any other series of Securities, Article Fourteen of the Original Indenture is hereby amended by adding the following Section 14.4 thereto:
Section 14.4 .
Releases
The Parent will be released and relieved of any obligations under its Securities Guarantee of the Notes immediately upon Legal Defeasance in accordance with Article Thirteen or satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture in accordance with Article Four. The Parent will also be released and relieved of any obligations under its Securities Guarantee of the Notes immediately upon the merger of the Parent with and into the Company.
SECTION 3.01.
Certain Trustee Matters.
The recitals contained herein shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness.
The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or the Notes or the proper authorization or the due execution hereof or thereof by the Company or the Parent.
Except as expressly set forth herein, nothing in this Supplemental Indenture shall alter the duties, rights or obligations of the Trustee set forth in the Indenture.
 
Third Supplemental Indenture
 
The Trustee makes no representation or warranty as to the validity or sufficiency of the information contained in the prospectus supplement related to the Notes, except such information which specifically pertains to the Trustee itself, or any information incorporated therein by reference.
SECTION 3.02.
Continued Effect.
Except as expressly supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, the Indenture shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with the provisions thereof, and the Indenture is in all respects hereby ratified and confirmed. This Supplemental Indenture and all its provisions shall be deemed a part of the Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
SECTION 3.03.
Governing Law.
This Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
SECTION 3.04.
Counterparts.
This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
Third Supplemental Indenture
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and delivered, all as of the date first written above.
 
 
Third Supplemental Indenture
 

Exhibit 4.5
 
CLASS A ORDINARY SHARES
NOMINAL VALUE $0.125
Certificate Number
ROWAN COMPANIES PLC
INCORPORATED UNDER THE LAWS OF ENGLAND AND WALES WITH COMPANY NUMBER 07805263
CLASS A ORDINARY SHARES
THIS CERTIFICATE IS TRANSFERABLE UNDER THE COMPANY'S ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION AND IN CANTON, MA AND NEW YORK, NY
Shares
THIS CERTIFIES THAT CUSIP G7665A 10 1 SEE REVERSE FOR CERTAIN DEFINITIONS is the owner of FULLY PAID AND NON-ASSESSABLE CLASS A ORDINARY SHARES OF
Rowan Companies plc transferable in accordance with, and subject to, the Company's articles of association on the books of the Company in person or by duly authorized attorney upon surrender of this certificate properly endorsed. This certificate is not valid unless countersigned by the Transfer Agent and registered by the Registrar.
Witness the facsimile signatures of its duly authorized officers.
President and Chief Executive Officer
DATED
COUNTERSIGNED AND REGISTERED:
COMPUTERSHARE TRUST COMPANY, N.A.
TRANSFER AGENT AND REGISTRAR,
By
AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE
1234567
A FULL STATEMENT OF THE POWERS, DESIGNATIONS, PREFERENCES AND RELATIVE, PARTICIPATING, OPTIONAL OR OTHER SPECIAL RIGHTS OF EACH CLASS OF SHARES OF THE COMPANY OR SERIES THEREOF AND THE QUALIFICATIONS, LIMITATIONS OR RESTRICTIONS OF SUCH PREFERENCES AND/OR RIGHTS WILL BE FURNISHED BY THE COMPANY WITHOUT CHARGE TO ANY SHAREHOLDER WHO SO REQUESTS UPON APPLICATION TO THE TRANSFER AGENT NAMED ON THE FACE HEREOF OR TO THE OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF THE COMPANY. THE TRANSFER OF SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE MAY BE SUBJECT TO THE UNITED KINGDOM'S HM REVENUE AND CUSTOMS STAMP DUTY. PLEASE CONTACT THE TRANSFER AGENT FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
For US purposes the following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this certificate, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
TEN COM - as tenants in common
TEN ENT - as tenants by the entireties
JT TEN - as joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY OR OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
For value received, hereby sell, assign and transfer unto (PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS, INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE, OF ASSIGNEE)
Shares of the capital stock represented by the within Certificate, and do hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint
Attorney to transfer the said stock on the books of the within-named Corporation with full power of substitution in the premises.
Dated:             20        
Signature:                        
Signature:                         
Notice: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the certificate, in every particular, without alteration or enlargement, or any change whatever.
Signature(s) Guaranteed: Medallion Guarantee Stamp
THE SIGNATURE(S) SHOULD BE GUARANTEED BY AN ELIGIBLE GUARANTOR INSTITUTION (Banks, Stockbrokers, Savings and Loan Associations and Credit Unions) WITH MEMBERSHIP IN AN APPROVED SIGNATURE GUARANTEE MEDALLION PROGRAM, PURSUANT TO S.E.C. RULE 17Ad-15.
1234567

Exhibit 10.1
Execution Version
This AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO CREDIT AGREEMENT (this ""), dated effective as of May 4, 2012 (the ""), is by and among Rowan Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), Rowan Companies plc, an English public limited company (the "", and together with the Existing Borrower, each a "" and collectively, the ""), the Lenders party hereto, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as an issuing lender, as swing line lender, and as administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the "").
Amendment
Effective Date
Existing Borrower
Parent
Borrower
Borrowers
Administrative Agent
WHEREAS, the Existing Borrower, the lenders from time to time party thereto (the ""), and the Administrative Agent are parties to the Credit Agreement dated as of September 16, 2010, as amended by that certain Amendment No. 1 thereto dated as of June 30, 2011 (as so amended, and as may be further amended, supplemented or modified from to time to time, the "", the capitalized terms of which are used herein unless otherwise defined herein);
Lenders
Credit Agreement
WHEREAS, prior to or simultaneously with the effectiveness of this Amendment, (a) a merger will be consummated whereby Rowan Mergeco, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Existing Borrower, will merge with and into the Existing Borrower, with the Existing Borrower being the surviving corporation and becoming an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Parent and (b) each outstanding Equity Interest of the Existing Borrower will be converted into the right to receive a share representing one Equity Interest of Parent (collectively, the ""), in each case pursuant to and in accordance with the Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization dated February 27, 2012, as amended, between the Existing Borrower and MergeCo (the "");
MergeCo
Merger
Merger Agreement
WHEREAS, on or about May 4, 2012, 100% of the outstanding Class A ordinary shares of the Parent were deposited with the Exchange Agent, as defined in and pursuant to the Stock Exchange Agent Agreement dated May 4, 2012 (the "") by and among the Parent and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association (""), and Computershare Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), Trust Company and Computershare collectively in their capacity as Exchange Agent (such deposit being the "");
Exchange Agency Agreement
Trust Company
Computershare
Deposit
WHEREAS, the Existing Borrower has requested, and the Lenders have agreed, to make (a) the Existing Borrower and the Parent co-Borrowers under the Credit Agreement and (b) certain amendments to the Credit Agreement, each as provided for herein;
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants, representations and warranties contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
.Subject to the satisfaction of the conditions precedent specified in below, but effective as of the Effective Date, the Credit Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety in the form of the Credit Agreement between the Borrowers, the Lenders and the Administrative Agent attached hereto as (the "").
Section 1.
Amendment
Section 3
Exhibit A
Conformed Credit Agreement
. The Parent by its signature below becomes a Borrower under the Credit Agreement with the same force and effect as if originally named therein as a Borrower, and the Parent hereby (a) agrees to all the terms and provisions of the Credit Agreement applicable to it as a Borrower thereunder and (b) represents and warrants that the representations and warranties made by it as a Borrower under the Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents are true and correct on and as of the date hereof. Except as expressly modified hereby, the Credit Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Section 2.
New Borrower
. The amendment to the Credit Agreement set forth in shall become effective as of the Effective Date upon the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
Section 3.
Conditions Precedent
Section 1
(a) . On the Effective Date the Administrative Agent shall have received evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, of:
Consummation of Merger
(1) The consummation of the Merger in accordance with the Merger Agreement; and
(2) The consummation of the Deposit in accordance with the Exchange Agency Agreement.
(b) . The Administrative Agent shall have received the following, each dated on or before the Effective Date, duly executed by all the parties thereto, each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent:
Documentation
(1)(i) counterparts of this Amendment duly executed by each Borrower, the Lenders and the Administrative Agent and (ii) counterparts of the attached Acknowledgment and Reaffirmation duly executed by each Material Subsidiary;
(2) a new Note executed by the Borrowers in replacement of an existing Note previously delivered by the Existing Borrower to any Lender, evidencing such Lender's Advances;
(3) counterparts of the Parent Guaranty duly executed by the Parent;
(4) a certificate from a Responsible Officer of the Parent dated as of the Effective Date hereof stating that as of such date (A) all representations and warranties of the Credit Parties set forth in this Amendment are true and correct in all material respects (provided that (i) to the extent any representation and warranty expressly relates to a specific earlier date, such representation and warranty is true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date and (ii) to the extent any representation and warranty is qualified as to "Material Adverse Change" or otherwise as to "materiality", such representation and warranty is true and correct in all respects), (B) no Default has occurred and is continuing, (C) the Merger has been consummated prior to or simultaneously with the effectiveness of this Amendment in accordance
 
with the Merger Agreement; (D) the Deposit has been consummated in accordance with the Exchange Agency Agreement; (E) attached are true and correct copies of the Merger Agreement and the Exchange Agency Agreement as in effect on the date hereof; and (F) no governmental approvals, other than those approvals obtained in connection with the Merger, are necessary for the Parent, the Existing Borrower and each other Subsidiary of the Parent to enter into the Merger Agreement and the Loan Documents to which it is a party, perform its obligations thereunder, and consummate the Merger;
(5) a secretary's certificate of the Existing Borrower dated the Effective Date and certifying (A) the organizational documents of the Existing Borrower attached thereto, (B) that attached thereto is a true and complete copy of resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Existing Borrower authorizing the execution and delivery of this Amendment and the Credit Documents executed in connection herewith and the performance of the Credit Agreement as amended hereby and the other Credit Documents, and that such resolutions have not been modified, rescinded or amended and are in full force and effect, and (C) as to the incumbency and specimen signature of each officer of the Existing Borrower executing this Amendment, any Credit Document or any other document delivered in connection herewith on behalf of the Existing Borrower;
(6) a secretary's certificate of each Credit Party (other than the Existing Borrower and the Parent) dated the Effective Date and certifying (A) the organizational documents of such Credit Party attached thereto, (B) that attached thereto is a true and complete copy of resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors of such Credit Party authorizing the execution and delivery of the Acknowledgment and Reaffirmation attached to this Amendment and the Credit Documents executed in connection herewith and the performance of the Credit Agreement as amended hereby and the other Credit Documents, and that such resolutions have not been modified, rescinded or amended and are in full force and effect, and (C) as to the incumbency and specimen signature of each officer of such Credit Party executing the Acknowledgment and Reaffirmation attached to this Amendment, any Credit Document or any other document delivered in connection herewith on behalf of such Credit Party;
(7) a secretary's certificate of the Parent dated the Effective Date and certifying (A) the organizational documents of Parent attached thereto, (B) that attached thereto is a true and complete copy of resolutions duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Parent authorizing the execution and delivery of this Amendment, the Parent Guaranty and the Credit Documents executed in connection herewith and the performance of the Credit Agreement as amended hereby and the other Credit Documents, and that such resolutions have not been modified, rescinded or amended and are in full force and effect, and (C) as to the incumbency and specimen signature of each officer of the Parent executing this Amendment, the Parent Guaranty, any Credit Document or any other document delivered in connection herewith on behalf of the Parent;
(8) certificates of good standing for each Credit Party in (a) the jurisdiction in which such Credit Party is organized and (b) each jurisdiction in which such good standing is necessary except where the failure to be in good standing could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change, which certificate shall be dated a date not earlier than 30 days prior to date hereof;
 
(9) a legal opinion of Andrews Kurth LLP, outside counsel to the Credit Parties, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent;
(10) a legal opinion of Baker & McKenzie, United Kingdom counsel to the Parent;
(11) a letter of acceptance of the Process Agent duly executed, evidencing its approval and consent to act as service of process agent in the State of New York on behalf of the each Foreign Credit Party in accordance with the terms set forth in Section 9.19 of the Credit Agreement; and
(12) such other documents, governmental certificates, and agreements as any Lender Party may reasonably request.
(c) . On the Effective Date, the Borrowers shall have paid any costs and expenses which have been invoiced and are payable pursuant to of the Credit Agreement.
Payment of Expenses
Section 9.1
. Each of the Borrowers represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent that the representations and warranties set forth in of the Conformed Credit Agreement are true and correct on the date hereof as if made on and as of the date hereof and as if each reference in said to "this Agreement" or "the Credit Documents" included reference to this Amendment.
Section 4.
Representations and Warranties
Article IV
Article IV
. THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. Except as herein provided, the Credit Agreement shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same amendatory instrument and any of the parties hereto may execute this Amendment by signing any such counterpart. Transmission by facsimile of an executed counterpart of this Amendment shall be deemed to constitute due and sufficient delivery of such counterpart.
Section 5.
Miscellaneous
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed and delivered by their respective duly authorized officers as of the Effective Date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This dated as of September 16, 2010 ("") is among (a) , a Delaware corporation (""), and , an English public limited company (the "" and, together with Rowan Delaware, the "" and each a ""), (b) the Lenders (as defined below), and (c) , as Swingline Lender, an Issuing Lender, and as the Administrative Agent (each as defined below) for the Lenders.
CREDIT AGREEMENT
Agreement
Rowan Companies, Inc.
Rowan Delaware
Rowan Companies plc
Parent
Borrowers
Borrower
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association
The parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
1.1 As used in this Agreement (including in the introduction), the defined terms set forth in the recitals above shall have the meanings set forth above and the following terms shall have the following meanings:
.
Certain Defined Terms
"" means the $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Rowan Delaware's 7.875% Senior Notes due 2019 issued pursuant to the Indenture (together with any notes of such series issued in substitution or exchange therefor).
2009 Notes
"" means the $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Rowan Delaware's 5.0% Senior Notes due 2017 issued pursuant to the Indenture (together with any notes of such series issued in substitution or exchange therefor).
2010 Notes
"" means the purchase by the Parent or any of its Subsidiaries of any business, including the purchase of associated assets or operations or the Equity Interests of a Person.
Acquisition
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.1(d)(i).
Additional Revolving Lender
"" means any senior unsecured notes of one or more series (other than the 2009 Notes and the 2010 Notes) issued by Rowan Delaware from time to time pursuant to the Indenture, together with any notes issued in substitution or exchange therefor pursuant to the Indenture.
Additional Notes
"" means, for any day, a fluctuating rate per annum of interest equal to the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) the sum of the Federal Funds Rate in effect on such day 0.5% and (c) the Eurodollar Rate in effect on such day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding Business Day) for a deposit in Dollars with a maturity of one month plus 1.0% per annum. Any change in the Adjusted Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Rate or the Eurodollar Rate shall be effective on the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Rate or the Eurodollar Rate.
Adjusted Base Rate
plus
"" means Wells Fargo in its capacity as agent for the Lenders pursuant to Article VIII and any successor agent appointed pursuant to Section 8.6.
Administrative Agent
"" means an administrative questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" means a Revolving Advance or a Swingline Advance.
Advance
"" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
"" means $150,000,000.
Aggregate Letter of Credit Sublimit
"" means, at any time, with respect to each Type and Class of Advance, the Letters of Credit and the Commitment Fees, the percentage rate per annum which is applicable at such time with respect to such Advance, Letter of Credit or Commitment Fee as set forth in .
Applicable Margin
Schedule I
"" means, at any time, with respect to any Revolving Lender, subject to any adjustment as provided in Section 2.17(a)(iv), the percentage of the aggregate Revolving Commitments represented by such Lender's Revolving Commitment at such time, provided that if the Revolving Commitments have terminated, the Applicable Percentages of the Revolving Lenders shall be determined based upon the Revolving Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments.
Applicable Percentage
"" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
"" means Wells Fargo Securities LLC, Citibank, N.A., DnB Markets, Inc. and RBC Capital Markets, each in their capacities as co-lead arranger and joint bookrunner.
Arrangers
"" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
"" means an assignment and acceptance executed by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee and accepted by the Administrative Agent and in substantially the form set forth in Exhibit A or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent that complies with .
Assignment and Acceptance
Section 10.6
"" means an Advance which bears interest based upon the Adjusted Base Rate as provided in Section 2.9(a).
Base Rate Advance
"" shall have the meaning given such term in Schedule 6.1.
Bob Palmer MARAD Series
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in the preamble of this Agreement.
Borrowers
"" means the Parent, which is authorized to act on behalf of the Borrowers under Section 9.6 of this Agreement.
Borrower Representative
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Revolving Advances of the same Type made by the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.1(a) or Converted by each Lender to Revolving Advances of a different Type pursuant to Section 2.5(b).
Borrowing
"" means any day (a) other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Legal Requirements of, or are in fact closed in, New York, North Carolina or Texas and (b) if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurodollar Advances, on which dealings are carried on by commercial banks in the London interbank market.
Business Day
 
"" means, for any Person, any lease of any Property by such Person as lessee which would, in accordance with GAAP, be required to be classified and accounted for as a capital lease on the balance sheet of such Person.
Capital Leases
"" means a special cash collateral account pledged to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Issuing Lenders containing cash deposited pursuant to the terms hereof to be maintained with the Administrative Agent in accordance with Section 2.3(g).
Cash Collateral Account
"" means to pledge and deposit with or deliver to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Issuing Lenders, as collateral for the Letter of Credit Exposure, cash or deposit account balances pursuant to documentation in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Lenders (which documentation is hereby consented to by the Lenders). Derivatives of such term have corresponding meanings.
Cash Collateralize
"" means any agreement to provide cash management services, including treasury, depository, overdraft, credit or debit card, electronic funds transfer and other cash management arrangements.
Cash Management Agreement
"" means any Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender that is a counterparty to a Cash Management Agreement with the Parent or any Subsidiary thereof.
Cash Management Bank
"" means all obligations of the Parent or any Subsidiary thereof arising from time to time under any Cash Management Agreement with a Cash Management Bank; provided that if such Cash Management Bank ceases to be a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender hereunder, the Cash Management Bank Obligations owed to such Cash Management Bank shall cease to be Cash Management Bank Obligations and shall no longer be secured or guaranteed under any Credit Document.
Cash Management Bank Obligations
"" means the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, state and local analogs, and all rules and regulations and requirements thereunder.
CERCLA
"" means the occurrence of any of the following events: (a) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, but excluding any employee benefit plan of such person or its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee, agent or other fiduciary or administrator of any such plan) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except that a person or group shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all securities that such person or group has the right to acquire (such right, an "option right"), whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), directly or indirectly, of 50% or more of the equity securities of the Parent entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the Parent on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such securities that such person or group has the right to acquire pursuant to any option or similar right), (b) during any period of 12 consecutive months, a majority of the members of the board of directors or other equivalent governing body of the Parent cease to be composed of individuals (i) who were members of that board or equivalent governing body on the first day of such period, (ii) whose election or nomination to that board or equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clause (i) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body or (iii) whose election or nomination to that board or other equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body, or (c) any Credit Party (other than the Parent) shall cease to be wholly-owned, directly or indirectly, by the Parent.
Change in Control
 
"" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority; provided however, for purposes of this Agreement and to the extent permitted by applicable Laws, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all requests, guidelines or directives in connection therewith are deemed to have gone into effect and adopted after the date of this Agreement.
Change in Law
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.3.
Class
"" means the first date all the conditions precedent in Section 3.1 are satisfied or waived in accordance with Section 10.2.
Closing Date
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, any successor statute and the rules, regulations and published interpretations thereof.
Code
"" means the fees required under Section 2.8(a).
Commitment Fee
"" means a compliance certificate executed by a senior financial officer of the Borrower Representative in substantially the same form as Exhibit B.
Compliance Certificate
"" means, with respect to any Person, without duplication, any contingent liabilities, obligations or indebtedness of such Person (other than endorsements in the ordinary course of business of negotiable instruments for deposit or collection), including (a) any obligations or similar undertakings to guarantee any Indebtedness of any other Person in any manner, whether direct or indirect, and including any obligation to purchase any such Debt or any Property constituting security therefor, to advance or provide funds or other support for the payment or purchase of any such Debt or to maintain working capital, solvency or other balance sheet condition of such other Person (including keep well agreements, maintenance agreements, comfort letters or similar agreements or arrangements) for the benefit of any holder of Indebtedness of such other Person, to lease or purchase Property, securities or services primarily for the purpose of assuring the holder of such Indebtedness, or otherwise to assure or hold harmless the holder of such Debt against loss in respect thereof, (b) obligations to indemnify other Persons against liability or loss, to the extent not arising in the ordinary course of business, and (c) warranty obligations and other contractually assumed obligations, to the extent not arising in the ordinary course of business.
Contingent Debt
"", "", and "" each refers to a continuation of Eurodollar Advances for an additional Interest Period upon the expiration of the Interest Period then in effect for such Advances.
Continue
Continuation
Continued
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
"" means all members of a controlled group of corporations and all businesses (whether or not incorporated) under common control which, together with the Parent or any Subsidiary (as applicable), are treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
Controlled Group
"", "" and "" each refers to a conversion of Advances of one Type into Advances of another Type pursuant to Section 2.5(b).
Convert
Conversion
Converted
 
"" means this Agreement, the Notes, the Letter of Credit Documents, the Guaranties, the Fee Letter, and each other agreement, instrument, or document executed at any time in connection with this Agreement.
Credit Documents
"" means an Advance or a Letter of Credit Extension.
Credit Extension
"" means the Borrowers and the Guarantors.
Credit Parties
"" means, for any Person, without duplication: (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments upon which interest payments are customarily made; (c) all obligations of such Person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to any Properties purchased by such Person (other than customary reservations or retentions of title under agreements with suppliers entered into in the ordinary course of business), (d) all obligations of such Person issued or assumed as the deferred purchase price of Property or services purchased by such Person (other than trade debt, accrued compensation, claims, taxes and related obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business on customary terms) which would appear as liabilities on a balance sheet of such Person, (e) all obligations of such Person under take-or-pay or similar arrangements or under commodities agreements, (f) all Debt of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Debt has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on, or payable out of the proceeds of production from, Property owed by such Person, whether or not the obligation secured thereby have been assumed (to the extent of the fair market value of such Property), (g) all Contingent Debt of such Person with respect to Debt of another Person, (h) the principal portion of all obligations of such Person under Capital Leases, (i) all net obligations of such Person under Hedging Arrangements, (j) the maximum amount of all standby letters of credit issued or bankers' acceptances facilities created for the account of such Person and, without duplication, all drafts drawn thereunder (to the extent unreimbursed), (k) all preferred Equity Interests issued by such Person and which by the terms thereof could be (at the request of the holders thereof or otherwise) subject to mandatory sinking fund payments, repurchase, redemption or other acceleration any time during the period ending on the term of the Agreement, (l) the principal portion of all obligations of such Person under Synthetic Leases, and (m) the Debt of any partnership or unincorporated joint venture in which such Person is a general partner or a joint venturer, but only to the extent to which there is recourse to such Person for the payment of such Debt.
Debt
"" means (a) the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and (b) all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
"" means, as of the end of any fiscal quarter, the ratio (expressed as a percentage) of (a) all Funded Debt to (b) the sum of (i) all Funded Debt plus (ii) the consolidated Net Worth of the Parent, each as of the last day of such fiscal quarter.
Debt to Capitalization Ratio
"" means (a) an Event of Default or (b) any event or condition which with notice or lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
"" means, subject to Section 2.17(b), any Lender that, as determined by the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Lender in each case, acting reasonably and in good faith:
Defaulting Lender
(a) has failed to perform any of its funding obligations hereunder, including in respect of its Loans or participations in respect of Letters of Credit, within three (3) Business Days of the date required to be funded by it hereunder, unless such obligation is the subject of a good faith dispute;
 
(b) has notified any Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Lender or any Lender that it does not intend to comply with its funding obligations hereunder or under other agreements generally in which it commits to extend credit, has made a public statement to that effect with respect to its respective funding obligations hereunder or under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit or has defaulted generally on its funding obligations under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, in each case, unless such obligation is the subject of a good faith dispute;
(c) has failed, within three (3) Business Days after request by the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Lender (such request being based upon a reasonable, good-faith belief that such Lender is or will be in default with respect to its funding obligations hereunder), to confirm in a manner satisfactory to the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Lender, as applicable, that it will comply with its funding obligations, unless such obligation is the subject of a good faith dispute; or
(d) has, or has a direct or indirect parent company that has, (i) become the subject of a proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, (ii) had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with reorganization or liquidation of its business or a custodian appointed for it, or (iii) taken any action in furtherance of, or indicated its consent to, approval of or acquiescence in any such proceeding or appointment; provided that a Lender shall not be a Defaulting Lender solely by virtue of the ownership or acquisition of any equity interest in that Lender or any direct or indirect parent company thereof by a Governmental Authority.
The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify in writing the Borrower Representative and the Lenders of any determination that a Lender has become a Defaulting Lender.
"" means, with respect to the Revolving Credit Facility, (a) except as provided in (b) or (c) below, when used with respect to Obligations other than letter of credit fees, an interest rate equal to the sum of (i) the Adjusted Base Rate plus (ii) the Applicable Margin, if any, applicable to Base Rate Advances for the Revolving Credit Facility plus (iii) 2% per annum; (b) with respect to any Eurodollar Advance, an interest rate equal to the sum of (i) the Eurodollar Rate plus (ii) the Applicable Margin, if any, applicable to Eurodollar Rate Advances for the Revolving Credit Facility plus (iii) 2% per annum, and (c) when used with respect to letter of credit fees, a rate equal to the Applicable Margin, if any, applicable to Eurodollar Rate Advances for the Revolving Credit Facility plus 2% per annum.
Default Rate
"" and "" means lawful money of the United States.
Dollars
$
"" means, with respect to any Person, any of its Subsidiaries that is incorporated or organized under the laws of the United States, any State thereof or the District of Columbia.
Domestic Subsidiary
"" means, without duplication, for the Parent and its consolidated Subsidiaries, the sum of (a) its Net Income for such period (b) to the extent deducted in determining Net Income, Interest Expense, income taxes, depreciation, amortization and other non-recurring, non-cash charges and other non-cash extraordinary items for such period (c) to the extent included in determining Net Income, non-recurring gains, and excluding any results of discontinued operations, in each case determined in accordance with GAAP; provided that such EBITDA shall be subject to pro forma adjustments for Acquisitions and Nonordinary Course Asset Sales assuming that such transactions had occurred on the first day of the determination period, which adjustments shall be made in accordance with the guidelines for pro forma presentations set forth by the SEC.
EBITDA
plus
minus
"" means (a) a Lender; (b) an Affiliate of a Lender; (c) an Approved Fund; and (d) any other Person (other than a natural person).
Eligible Assignee
 
"" or "" shall have the meanings set forth in 42 U.S.C. 9601(8) (1988).
Environment
Environmental
"" means any third party (including governmental agencies and employees) action, lawsuit, claim, demand, regulatory action or proceeding, order, decree, consent agreement or notice of potential or actual responsibility or violation (including claims or proceedings under the Occupational Safety and Health Acts or similar laws or requirements relating to health or safety of employees) which seeks to impose liability under any Environmental Law.
Environmental Claim
"" means all federal, state, and local laws, rules, regulations, ordinances, orders, decisions, agreements, and other requirements, including common law theories, now or hereafter in effect and relating to, or in connection with the Environment, health, or safety, including without limitation CERCLA, relating to (a) pollution, contamination, injury, destruction, loss, protection, cleanup, reclamation or restoration of the air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata, or other natural resources; (b) solid, gaseous or liquid waste generation, treatment, processing, recycling, reclamation, cleanup, storage, disposal or transportation; (c) exposure to pollutants, contaminants, hazardous, medical infections, or toxic substances, materials or wastes; (d) the safety or health of employees; or (e) the manufacture, processing, handling, transportation, distribution in commerce, use, storage or disposal of hazardous or toxic substances, materials or wastes.
Environmental Law
"" means any permit, license, order, approval, registration or other authorization under Environmental Law.
Environmental Permit
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and any successor statute and all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ERISA
"" means at any time the minimum liability with respect to Plans which would be required to be reflected at such time as a liability on the consolidated balance sheet of the Parent and its consolidated Subsidiaries under paragraphs 36 and 70 of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87, as such Statement may from time to time be amended, modified or supplemented, or under any successor statement issued in replacement thereof.
ERISA Liabilities
"" means with respect to any Person, any shares, interests, participation, or other equivalents (however designated) of corporate stock, membership interests or partnership interests (or any other ownership interests) of such Person.
Equity Interest
"" means an Advance that bears interest based upon the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Advance
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Federal Reserve Board as in effect from time to time.
Eurocurrency Liabilities
"" means, for the Interest Period for each Eurodollar Advance comprising the same Borrowing, the interest rate per annum (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) equal to (a) the applicable British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rate for deposits in Dollars (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) appearing on the Reuters "LIBOR01" screen (or on any successor or substitute screen provided by Reuters, or any successor to or substitute for such service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such screen, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to deposits in Dollars in the London interbank market) as of 11:00 a.m. (London, England time) two Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period, and having a maturity equal to such Interest Period, and (b) if the rate as determined under clause (a) is not available at such time for any
Eurodollar Rate
 
reason, then the applicable Eurodollar Rate for the relevant Interest Period shall instead be the rate determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which the Administrative Agent or one of its affiliate banks offers to place deposits in Dollars for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period with first class banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period in the amount of $5,000,000 and having a maturity equal to such Interest Period.
"" has the meaning specified in Section 7.1.
Event of Default
"" means, with respect to any Lender Party or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of any Credit Party hereunder, (a) taxes imposed on or measured by its net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) as a result of a present or future connection between any such Lender Party or any recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any Obligation and such jurisdiction or political subdivision or Governmental Authority thereof (other than such connection arising from such recipient having executed, delivered or performed its obligations or received a payment under, or enforced, this Agreement or any other Credit Document, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by any jurisdiction described in clause (a), (c) in the case of a Non-US Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrowers under Section 2.16), any withholding tax that is imposed by the United States on amounts payable to such Non-US Lender at the time such Non-US Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office) or is attributable to such Non-US Lender's failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with Section 2.14(e), except to the extent that such Non-US Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrowers with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to Section 2.14 and (d) any United States federal withholding taxes imposed under FATCA.
Excluded Taxes
"" means that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of June 23, 2008, by and among Rowan Delaware, the lenders party thereto, Wells Fargo, as administrative agent, and the other agents party thereto, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified by that certain First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of July 17, 2009.
Existing Credit Facility
"" means the letters of credit issued under the Existing Credit Facility and set forth on Schedule III.
Existing Letters of Credit
"" means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code as enacted on the Closing Date (or any amended or successor version that is substantively comparable and not materially more onerous to comply with) and any current or future regulations or official interpretations thereof.
FATCA
"" means, for any day, a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; provided that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate charged to the Administrative Agent (in its individual capacity) on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any of its successors.
Federal Reserve Board
 
"" means that certain fee letter dated August 18, 2010 between Rowan Delaware and Wells Fargo.
Fee Letter
"" means, for any period, the consolidated financial statements of the Parent and its consolidated Subsidiaries, including statements of income and cash flow for such period as well as a balance sheet as of the end of such period, and accompanying footnotes, all prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Financial Statements
"" means any Credit Party that is not incorporated or organized under the laws of the United States, any State thereof, or the District of Columbia.
Foreign Credit Party
"" means any Subsidiary of a Person that is not a Domestic Subsidiary.
Foreign Subsidiary
"" means, at any time there is a Defaulting Lender or Potential Defaulting Lender, with respect to any Issuing Lender, (a) such Defaulting Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined, for the avoidance of doubt, without giving effect to any adjustment provided for in Section 2.17(a)(iv)) of the outstanding Letter of Credit Exposure with respect to Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Lender less (b) any portion of the amount calculated under clause (a) above the risk participation with respect to which has been reallocated to other Lenders or Cash Collateralized in accordance with the terms hereof.
Fronting Exposure
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business.
Fund
"" means all Debt of the Parent and its consolidated Subsidiaries of the types described in clauses (a), (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), (j), (l) and (m) of the definition of "Debt" (but (i) with respect to Debt described such clauses (f) and (g), only to the extent such Debt relates to the types of other Debt described in this definition and (ii) excluding any intercompany Debt of the Parent and its Subsidiaries).
Funded Debt
"" means United States generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time, applied on a basis consistent with the requirements of Section 1.2.
GAAP
"" means the government of the United States or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
"" means, collectively, (a) the Parent Guaranty, (b) any Material Subsidiary Guaranty, (c) any Specified Holding Company Guaranty, and (d) any other guaranty agreements or joinders or supplements thereto executed in favor of the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lender Parties.
Guaranties
"" means, collectively (a) the Parent, (b) each Material Subsidiary that has complied with the requirements of Section 5.6, (c) each Specified Holding Company that has complied with the requirements of Section 5.9 and (d) any other Person that has entered into a Guaranty.
Guarantors
"" means any substance or material identified as such pursuant to CERCLA and those regulated under any other Environmental Law, including without limitation pollutants, contaminants, petroleum, petroleum products, radionuclides, and radioactive materials.
Hazardous Substance
 
"" means any substance or material regulated or designated as such pursuant to any Environmental Law, including without limitation, pollutants, contaminants, flammable substances and materials, explosives, radioactive materials, oil, petroleum and petroleum products, chemical liquids and solids, polychlorinated biphenyls, asbestos, toxic substances, and similar substances and materials.
Hazardous Waste
"" means a hedge, call, swap, collar, floor, cap, option, forward sale or purchase or other contract or similar arrangement (including any obligations to purchase or sell any commodity or security at a future date for a specific price) which is entered into to reduce or eliminate or otherwise protect against the risk of fluctuations in prices or rates, including interest rates, foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and securities prices.
Hedging Arrangement
"" means any Lender or any Affiliate thereof that is party to a Hedging Arrangement with any Credit Party.
Hedge Counterparty
"" means the effective date of a Revolving Facility Increase as provided in Section 2.1(d).
Increase Date
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.1(d)(i).
Increasing Revolving Lender
"" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" has the meaning specified in Section 10.1.
Indemnitees
"" means the Indenture dated as of July 21, 2009 between Rowan Delaware and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 21, 2009, the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 30, 2010, and as the same may be further amended, modified or supplemented from time to time as permitted by this Agreement.
Indenture
"" means, for any period and with respect to any Person, total interest expense (net of interest income) whether paid or accrued, all as determined in conformity with GAAP.
Interest Expense
"" means for each Eurodollar Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Eurodollar Advance is made or deemed made and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower Representative pursuant to the provisions below and Section 2.5, and thereafter, each subsequent period commencing on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower Representative pursuant to the provisions below and Section 2.5. The duration of each such Interest Period shall be one, two, three, or six months, in each case as the Borrower Representative may select, provided that:
Interest Period
(a) Interest Periods commencing on the same date for Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing shall be of the same duration;
(b) whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to occur on the next succeeding Business Day, provided that if such extension would cause the last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, the last day of such Interest Period shall occur on the next preceding Business Day;
(c) any Interest Period which begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month in which it would have ended if there were a numerically corresponding day in such calendar month; and
 
(d) the Borrower Representative may not select any Interest Period for any Revolving Advance that ends after the Revolving Credit Maturity Date.
"" means Wells Fargo, Citibank, N.A., DnB Bank ASA, Royal Bank of Canada and any other Lender designated in writing to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower Representative (and consented to by such Lender) as an issuer of Letters of Credit, each in their respective capacity as an issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder.
Issuing Lender
"" means any law, statute, ordinance, decree, requirement, order, judgment, rule, treaty, code, administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, regulation (or official interpretation of any of the foregoing) of, and the terms of any license, authorization or permit issued by, and any agreement with, any Governmental Authority, including, but not limited to, Regulations T, U and X.
Legal Requirement
"" means Lenders, the Issuing Lenders, the Swingline Lender and the Administrative Agent.
Lender Parties
"" means the Persons listed on and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance or pursuant to Section 2.1(d) (other than any such Person that has ceased to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance or pursuant to Sections 2.16 or 2.17). Unless the context otherwise requires, the term "Lenders" includes the Swingline Lender.
Lenders
Schedule II
"" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Borrower Representative and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
"" means any standby or commercial letter of credit issued by an Issuing Lender for the account of a Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, in such form as may be agreed by such Borrower and such Issuing Lender and shall include the Existing Letters of Credit.
Letter of Credit
"" means the applicable Issuing Lender's standard form letter of credit application for standby or commercial letters of credit which has been executed by a Borrower and accepted by such Issuing Lender in connection with the issuance of a Letter of Credit.
Letter of Credit Application
"" means all Letters of Credit, Letter of Credit Applications and amendments thereof, and agreements, documents, and instruments entered into in connection therewith or relating thereto.
Letter of Credit Documents
"" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the issuance thereof, extension of the expiry date thereof, or the increase of the amount thereof.
Letter of Credit Extension
"" means the aggregate outstanding undrawn amount of Letters of Credit plus the aggregate unpaid amount of all payment obligations under drawn Letters of Credit.
Letter of Credit Exposure
"" means any obligations under this Agreement in connection with the Letters of Credit.
Letter of Credit Obligations
 
"" means, with respect to any Issuing Lender at any time, an amount equal to the Aggregate Letter of Credit Sublimit divided by the total number of Issuing Lenders at such time.
Letter of Credit Sublimit
"" means any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, deed of trust, security interest, or encumbrance to secure or provide for the payment of any obligation of any Person, whether arising by contract, operation of law, or otherwise (including the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale agreement, Capital Lease, or other title retention agreement).
Lien
"" means the U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration.
MARAD
"" means, with respect to any MARAD Series, at any time, the guaranty by MARAD of such MARAD Series is in effect at such time and:
MARAD Conditions
(a) a consent or consents by MARAD to the Merger, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, is in effect at such time; or
(b) a forbearance or forbearances by MARAD of its rights with respect to any violation of, default under, or prepayment obligation under any agreement governing such MARAD Series triggered or caused by the Merger, such forbearance or forbearances to be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, is in effect at such time; or
(c) a waiver or waivers of any violation of, default under, or prepayment obligation under any agreement governing such MARAD Series triggered or caused by the Merger, such waiver or waivers to be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, is in effect at such time; or
(d) if none of the conditions in clause (a), clause (b), or clause (c) above is satisfied at such time:
(i) Rowan Delaware shall have delivered to Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company (the "Indenture Trustee"), with a copy to MARAD, a notice that Rowan Delaware plans to redeem the full principal amount of such MARAD Series, together with accrued interest and make whole premium, on the next date that an optional redemption would be permitted under the agreements governing such MARAD Series, such notice to be delivered (x) in the case of each MARAD Series other than the Bob Palmer MARAD Series, on or before the Second Amendment Closing Date and (y) in the case of the Bob Palmer MARAD Series, on the first day on which Rowan Delaware may give such notice pursuant to the agreements governing such MARAD Series;
(ii) Rowan Delaware shall have deposited with the Indenture Trustee the estimated make whole premium required in connection with such planned redemption (x) in the case of each MARAD Series other than the Bob Palmer MARAD Series, on or before the Second Amendment Closing Date and (y) in the case of the Bob Palmer MARAD Series, on the first day on which it may give such notice pursuant to the agreements governing such MARAD Series;
(iii) if MARAD, the applicable trustee, or any noteholder has taken or threatened any action to accelerate any obligations under any MARAD Series, enforce its rights of collection in connection with any MARAD Series, or otherwise realize on the collateral or guaranty securing any MARAD Series (including, in each case, pursuant to
 
the agreements governing such MARAD Series) or if MARAD has issued a Secretary's Notice with respect to such MARAD Series, Rowan Delaware shall have deposited with the Indenture Trustee (or if required by MARAD, with MARAD) the full amount of principal, interest, and other amounts owed in connection with such MARAD Series or shall have posted a letter of credit in favor of the Indenture Trustee (or if required by MARAD, in favor of MARAD) with a face amount equal to the full amount of principal, interest, and other amounts owed in connection with such MARAD Series, in either case pursuant to arrangements reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, and together with irrevocable instructions to the Indenture Trustee (or to MARAD, if deposited or posted with MARAD) (in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent) to use such amounts (or to make a draw on the applicable letter of credit and use the proceeds of such draw) and the make whole premium described in clause (ii) above to redeem such MARAD Series in full and to pay all amounts owed in connection therewith, on the earlier of (x) the first date that an optional redemption would be permitted under the agreements governing such MARAD Series and (y) the first date that Rowan Delaware or any of its Subsidiaries is required to pay such amounts in connection with an acceleration, enforcement, issuance of a Secretary's Notice, or other similar action; and
(iv) all principal, interest, make whole premiums, and other amounts owed in respect of such MARAD Series (including any amount required by a final determination of the make whole premium two business days prior to the proposed redemption date) shall have been paid, and all agreements relating to such MARAD Series (including any mortgages or other security documents) shall have been terminated, on earliest of (x) the first date that an optional redemption would be permitted under the agreements governing such MARAD Series, (y) the first date that Rowan Delaware or its Subsidiary is required to pay such amounts in connection with an acceleration, enforcement, issuance of a Secretary's Notice, or other similar action, and (z) July 16, 2012.
"" shall have the meaning given such term in Schedule 6.1.
MARAD Series
"" means, as of the date of determination, Lenders holding more than 50% of the sum of (a) the aggregate principal amount of the Advances and participations in the Letters of Credit at such time (b) the unused Revolving Commitments at such time; provided that, subject to Section 10.2, the Revolving Commitments, Advances and participations in the Letters of Credit of each Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Majority Lenders.
Majority Lenders
plus
"" means a material adverse change (a) in the condition (financial or otherwise), operations, business, assets or liabilities of the Parent and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; (b) on the validity or enforceability of this Agreement, any Note, any Guaranty or any of the other material Credit Documents or the rights, benefits or remedies of any Lender Party under this Agreement, any Note, any Guaranty or any of the other material Credit Documents; or (c) on the ability of the Parent or the Credit Parties taken as a whole to perform its or their obligations under this Agreement, any Note, any Guaranty or any other material Credit Document.
Material Adverse Change
"" means, as of a determination date, any Domestic Subsidiary of the Parent whose (a) EBITDA for the immediately preceding fiscal quarter as determined in accordance with GAAP, or (b) book value of total assets as established in accordance with GAAP, is equal to or greater than 5% of any of the Parent's (i) consolidated EBITDA for the immediately preceding fiscal quarter as determined in accordance with GAAP or (ii) consolidated book value of total assets as established in accordance with GAAP, respectively, and in each case as reflected in the Financial Statements covering such immediately preceding fiscal quarter and delivered to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders pursuant to the terms hereof.
Material Subsidiary
 
"" means a guaranty substantially in the form of Exhibit C made by any Material Subsidiary of the Parent party thereto from time to time in favor of the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lender Parties, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Material Subsidiary Guaranty
"" means the maximum non-usurious interest rate under applicable Legal Requirements (determined under such laws after giving effect to any items which are required by such laws to be construed as interest in making such determination, including without limitation if required by such laws, certain fees and other costs).
Maximum Rate
"" means Rowan Mergeco, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and, immediately prior to the effectiveness of the Merger, an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of Rowan Delaware.
MergeCo
"" means, collectively, (a) the merger whereby MergeCo will merge with and into Rowan Delaware, with Rowan Delaware being the surviving corporation and becoming an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the Parent and (b) the conversion of each outstanding Equity Interest of Rowan Delaware into the right to receive a share representing one Equity Interest of Parent, in each case pursuant to the Merger Agreement.
Merger
"" means the Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization dated February 27, 2012, between Rowan Delaware and MergeCo, as amended.
Merger Agreement
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto which is a nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
Moody's
"" means a "multiemployer plan" as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA to which the Parent or any member of the Controlled Group is making or accruing an obligation to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means, for any period and with respect to any Person, the net income for such period for such Person after taxes as determined in accordance with GAAP, excluding, however, (a) extraordinary items and (b) the cumulative effect of any change in GAAP.
Net Income
"" means as of the date of its determination, consolidated shareholders' equity of the Parent and its consolidated Subsidiaries, as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Net Worth
"" means, any sales, conveyances, or other transfers of Property made by the Parent or any Subsidiary (a) of any division of the Parent or any Subsidiary, (b) of the Equity Interest in a Subsidiary by the Parent or any other Subsidiary or (c) of any assets of the Parent or any Subsidiary, whether in a transaction or related series of transactions, outside the ordinary course of business.
Nonordinary Course Asset Sales
"" means a Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States, any State thereof, or the District of Columbia.
Non-US Lender
"" means the Senior Unsecured Notes, the Indenture and each other agreement, instrument, or document executed at any time in connection with the Senior Unsecured Notes.
Note Documents
 
"" means the Revolving Notes and the Swingline Note.
Notes
"" means a notice of borrowing signed by the Borrower Representative in substantially the same form as Exhibit D or such other form as shall be reasonably approved by the Administrative Agent.
Notice of Borrowing
"" means a notice of conversion or continuation signed by the Borrower Representative in substantially the same form as Exhibit E or such other form as shall be reasonably approved by the Administrative Agent.
Notice of Conversion or Continuation
"" means all principal, interest, fees, reimbursements, indemnifications, and other amounts now or hereafter owed by any Credit Party to any Lender Party under this Agreement and the Credit Documents, including, the Letter of Credit Obligations, any Hedging Arrangement with a Hedge Counterparty but only while such Person (or in the case of its Affiliate, the Person affiliated therewith) is a Lender hereunder, Cash Management Obligations, all interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against any Credit Party of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding, and any increases, extensions, and rearrangements of any of the foregoing obligations under any amendments, supplements, and other modifications of the documents and agreements creating those obligations.
Obligations
"" shall have the meaning given such term in Section 9.1.
Other Borrower Obligations
"" means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes, value added taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any other Credit Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Credit Document.
Other Taxes
"" means, for any day, the greater of (i) the Federal Funds Rate and (ii) an overnight rate determined by the Administrative Agent, the applicable Issuing Lender, or Swingline Lender, as the case may be, in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
Overnight Rate
"" shall have the meaning given such term in the preamble to this Agreement.
Parent
"" means that certain Guaranty Agreement dated as of May 4, 2012 made by the Parent in favor of the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lender Parties, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Parent Guaranty
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.6.
Participant
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any entity succeeding to any or all of its functions under ERISA.
PBGC
"" means any natural person, partnership, corporation (including a business trust), joint stock company, trust, limited liability company, unlimited liability company, limited liability partnership, unincorporated association, joint venture, or other entity, or Governmental Authority, or any trustee, receiver, custodian, or similar official.
Person
"" means an employee benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) maintained for employees of the Parent or any member of the Controlled Group and covered by Title IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Code.
Plan
 
"" means, at any time, a Lender that has, or whose parent company has, a non-investment grade rating from Moody's or S&P or another nationally recognized rating agency. Any determination that a Lender is a Potential Defaulting Lender will be made by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion acting reasonably and in good faith.
Potential Defaulting Lender
"" means the per annum rate of interest established from time to time by the Administrative Agent at its principal office as its prime rate, which rate may not be the lowest rate of interest charged by the Administrative Agent to its customers.
Prime Rate
"" of any Person means any property or assets (whether real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible) of such Person.
Property
"" means a Lender which is treated as a resident of a Treaty State for the purposes of a Treaty and does carry on a business in the United Kingdom through a permanent establishment with which such Lender's participation in the Credit Documents is effectively connected.
Qualified Treaty Lender
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.6(b).
Register
"" means Regulations T, U, X and D of the Federal Reserve Board, as each is from time to time in effect, and all official rulings and interpretations thereunder or thereof.
Regulations T, U, X and D
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees and agents of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" shall have the meaning set forth in CERCLA or under any other Environmental Law.
Release
"" means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA (other than any such event not subject to the provision for 30-day notice to the PBGC under the regulations issued under such section).
Reportable Event
"" shall have the meaning set forth in CERCLA or under any other Environmental Law.
Response
"" means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, treasurer, assistant treasurer or controller of a Credit Party.
Responsible Officer
"" means, with respect to any Person, (a) any direct or indirect dividend or distribution (whether in cash, securities or other Property) or any direct or indirect payment of any kind or character (whether in cash, securities or other Property) in consideration for or otherwise in connection with any retirement, purchase, redemption or other acquisition of any Equity Interest of such Person, or any options, warrants or rights to purchase or acquire any such Equity Interest of such Person or (b) principal or interest payments (in cash, Property or otherwise) on, or redemptions of, subordinated debt of such Person; provided that the term "Restricted Payment" shall not include any dividend or distribution payable solely in Equity Interests of such Person, or warrants, options or other rights to purchase such Equity Interests.
Restricted Payment
"" means an advance by a Lender to a Borrower as a part of a Borrowing pursuant to Section 2.1(a) and refers to either a Base Rate Advance or a Eurodollar Advance.
Revolving Advance
"" means, as to each Revolving Lender, its obligation to (a) make Revolving Advances to the Borrowers pursuant to Section 2.1(a), (b) purchase participations in Letters of Credit pursuant to Section 2.3 and (c) purchase participations in Swingline Advances pursuant to Section
Revolving Commitment
 
2.5, in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the Dollar amount set forth opposite such Revolving Lender's name on Schedule II as its Revolving Commitment or in the Assignment and Acceptance or any agreement referred to in Section 2.1(d), pursuant to which such Revolving Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement. The initial aggregate amount of Revolving Commitments as of the Closing Date is $500,000,000.
"" means, at any time, the aggregate amount of the Revolving Lenders' Revolving Commitments at such time.
Revolving Credit Facility
"" means the earlier of (a) June 30, 2016, and (b) the earlier termination in whole of the Revolving Commitments pursuant to Section 2.1(c) or Article VII.
Revolving Credit Maturity Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(d)(i).
Revolving Facility Increase
"" means any Lender that has a Revolving Commitment or holds a Revolving Advance or participation in any Letter of Credit.
Revolving Lender
"" means a promissory note of the Borrowers payable to the order of a Lender in the amount of such Lender's Revolving Commitment, in the form provided by the Administrative Agent and acceptable to the Borrowers.
Revolving Note
"" means, as of any date of determination, the sum of (a) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Revolving Advances (b) the Letter of Credit Exposure (c) the aggregate outstanding amount of all Swingline Advances.
Revolving Outstanding Amount
plus
plus
"" shall have the meaning given such term in the preamble to this Agreement.
Rowan Delaware
"" means immediately available funds.
Same Day Funds
"" means the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Sarbanes-Oxley
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Service, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., or any successor thereof which is a nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
S&P
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
"" means May 4, 2012.
Second Amendment Closing Date
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sarbanes-Oxley and the applicable accounting and auditing principles, rules, standards and practices promulgated, approved or incorporated by the SEC or the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, as each of the foregoing may be amended and in effect on any applicable date hereunder.
Securities Laws
"" means the 2009 Notes, the 2010 Notes and any Additional Notes.
Senior Unsecured Notes
"" means, as to any Person, on the date of any determination (a) the fair value of the Property of such Person is greater than the total amount of debts and other liabilities (including without limitation, contingent liabilities) of such Person, (b) the present fair salable value of the assets of such Person is not less than the amount that will be required to pay the probable liability of such Person on its
Solvent
 
debts and other liabilities (including, without limitation, contingent liabilities) as they become absolute and matured, (c) such Person is able to realize upon its assets and pay its debts and other liabilities (including, without limitation, contingent liabilities) as they mature in the normal course of businessand (d) such Person is not engaged in, a business or a transaction for which such Person's Property would constitute unreasonably small capital.
,
"" means (a) RDC Holdings Luxembourg, S.r.l, a private limited company organized under the laws of Luxembourg, and (b) any other Person owned, directly or indirectly, by the Parent who, directly or indirectly, owns (i) more than 50% of the equity securities of Rowan Delaware entitled to vote or (ii) equity securities representing more than 50% of the value of Rowan Delaware, in each case on a fully-diluted basis (and taking into account all such securities that such person or group has the right to acquire pursuant to any option or similar right).
Specified Holding Company
"" means a guaranty substantially in the form of Exhibit C made by any Specified Holding Company in favor of the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lender Parties, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Specified Holding Company Guaranty
"" means, with respect to any Person (the "") at any date, any other Person the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the parent in the parent's consolidated financial statements if such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such date, as well as any Person, a majority of whose outstanding Voting Securities (other than directors' qualifying shares) shall at any time be owned by such parent or one or more Subsidiaries of such parent. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a "Subsidiary" or to "Subsidiaries" shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Parent.
Subsidiary
parent
"" means an advance by the Swingline Lender to a Borrower pursuant to Section 2.4.
Swingline Advance
"" means Wells Fargo.
Swingline Lender
"" means the promissory note made by the Borrowers payable to the order of the Swingline Lender in the form provided by the Administrative Agent and acceptable to the Borrowers.
Swingline Note
"" means the last Business Day of each calendar month.
Swingline Payment Date
"" means $50,000,000.
Swingline Sublimit
"" means any synthetic lease, tax retention operating lease, off-balance sheet loan or similar off-balance sheet financing product where such transaction is considered borrowed money indebtedness for tax purposes but is classified as an operating lease under GAAP.
Synthetic Lease
"" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings, assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
"" means (a) a Reportable Event with respect to a Plan, (b) the withdrawal of the Parent or any member of the Controlled Group from a Plan during a plan year in which it was a "substantial employer" as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA, (c) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate a Plan or the treatment of a Plan amendment as a termination under Section 4041(c) of ERISA, (d) the institution of proceedings to terminate a Plan by the PBGC, or (e) any other event or condition which constitutes grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a
Termination Event
 
trustee to administer, any Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a standard termination of a Plan under Section 4041(b) of ERISA (including the filing of a notice of intent to terminate) shall not constitute a Termination Event.
"" means, collectively, (a) the entering by the Credit Parties into Credit Documents to which they are to be a party and (b) the payment of the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the consummation of the foregoing.
Transactions
"" means a jurisdiction having a double taxation agreement (a "Treaty") with the United Kingdom which makes provision for full or partial exemption from tax imposed by the United Kingdom on interest.
Treaty State
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 1.3.
Type
"" means the United States of America.
United States
"" means (a) with respect to any corporation, capital stock of such corporation having general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether at the time stock of any other class or classes shall have or might have special voting power or rights by reason of the happening of any contingency), (b) with respect to any partnership, any partnership interest or other ownership interest having general voting power to elect the general partner or other management of the partnership or other Person, and (c) with respect to any limited liability company, membership certificates or interests having general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect managers of such limited liability company.
Voting Securities
"" means Wells Fargo Bank, National Association.
Wells Fargo
1.2 .
Accounting Terms; Changes in GAAP
(a) Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all accounting terms used herein shall be interpreted, and all financial statements and certificates and reports as to financial matters required to be delivered to the Lenders hereunder shall be prepared, in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis. All calculations made for the purposes of determining compliance with this Agreement shall (except as otherwise expressly provided herein) be made by application of GAAP applied on a basis consistent with the most recent Financial Statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.2.
(b) Unless otherwise indicated, all Financial Statements of the Parent, all calculations for compliance with covenants in this Agreement, all determinations of the Applicable Margin, and all calculations of any amounts to be calculated under the definitions in Section 1.1 shall be based upon the consolidated accounts of the Parent and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP.
1.3 . Advances are distinguished by "Class" and "Type". The "Class", when used in reference to any Advance, refers to whether such Advance, or the Advances comprising such Borrowing are Revolving Advances or Swingline Advances. The "Type" of an Advance refers to the determination whether such Advance is a Eurodollar Advance or a Base Rate Advance.
Classes and Types of Advances
1.4 . With reference to this Agreement and each other Credit Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Credit Document:
Other Interpretive Provisions
(a) The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding
 
masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include," "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation." The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall." Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein or in any other Credit Document), (ii) any reference to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (iii) the words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder," and words of similar import when used in any Credit Document, shall be construed to refer to such Credit Document in its entirety and not to any particular provision thereof, (iv) all references in a Credit Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Credit Document in which such references appear, (v) any reference to any law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing or interpreting such law and any reference to any law or regulation shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, and (vi) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
(b) In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including;" the words "to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding;" and the word "through" means "to and including."
(c) Section headings herein and in the other Credit Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Credit Document.
2.1 .
Commitments
(a) . Each Revolving Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, to make Revolving Advances to the Borrowers from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Closing Date until the Revolving Credit Maturity Date in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed, at any time, such Revolving Lender's Revolving Commitment; provided that after giving effect to any Borrowing, the Revolving Outstanding Amount shall not exceed the aggregate Revolving Commitments in effect at such time. Within the limits of each Revolving Lender's Revolving Commitment, the Borrowers may from time to time borrow, prepay pursuant to Section 2.6, and reborrow under this Section 2.1(a).
Revolving Commitment
(b) [].
Reserved
(c) . The Parent shall have the right, upon at least three Business Days' irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent (or such later time as may be reasonable acceptable to the Administrative Agent), to terminate in whole or reduce ratably in part the unused portion of the Revolving Commitments; provided that each partial reduction shall be in the aggregate amount of $10,000,000 and in integral multiples of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Any reduction or termination of the Revolving Commitments pursuant to this Section shall be permanent, with no obligation of the Revolving Lenders to reinstate such Revolving Commitments, and the Commitment Fees shall thereafter be computed on the basis of the Revolving Commitments, as so reduced. To the extent that a Revolving Commitment reduction would result in the Revolving Outstanding Amount
Reduction of Commitments
 
exceeding the aggregate Revolving Commitments, the Borrowers shall reduce the Revolving Outstanding Amount such that after giving effect to such reduction such excess has been eliminated. Such reductions shall be made to the extent necessary by prepaying the Revolving Advances outstanding at such time, and depositing in the Cash Collateral Account an amount of cash equal to 100% of the remaining excess to be held by the Administrative Agent as collateral and applied to satisfy drawings under Letters of Credit as they occur. If after giving effect to any reduction of the Revolving Commitments under this Section, either the Aggregate Letter of Credit Sublimit or the Swingline Sublimit exceeds the aggregate Revolving Commitments as so reduced, the Aggregate Letter of Credit Sublimit, the Swingline Sublimit or both, as the case may be, shall be automatically reduced by the amount of such excess.
first
second
(d) .
Increase in Commitments
(i) . At any time prior to the Revolving Credit Maturity Date, the Parent may effectuate up to three separate increases in the aggregate Revolving Commitments (each such increase being a "Revolving Facility Increase"), by designating either one or more of the existing Revolving Lenders (each of which, in its sole discretion, may determine whether and to what degree to participate in such Revolving Facility Increase) or one or more other banks or other financial institutions (reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Lenders and the Swingline Lender) that at the time agree, in the case of any such bank or financial institution that is an existing Revolving Lender to increase its Revolving Commitment as such Lender shall so select (an "Increasing Revolving Lender") and, in the case of any other such bank or financial institution (an "Additional Revolving Lender"), to become a party to this Agreement; provided, however, that (A) each such Revolving Facility Increase shall be at least $25,000,000, (B) the aggregate amount of all Revolving Facility Increases shall not exceed $250,000,000, and (C) except as otherwise provided below, all Revolving Commitments and Revolving Advances provided pursuant to a Revolving Facility Increase shall be available on the same terms as those applicable to the existing Revolving Commitments and Revolving Advances. The sum of the increases in the Revolving Commitments of the Increasing Revolving Lenders plus the Revolving Commitments of the Additional Revolving Lenders upon giving effect to a Revolving Facility Increase shall not, in the aggregate, exceed the amount of such Revolving Facility Increase. The Parent shall provide prompt notice of any proposed Revolving Facility Increase pursuant to this clause (d)(i) to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders. This Section 2.1(d)(i) shall not be construed to create any obligation on any of the Administrative Agent or any of the Lenders to advance or to commit to advance any credit to the Borrowers or to arrange for any other Person to advance or to commit to advance any credit to the Borrowers.
Increase in Revolving Commitments
(ii) . A Revolving Facility Increase shall become effective upon (A) the receipt by the Administrative Agent of (1) an agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent signed by the Parent, each Increasing Revolving Lender and each Additional Revolving Lender, setting forth the Revolving Commitments, if any, of each such Lender and setting forth the agreement of each Additional Revolving Lender to become a party to this Agreement and to be bound by all the terms and provisions hereof binding upon each Lender, and (3) such evidence of appropriate authorization on the part of each Borrower with respect to such Revolving Facility Increase as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request, (B) a certificate of a Responsible Officer of each Borrower stating that, both before and after giving effect to such Revolving Facility Increase, no Default has occurred and is continuing, and that all representations and warranties made by the Borrowers in this Agreement are true and correct in all material respects (provided that to the extent any representation and warranty is qualified as to "Material Adverse Change" or otherwise as to "materiality", such representation and warranty is true and correct in all respects), unless such representation or warranty relates to
Procedure
 
an earlier date in which case it remains true and correct as of such earlier date, and the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of Section 4.4 shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of Section 5.2, and (2) the funding by each Increasing Revolving Lender and Additional Revolving Lender of the Advances to be made by each such Lender to effect the prepayment requirement set forth in Section 2.6(b)(ii). Notwithstanding any provision contained herein to the contrary, from and after the date of any Revolving Facility Increase, all calculations and payments of interest on the Advances shall take into account the actual Revolving Commitment of each Lender and the principal amount outstanding of each Advance made by such Lender during the relevant period of time.
(iii) . If the margin above the Eurodollar Rate on any Revolving Facility Increase exceeds the Applicable Margin on the Revolving Credit Facility (the amount of such excess being referred to herein as the ""), then the Applicable Margin then in effect for the Revolving Credit Facility shall automatically be increased by the Yield Differential, effective upon the effectiveness of such Revolving Facility Increase.
Commitment Increases Generally
Yield Differential
2.2 . The Advances made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent. The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Advances made by such Lenders to the Borrowers and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrowers hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. Upon the request of any Lender to the Borrowers made through the Administrative Agent, the Borrowers shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note which shall evidence such Lender's Advances to the Borrowers in addition to such accounts or records. Each Lender may attach schedules to such Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount, currency and maturity of its Advances and payments with respect thereto.
Evidence of Indebtedness
2.3 .
Letters of Credit
(a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in reliance upon the agreements of the Revolving Lenders set forth in this Section, each Issuing Lender agrees to, from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Closing Date until the Revolving Credit Maturity Date, issue, increase or extend the expiration date of, the Letters of Credit for the account of a Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof.
Commitment for Letters of Credit
(b) . Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Letter of Credit will be issued, increased, or extended:
Limitations
(i) (A) if such issuance, increase, or extension would cause the Letter of Credit Exposure to exceed the Aggregate Letter of Credit Sublimit or (B) if such issuance, increase, or extension would cause the Letter of Credit Exposure with respect to Letters of Credit issued by any Issuing Lender to exceed the Letter of Credit Sublimit applicable to such Issuing Lender (unless such Issuing Lender otherwise consents in its sole discretion);
 
(ii) if such issuance, increase, or extension would cause the Revolving Outstanding Amount to exceed the aggregate Revolving Commitments;
(iii) unless such Letter of Credit has an expiration date not later than five Business Days prior to the Revolving Credit Maturity Date;
(iv) unless such Letter of Credit is a standby or commercial letter of credit not supporting the repayment of indebtedness for borrowed money of any Person;
(v) unless such Letter of Credit is in form and substance acceptable to such Issuing Lender in its sole discretion;
(vi) unless the Borrowers have delivered to such Issuing Lender a completed and executed Letter of Credit Application; provided that, if the terms of any Letter of Credit Application conflicts with the terms of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall control;
(vii) unless such Letter of Credit is (A) governed by the Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits (1993 Revision), International Chamber of Commerce Publication No. 500 or any successor to such publication, in case of a commercial letter of credit and (B) the International Standby Practices 1998 published by the Institute of International Banking Law & Practice (or such later version thereof as may be in effect at the time of issuance), in case of standby letter of credit; and
(viii) if any Revolving Lender is at such time a Defaulting Lender or Potential Defaulting Lender; unless the applicable Issuing Lender has entered into arrangements, including the delivery of Cash Collateral, satisfactory to such Issuing Lender (in its sole discretion), with the Borrowers or such Revolving Lender to eliminate such Issuing Lender's actual or potential Fronting Exposure (after giving effect to Section 2.17(a)(iv)) with respect to such Defaulting Lender or Potential Defaulting Lender.
(c) . Each Letter of Credit Extension shall be made pursuant to a Letter of Credit Application, or if applicable, amendments to such Letter of Credit Applications, given by the Borrower Representative to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the applicable Issuing Lender by telecopy or in writing not later than 2:00 p.m. (Houston, Texas, time) on the third Business Day before the proposed date of the Letter of Credit Extension (or such later time as may be acceptable to such Issuing Lender in its sole discretion). Each Letter of Credit Application, or if applicable, amendments to such Letter of Credit Applications, shall be fully completed and shall specify the information required therein. Each Letter of Credit Application, or if applicable, amendments to such Letter of Credit Applications, shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrowers. Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the applicable Issuing Lender shall on the date of such Letter of Credit Extension, make such Letter of Credit Extension to the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit.
Requesting Letters of Credit
(d) . Upon receipt from the beneficiary of any Letter of Credit of any notice of a drawing under such Letter of Credit with the accompanying documentation required thereby, an Issuing Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent thereof. No later than 2:00 p.m. (Houston, Texas, time) on the date of any payment to be made by the applicable Issuing Lender under a Letter of Credit, the Borrowers agree to pay to such Issuing Lender an amount equal to any amount paid by such Issuing Lender under or in respect of such Letter of Credit. In the event an Issuing Lender makes a payment pursuant to a request for draw presented under a Letter of Credit and such payment is not promptly reimbursed by the Borrowers as required herein, such Issuing Lender shall give notice of such payment to the Administrative Agent. In such event, the Borrower
Reimbursements for Letters of Credit; Funding of Participations
 
Representative shall be deemed to have requested a Borrowing consisting of Base Rate Advances (notwithstanding any minimum size or increment limitations on individual Revolving Advances). Each Revolving Lender (including the Revolving Lender acting as an Issuing Lender) shall, upon notice from the Administrative Agent that the Borrower Representative has requested or is deemed to have requested a Revolving Advance pursuant to Section 2.5 and regardless of whether such notice complies with Section 2.5, make in Same Day Funds available to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Issuing Lender in an amount equal to such Revolving Lender's Applicable Percentage of the amount of such Revolving Advance not later than 1:00 p.m. (Houston, Texas, time) on the Business Day specified in such notice by the Administrative Agent, whereupon each Revolving Lender that so makes Same Day Funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Advance to the Borrowers in such amount. If for any reason any payment pursuant to a request for draw presented under a Letter of Credit is not refinanced by a Borrowing in accordance with this Section 2.3(d), the Issuing Lender shall be deemed to have requested that each of the applicable Revolving Lenders fund its risk participation in the relevant Letter of Credit Obligations and each such Revolving Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Issuing Lender pursuant to this Section 2.3(d) shall be deemed payment in respect of such participation. The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the applicable Issuing Lender. If any such Revolving Lender shall not have so made such Revolving Advance or funding of its risk participation available to the Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section 2.3, such Lender agrees to pay interest thereon for each day from such date until the date such amount is paid at the lesser of (A) the Overnight Rate for such day for the first three days and thereafter the interest rate applicable to such Base Rate Advances and (B) the Maximum Rate. The Borrowers hereby unconditionally and irrevocably authorize, empower, and direct the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to record and otherwise treat each payment under a Letter of Credit not immediately reimbursed by the Borrowers as a Borrowing comprised of Base Rate Advances to the Borrowers.
(e) . Upon the date of the issuance or increase of a Letter of Credit (including the deemed issuance of the Existing Letters of Credit), the applicable Issuing Lender shall be deemed to have sold to each Revolving Lender and each Revolving Lender shall have been deemed to have purchased from such Issuing Lender a participation in the related Letter of Credit Obligations equal to such Revolving Lender's Applicable Percentage at such date and such sale and purchase shall otherwise be in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. The Issuing Lender shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent and the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each such participant Revolving Lender by telex, telephone, or telecopy of each Letter of Credit issued or increased and the actual dollar amount of such Revolving Lender's participation in such Letter of Credit. Each Revolving Lender's obligation to purchase participating interests pursuant to this Section and to reimburse the Issuing Lenders for such Revolving Lender's Applicable Percentage of any payment under a Letter of Credit by an Issuing Lender not reimbursed in full by the Borrowers shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (i) any of the circumstances described in paragraph (f) below, (ii) the occurrence and continuance of a Default, (iii) an adverse change in the financial condition of any Credit Party, (iv) any failure to meet the conditions in Section 3.2 or (v) any other circumstance, happening or event whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, except for any such circumstance, happening or event constituting or arising from gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of such Issuing Lender.
Participations
(f) . The obligations of each Borrower under this Agreement in respect of each Letter of Credit shall be unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under all circumstances, notwithstanding the following circumstances:
Obligations Unconditional
(i) any lack of validity or enforceability of any Letter of Credit Documents or any other Credit Document;
 
(ii) any amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from any Letter of Credit Document or any other Credit Document;
(iii) the existence of any claim, counterclaim, set-off, defense or other right which any Credit Party, any Subsidiary thereof or any other Person may have at any time against any beneficiary or transferee of such Letter of Credit (or any Persons for whom any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), any Issuing Lender, any Lender or any other Person, whether in connection with this Agreement, the Transactions or in any Letter of Credit Documents or any unrelated transaction;
(iv) any draft, demand, certificate, statement or any other document presented under such Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect to the extent any Issuing Lender would not be liable therefor pursuant to the following paragraph (h);
(v) any loss or delay in the transmission or otherwise of any document required in order to make a drawing under such Letter of Credit;
(vi) any payment by an Issuing Lender under such Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that does not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit; or any payment made by an Issuing Lender under such Letter of Credit to any Person purporting to be a trustee in bankruptcy, debtor-in-possession, assignee for the benefit of creditors, liquidator, receiver or other representative of or successor to any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit, including any arising in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law; or
(vii) any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing;
provided, however, that nothing contained in this paragraph (f) shall be deemed to constitute a waiver of any remedies of the Borrowers in connection with the Letters of Credit, including those specified in Section 2.3(h).
(g) .
Cash Collateralization
(i) The Borrowers shall deposit into the Cash Collateral Account in accordance with paragraph (i) below cash in an amount equal to 103% of the Letter of Credit Exposure of all outstanding Letters of Credit, if the Revolving Commitments are terminated pursuant to Section 2.1(c) or Article VII, on the date of such termination.
(ii) If at any time that there shall exist a Defaulting Lender or Potential Defaulting Lender, promptly upon the request of the Administrative Agent or an Issuing Lender, the Borrowers shall deliver to the Administrative Agent Cash Collateral in an amount equal to the Fronting Exposure at the time (determined for the avoidance of doubt, after giving effect to Section 2.17(a)(iv) and any Cash Collateral provided by any Defaulting Lender).
(h) . Each Borrower assumes all risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee of any Letter of Credit with respect to its or any Credit Party's use of such Letter of Credit. Neither an Issuing Lender nor any of its respective officers or directors shall be liable or responsible for:
Liability of Issuing Lenders
(i) the use which may be made of any Letter of Credit or any acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee in connection therewith;
 
(ii) the validity, sufficiency or genuineness of documents, or of any endorsement thereon, even if such documents should prove to be in any or all respects invalid, insufficient, fraudulent or forged; or
(iii) any other circumstances whatsoever in making or failing to make payment under any Letter of Credit (),
INCLUDING SUCH ISSUING LENDER'S OWN NEGLIGENCE
except that a Borrower shall have a claim against an Issuing Lender, and such Issuing Lender shall be liable to, and shall promptly pay to, such Borrower, to the extent of any direct, as opposed to consequential, damages suffered by such Borrower which such Borrower proves were caused by (A) such Issuing Lender's willful misconduct or gross negligence in determining whether documents presented under a Letter of Credit comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit or (B) such Issuing Lender's willful failure to make lawful payment under any Letter of Credit after the presentation to it of a draft and certificate strictly complying with the terms and conditions of such Letter of Credit. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, an Issuing Lender may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary.
(i) .
Cash Collateral Account
(i) If the Borrowers are required to deposit funds in the Cash Collateral Account pursuant to the terms hereof, then the Borrowers and the Administrative Agent shall establish the Cash Collateral Account and the Borrowers shall execute any documents and agreements, including the Administrative Agent's standard form assignment of deposit accounts, that the Administrative Agent requests in connection therewith to establish the Cash Collateral Account and grant the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Issuing Lenders a first priority security interest in such account and the funds therein and giving the Administrative Agent "control" over the Cash Collateral Account as such term is defined in the applicable Uniform Commercial Code. Each Borrower hereby pledges to the Administrative Agent and grants the Administrative Agent a security interest in the Cash Collateral Account, whenever established, all funds held in the Cash Collateral Account from time to time, and all proceeds thereof as security for the payment of the Letter of Credit Obligations. Except as provided in Section 2.3(i)(ii) below, the Borrowers shall have no access and no rights of withdrawal from the Cash Collateral Account.
(ii) Funds held in the Cash Collateral Accounts shall be held as cash collateral for obligations with respect to Letters of Credit. Such funds shall be promptly applied by the Administrative Agent at the request of an Issuing Lender to any reimbursement or other obligations under the applicable Letters of Credit that exist or occur. To the extent that any surplus funds are held in the Cash Collateral Account above the Letter of Credit Exposure or Fronting Exposure during the existence of an Event of Default the Administrative Agent may (A) hold such surplus funds in the Cash Collateral Account as cash collateral for the Obligations or (B) apply such surplus funds to any Obligations in any manner directed by the Majority Lenders. If no Event of Default exists, the Administrative Agent shall immediately release to the Borrowers at the Borrower Representative's written request (1) any funds held in the Cash Collateral Account in excess of 103% of the then existing Letter of Credit Exposure or (ii) any Cash Collateral provided to reduce Fronting Exposure promptly following the elimination of such applicable Fronting Exposure (including by any Defaulting Lender ceasing to be a Defaulting Lender or ceasing to be a Revolving Lender).
 
(iii) The Administrative Agent shall invest the funds in the Cash Collateral Account in an interest-bearing account or other investment approved by the Borrower Representative. The Administrative Agent shall exercise reasonable care in the custody and preservation of any funds held in the Cash Collateral Account and shall be deemed to have exercised such care if such funds are accorded treatment substantially equivalent to that which the Administrative Agent accords its own property or in accordance with the Borrower Representative's instructions or as otherwise approved by the Borrower Representative, it being understood that the Administrative Agent shall not have any responsibility for taking any necessary steps to preserve rights against any parties with respect to any such funds.
(j) . Notwithstanding that a Letter of Credit issued or outstanding hereunder is in support of any obligations of, or is for the account of, a Subsidiary of any Borrower, the Borrowers shall be obligated to reimburse each Issuing Lender hereunder for any and all drawings under such Letter of Credit issued (or deemed issued) hereunder. The Borrowers hereby acknowledge that the issuance of Letters of Credit for the account of any Subsidiary inures to the benefit of the Borrowers, and that the Borrowers' businesses derive substantial benefits from the businesses of such Subsidiaries.
Letters of Credit Issued for Subsidiaries
(k) . The Issuing Bank, the Revolving Lenders and the Borrowers agree that effective as of the Closing Date, the Existing Letters of Credit shall be deemed to have been issued and maintained under, and to be governed by the terms and conditions of, this Agreement.
Existing Letters of Credit
2.4 .
Swingline Advances
(a) . On the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, the Swingline Lender may, in its sole and absolute discretion, from time-to-time on any Business Day from the Closing Date until the last Business Day occurring before the Revolving Credit Maturity Date, make Swingline Advances to the Borrowers in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed the Swingline Sublimit at any time, provided that (i) after giving effect to such Swingline Advance, the Revolving Outstanding Amount shall not exceed the aggregate Revolving Commitments in effect at such time, (ii) no Swingline Advance may mature after the Revolving Credit Maturity Date, and (iii) no Swingline Advance shall be made by the Swingline Lender if the conditions set forth in Section 3.2 have not been met as of the date of such Swingline Advance. The Borrowers agree that the giving of the applicable Notice of Borrowing and the acceptance by the Borrowers of the proceeds of such Swingline Advance shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrowers that on the date of such Swingline Advance the conditions set forth in Section 3.2 have been met. Immediately upon the making of a Swingline Advance, each Revolving Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the Swingline Lender a risk participation in such Swingline Advance in an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of such Swingline Advance.
The Swingline Facility
(b) . The indebtedness of the Borrowers to the Swingline Lender resulting from Swingline Advances shall be evidenced as set forth in Section 2.2.
Evidence of Indebtedness
(c) . Within the limits expressed in this Agreement, amounts advanced pursuant to Section 2.4(a) may from time to time be borrowed, prepaid without penalty, and reborrowed at the sole and absolute discretion of the Swingline Lender. If the amount of aggregate outstanding amount of Swingline Advances ever exceeds the Swingline Sublimit, the Borrowers shall, upon receipt of written notice of such condition from the Swingline Lender and to the extent of such excess, prepay to the Swingline Lender outstanding principal of the Swingline Advances such that such excess is eliminated.
Prepayment
 
(d) .
Refinancing of Swingline Advances
(i) The Swingline Lender at any time in its sole and absolute discretion may request, on behalf of the Borrowers (which hereby irrevocably authorize the Swingline Lender to so request on their behalf), that each Revolving Lender make a Revolving Advance consisting of Base Rate Advances in an amount equal to such Revolving Lender's Applicable Percentage of the amount of Swingline Advances then outstanding. Such request shall be made in writing (which written request shall be deemed to be a Notice of Borrowing for purposes hereof), without regard to the minimum and multiples specified in Section 2.5(c) for the principal amount of Borrowings but subject to the unutilized portion of the Revolving Commitments and the conditions set forth in Section 3.2. The Swingline Lender shall furnish the Borrower Representative with a copy of the applicable Notice of Borrowing promptly after delivering such notice to the Administrative Agent. Regardless of whether the request for such Revolving Advance complies with Section 2.5, each Revolving Lender shall make an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the amount specified in such Notice of Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent in Same Day Funds for the account of the Swingline Lender at the Administrative Agent's Lending Office not later than 1:00 p.m. (Houston, Texas, time) on the day specified in such Notice of Borrowing, whereupon, subject to Section 2.4(d)(iii), each Revolving Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Revolving Advance consisting of Base Rate Advances to the Borrowers in such amount. The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the Swingline Lender.
(ii) If for any reason any Swingline Advance cannot be refinanced by such a Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.4(d)(i), the applicable Notice of Borrowing submitted by the Swingline Lender as set forth herein shall be deemed to be a request by the Swingline Lender that each of the applicable Revolving Lenders fund its risk participation in the relevant Swingline Advances and each such Revolving Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swingline Lender pursuant to Section 2.4(d)(i) shall be deemed payment in respect of such participation.
(iii) If any Revolving Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swingline Lender any amount required to be paid by such Revolving Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.4(d) by the time specified in Section 2.4(d)(i), the Swingline Lender shall be entitled to recover from such Revolving Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the Swingline Lender at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect. A certificate of the Swingline Lender submitted to any Revolving Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this clause (iii) shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
(iv) Each Revolving Lender's obligation to make Revolving Advances or to purchase and fund risk participations in Swingline Advances pursuant to this Section 2.4(d) shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Revolving Lender may have against the Swingline Lender, any Borrower, or any other Person for any reason whatsoever, (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing; provided, however, that each Lender's obligation
 
to make Advances pursuant to Section 2.4(d)(i) (but not its obligation to purchase and fund risk participations in Swingline Advances) is subject to the conditions set forth in Section 3.2. No such funding of risk participations shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Borrowers to repay the Swingline Advances, together with interest as provided herein.
(e) .
Repayment of Participations
(i) At any time after any Revolving Lender has purchased and funded a risk participation in a Swingline Advance, if the Swingline Lender receives any payment on account of such Swingline Advance, the Swingline Lender will distribute to such Revolving Lender its Applicable Percentage of such payment (appropriately adjusted, in the case of interest payments, to reflect the period of time during which such Revolving Lender's risk participation was funded) in the same funds as those received by the Swingline Lender.
(ii) If any payment received by the Swingline Lender in respect of principal or interest on any Swingline Advance is required to be returned by the Swingline Lender under any of the circumstances described in Section 10.12 (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Swingline Lender in its discretion), each Revolving Lender shall pay to the Swingline Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned, at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate. The Administrative Agent will make such demand upon the request of the Swingline Lender. The obligations of the Revolving Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
(f) . The Swingline Lender shall be responsible for invoicing the Borrower Representative for interest on the Swingline Advances. Until each Lender funds its Revolving Advances or risk participation pursuant to this Section to refinance such Revolving Lender's Applicable Percentage of the applicable Swingline Advances, interest in respect of such Applicable Percentage shall be solely for the account of the Swingline Lender.
Interest for Account of Swingline Lender
(g) . The Borrowers shall make all payments of principal and interest in respect of the Swingline Advances directly to the Swingline Lender.
Payments Directly to Swingline Lender
(h) . Except as provided in the clause (c) above, each request for a Swingline Advance shall be made pursuant to telephone notice to the Swingline Lender given no later than 1:00 p.m. (Houston, Texas time) on the date of the proposed Swingline Advance, promptly confirmed by a completed and executed Notice of Borrowing facsimiled to the Administrative Agent and the Swingline Lender. The Swingline Lender will promptly make such Swingline Advance available to the applicable Borrower at its account with the Administrative Agent.
Method of Borrowing
(i) . Notwithstanding any terms to the contrary contained herein, the swingline facility provided herein (A) is an uncommitted facility and the Swingline Lender may, but shall not be obligated to, make Swingline Advances, and (ii) may be terminated at any time by the Swingline Lender upon written notice by the Swingline Lender to the Borrower Representative.
Discretionary Nature of the Swing Line Facility
2.5 .
Borrowings; Procedures and Limitations
(a) . Each Borrowing shall be made pursuant to a Notice of Borrowing and given by the Borrower Representative to the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 p.m. (Houston, Texas time) on the third Business Day before the date of the proposed Borrowing in the
Notice of Borrowings
 
case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurodollar Advances, and by the Borrower Representative to the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (Houston, Texas time) on the same day as the date of the proposed Borrowing in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Base Rate Advances. The Administrative Agent shall give each applicable Lender prompt notice on the day of receipt of timely Notice of Borrowing of such proposed Borrowing by facsimile. Each Notice of Borrowing shall be by facsimile specifying the (i) requested date of such Borrowing (which shall be a Business Day), (ii) requested Type and Class of Advances comprising such Borrowing, (iii) aggregate amount of such Borrowing, and (iv) if such Borrowing is to be comprised of Eurodollar Advances, the Interest Period for such Advances. In the case of a proposed Borrowing comprised of Eurodollar Advances, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each applicable Lender of the applicable interest rate under Section 2.9, as applicable. Each Lender shall before 11:00 a.m. (Houston, Texas time) on the date of the proposed Borrowing in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Eurodollar Advances, and before 1:00 p.m. (Houston, Texas time) on the date of the proposed Borrowing in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Base Rate Advances, make available for the account of its Lending Office to the Administrative Agent at its address referred to in Section 10.7, or such other location as the Administrative Agent may specify by notice to the Lenders, in Same Day Funds, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Borrowing. Promptly upon the Administrative Agent's receipt of such funds and provided that the applicable conditions set forth in Article III have been satisfied, the Administrative Agent will make such funds available to the applicable Borrower at its account with the Administrative Agent.
(b) . In order to elect to Convert or Continue Revolving Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing under this Section, the Borrower Representative shall deliver an irrevocable Notice of Conversion or Continuation to the Administrative Agent at the Administrative Agent's office no later than 2:00 p.m. (Houston, Texas time) (i) at least one Business Day in advance of the proposed Conversion date in the case of a Conversion of such Revolving Advances to Base Rate Advances, and (ii) at least three Business Days in advance of the proposed Conversion or Continuation date in the case of a Conversion to, or a Continuation of, Eurodollar Advances. Each such Notice of Conversion or Continuation shall be in writing or facsimile, specifying (A) the requested Conversion or Continuation date (which shall be a Business Day), (B) the Borrowing amount and Type of the Revolving Advances to be Converted or Continued, (C) whether a Conversion or Continuation is requested, and if a Conversion, into what Type of Revolving Advances, and (D) in the case of a Conversion to, or a Continuation of, Eurodollar Advances, the requested Interest Period. Promptly after receipt of a Notice of Conversion or Continuation under this paragraph, the Administrative Agent shall provide each applicable Lender with a copy thereof and, in the case of a Conversion to or a Continuation of Eurodollar Advances, notify each applicable Lender of the applicable interest rate under Section 2.9 as applicable. For purposes other than the conditions set forth in Section 3.2, the portion of Revolving Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing that are Converted to Advances of another Type shall constitute a new Borrowing.
Conversions and Continuations
(c) . Notwithstanding anything in paragraphs (a) and (b) above:
Certain Limitations
(i) Each Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount not less than $3,000,000 and in integral multiples of $1,000,000 in excess thereof in case of Eurodollar Advances and in an aggregate amount not less than $500,000 and in integral multiples of $100,000 in excess thereof in case of Base Rate Advances.
(ii) [Reserved]
(iii) Each Borrowing shall (A) consist of Advances of the same Type and Class made, Converted or continued on the same day by the Lenders according to their Applicable Percentage, and (B) denominated only in Dollars.
 
(iv) At no time shall there be more than eight Interest Periods applicable to outstanding Eurodollar Advances.
(v) The Borrowers may not select Eurodollar Advances for any Borrowing to be made, Converted or Continued if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.
(vi) If any Lender shall, at least one Business Day prior to the requested date of any Borrowing comprised of Eurodollar Advances, notify the Administrative Agent and the Borrowers that the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any Legal Requirement makes it unlawful, or that any central bank or other Governmental Authority asserts that it is unlawful, for such Lender or its Lending Office to perform its obligations under this Agreement to make Eurodollar Advances or to fund or maintain Eurodollar Advances, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or take deposits of, Dollars in the applicable interbank market, then (1) such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the amount of such Borrowing shall be made as a Base Rate Advance of such Lender, (2) such Base Rate Advance shall be considered part of the same Borrowing and interest on such Base Rate Advance shall be due and payable at the same time that interest on the Eurodollar Advances comprising the remainder of such Borrowing shall be due and payable, and (3) any obligation of such Lender to make, Continue, or Convert to, Eurodollar Advances, including in connection with such requested Borrowing, shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrowers that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist.
(vii) If the Administrative Agent is unable to determine the Eurodollar Rate for Eurodollar Advances comprising any requested Borrowing, the right of the Borrowers to select Eurodollar Advances for such Borrowing or for any subsequent Borrowing shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower Representative and the applicable Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist, and each Advance comprising such Borrowing shall be made as a Base Rate Advance.
(viii) If the Majority Lenders shall, at least one Business Day before the date of any requested Borrowing, notify the Administrative Agent that (A) the Eurodollar Rate for Eurodollar Advances comprising such Borrowing will not adequately reflect the cost to such Lenders of making or funding their respective Eurodollar Advances, as the case may be, for such Borrowing, or (B) deposits are not being offered to banks in the applicable offshore interbank market for Dollars for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurodollar Advance, then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Borrower Representative and the Lenders and the right of the Borrowers to select Eurodollar Advances for such Borrowing or for any subsequent Borrowing shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower Representative and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist, and each Advance comprising such Borrowing shall be made as a Base Rate Advance.
(ix) If a Borrower shall fail to select the duration or Continuation of any Interest Period for any Eurodollar Advance in accordance with the provisions contained in the definition of "Interest Period" in Section 1.1 and paragraph (a) or (b) above, the Administrative Agent will forthwith so notify the Borrower Representative and the applicable Lenders and such affected Advances will be made available to the applicable Borrower on the date of such Borrowing as Eurodollar Advances with a one month Interest Period or, if such affected Advances are existing Advances, will be Converted into Base Rate Advances at the end of Interest Period then in effect.
 
(x) Swingline Advances may not be Converted or Continued.
(d) . Each Notice of Borrowing and Notice of Conversion or Continuation shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrowers.
Notices Irrevocable
(e) . The failure of any Lender to make the Advance to be made by it as part of any Borrowing shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation, if any, to make its Advance on the date of such Borrowing. No Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Advance to be made by such other Lender on the date of any Borrowing.
Lender Obligations Several
(f) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing of Eurodollar Advances, or prior to the time of any Borrowing of Base Rate Advances, that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available in accordance with and at the time required in Section 2.5 and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the applicable Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrowers severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in Same Day Funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the applicable Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the Overnight Rate and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by a Borrower, the interest rate applicable to the requested Borrowing. If a Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the applicable Borrower the amount of such interest paid by such Borrower for such period. If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Advance included in such Borrowing. Any payment by the Borrowers shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrowers may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent. A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender, the Borrower Representative or any Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this subsection (f) shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
Funding by Lenders; Administrative Agent' Reliance
2.6 . No Borrower shall have any right to prepay any principal amount of any Advance except as provided in this Section 2.6.
Prepayments
(a) . The Borrowers may elect to prepay any Borrowing, in whole or in part, without penalty or premium except as set forth in Section 2.11 and after giving, through the Borrower Representative, by 2:00 p.m. (Houston, Texas time) (i) in the case of Eurodollar Advances, at least three Business Days' or (ii) in case of Base Rate Advances, one Business Day's prior written notice to the Administrative Agent stating the proposed date and aggregate principal amount of such prepayment. If any such notice is given, the Borrowers shall prepay Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing in whole or ratably in part in an aggregate principal amount equal to the amount specified in such notice, together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount prepaid in case of Base Rate Advances and amounts, if any, required to be paid pursuant to Section 2.11 as a result of such prepayment being made on such date; provided that each optional partial prepayment of a Borrowing shall be in a minimum amount not less than $3,000,000 and in multiple integrals of $1,000,000 in excess thereof in case of Eurodollar Advances and in an aggregate amount not less than $500,000 and in integral multiples of $100,000 in excess thereof in case of Base Rate Advances.
Optional
 
(b) .
Mandatory
(i) On any date that the Revolving Outstanding Amount exceeds the aggregate amount of Revolving Commitments, the Borrowers shall, within one Business Day, to the extent of such excess, first prepay to the Swingline Lender the outstanding principal amount of the Swingline Advances, second, prepay to the Revolving Lenders on a pro rata basis the outstanding principal amount of the Revolving Advances and third, make deposits into the Cash Collateral Account to provide cash collateral in the amount of such excess for the Letter of Credit Exposure.
(ii) If a Revolving Facility Increase is effected as permitted under Section 2.1(d)(i), the Borrowers shall prepay any Revolving Advances outstanding on such Increase Date to the extent necessary to keep the outstanding Revolving Advances ratable to reflect the revised Applicable Percentages arising from such Revolving Facility Increase. Any prepayment made by the Borrowers in accordance with this clause (b)(ii) may be made with the proceeds of Revolving Advances made by all the Revolving Lenders in connection the Revolving Facility Increase occurring simultaneously with the prepayment.
(c) . Each prepayment pursuant to this Section 2.6 shall be accompanied by accrued interest on the amount prepaid to the date of such prepayment and amounts, if any, required to be paid pursuant to Section 2.11 as a result of such prepayment being made on such date.
Interest; Costs
2.7 .
Repayment
(a) . The Borrowers hereby unconditionally promise to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of and ratable benefit of each Revolving Lender the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Revolving Advances on the Revolving Credit Maturity Date.
Revolving Advances
(b) . The Borrowers hereby unconditionally promise to pay to the Swingline Lender (i) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Swingline Advances on each Swingline Payment Date, and (ii) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Swingline Advances outstanding on the Revolving Credit Maturity Date.
Swingline Advances
2.8 .
Fees
(a) . The Borrowers agree to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Revolving Lender (subject to Section 2.17(a)(iii)) a Commitment Fee on the average daily amount by which such Revolving Lender's Revolving Commitment exceeds such Revolving Lender's outstanding Revolving Advances plus such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Letter of Credit Exposure at the per annum rate equal to the Applicable Margin for Commitment Fees for such period. The Commitment Fee is due quarterly in arrears on March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 of each year commencing on June 30, 2011, and on the Revolving Credit Maturity Date. For purposes of this Section 2.8(a) only, amounts advanced as Swingline Advances shall not reduce the amount of the unused Revolving Commitment.
Commitment Fees
(b) . The Borrowers agree to pay the following (subject to Section 2.17(a)(iii)): (i) to the Administrative Agent for the pro rata benefit of the Revolving Lenders a per annum letter of credit fee for each Letter of Credit issued hereunder in an amount equal to the Applicable Margin for Borrowings consisting of Eurodollar Advances on the face amount of such Letter of Credit for the period such Letter of Credit is outstanding, which fee shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 of each year, and on the Revolving Credit Maturity Date; provided, however, that any letter of credit fees otherwise payable for the account of a Defaulting Lender with respect to any Letter of Credit shall be payable, to the maximum extent
Fees for Letters of Credit
 
permitted by applicable law, to the other Revolving Lenders in accordance with the upward adjustments in their respective Applicable Percentage allocable to such Letter of Credit pursuant to Section 2.17(a)(iv), with the balance of such fee, if any, being retained by the applicable Borrower for its own account or, to the extent any Fronting Exposure shall then be outstanding, being payable to the applicable Issuing Lender for its own account to the extent such fee relates to the amount of such Fronting Exposure; (ii) to the applicable Issuing Lender, a fronting fee for each Letter of Credit equal to the greater of (A) 0.125% per annum on the face amount of such Letter of Credit (and in the case of an increase, on the amount of such increase) and (B) $600.00, which fee shall be due and payable annually in advance on the date of the issuance or increase of each Letter of Credit and on the earlier of each annual anniversary thereafter or the Revolving Credit Maturity Date; and (iii) to the applicable Issuing Lender such other usual and customary fees associated with any transfers, amendments, drawings, negotiations or reissuances of any Letter of Credit, which fees shall be due and payable as requested by such Issuing Lender in accordance with such Issuing Lender's then current fee policy. No Borrower shall have the right to any refund of letter of credit fees previously paid by such Borrower, including any refund claimed because such Borrower cancels any Letter of Credit prior to its expiration date.
(c) . The Borrowers agree to pay the fees to the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers as set forth in the Fee Letter.
Other Fees
(d) . All such fees shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available Dollars to the Administrative Agent for distribution, if and as appropriate, among the Lenders, except that the fees payable pursuant to Section 2.6(b)(ii) shall be paid directly to the applicable Issuing Lender. Once paid, absent manifest error, none of these fees shall be refundable under any circumstances.
Generally
2.9 .
Interest
(a) .
Revolving Credit Facility
(i) . Subject to the provisions of clause (c) below, each Borrowing consisting of Base Rate Advances shall bear interest at the Adjusted Base Rate in effect from time to time plus the Applicable Margin for Base Rate Advances under the Revolving Credit Facility for such period. The Borrowers shall pay to Administrative Agent for the ratable benefit of each Revolving Lender all accrued but unpaid interest on such Revolving Lender's Base Rate Advances on each March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 commencing on June 30, 2011, and on the Revolving Credit Maturity Date.
Base Rate Advances
(ii) . Subject to the provisions of clause (c) below, each Borrowing consisting of Eurodollar Advances shall bear interest during its Interest Period equal to at all times the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period plus the Applicable Margin for Eurodollar Advances under the Revolving Credit Facility for such period. The Borrowers shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the ratable benefit of each Revolving Lender all accrued but unpaid interest on each of such Revolving Lender's Eurodollar Advances on the last day of the Interest Period therefor (provided that for Eurodollar Advances with six month Interest Periods, accrued but unpaid interest shall also be due on the day three months from the first day of such Interest Period), on the date any Eurodollar Advance is repaid in full, and on the Revolving Credit Maturity Date.
Eurodollar Advances
(b) . Subject to the provisions of clause (d) below, at the Borrowers' option, Swingline Advances shall bear interest at either (i) the Adjusted Base Rate in effect from time to time plus the Applicable Margin for Base Rate Advances under the Revolving Credit Facility or (ii) the Eurodollar Rate in effect from time to time (or if any such day is not a Business Day, the immediately
Swingline Advances
 
preceding Business Day) for a deposit in Dollars with a maturity of one month plus the Applicable Margin for Eurodollar Advances under the Revolving Credit Facility. The Borrowers shall pay to the Swingline Lender for its own account subject to Section 2.4(f) all accrued but unpaid interest on each Swingline Advance on each Swingline Payment Date, on the date any Swingline Advance is repaid (or refinanced) in full, and on the Revolving Credit Maturity Date.
(c) . If, at any time, (i) any principal of or interest on any Advance or any fee, reimbursement of a drawing under a Letter of Credit or other amount payable by the Borrowers hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, (ii) any Event of Default under Section 7.1(f) occurs and is continuing or (iii) any Event of Default is continuing (except as set forth in clauses (i) and (ii) above) upon the request of the Majority Lenders, then the Borrowers shall pay interest on the principal amount of all outstanding Obligations hereunder at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Legal Requirements. Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
Default Interest
2.10 . If any Lender shall notify the Borrower Representative that the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation makes it unlawful, or that any central bank or other governmental authority asserts that it is unlawful, for such Lender or its Lending Office to perform its obligations under this Agreement to make, maintain, or fund any Eurodollar Advances of such Lender then outstanding hereunder, (a) the Borrowers shall, no later than 11:00 a.m. (Houston, Texas, time) (i) if not prohibited by law, on the last day of the Interest Period for each outstanding Eurodollar Advance, or (ii) if required by such notice, on the second Business Day following its receipt of such notice, prepay all of the Eurodollar Advances of such Lender then outstanding, together with accrued interest on the principal amount prepaid to the date of such prepayment and amounts, if any, required to be paid pursuant to Section 2.11 as a result of such prepayment being made on such date, (b) such Lender shall simultaneously make a Base Rate Advance to the Borrowers on such date in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Eurodollar Advances prepaid to such Lender, and (c) the right of the Borrowers to select Eurodollar Advances from such Lender for any subsequent Borrowing shall be suspended until such Lender shall notify the Borrower Representative that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.
Illegality
2.11 .
Breakage Costs
(a) . In the case of any Borrowing which the related Notice of Borrowing specifies is to be comprised of Eurodollar Advances, each Borrower hereby indemnifies each Lender against any loss, out-of-pocket cost, or expense incurred by such Lender as a result of any failure to fulfill on or before the date specified in such Notice of Borrowing for such Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, including, without limitation, any loss (excluding any loss of anticipated profits), cost, or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or redeployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the Eurodollar Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Borrowing when such Eurodollar Advance as a result of such failure, is not made on such date.
Funding Losses
(b) . If (i) any payment of principal of any Eurodollar Advance is made other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance as a result of any prepayment, payment pursuant to Section 2.6, the acceleration of the maturity of the Obligations, or for any other reason, (ii) the Borrowers fail to make a principal or interest payment with respect to any Eurodollar Advance on the date such payment is due and payable, or (iii) any failure by the Borrowers to make payment of any Advance or reimbursement of drawing under any Letter of Credit (or interest due thereon) on its scheduled due date; the Borrowers shall, within 10 days of any written demand sent by the Administrative Agent on behalf of a Lender to the Borrower Representative, pay to the Administrative
Prepayment Losses
 
Agent for the benefit of such Lender any amounts determined in good faith by such Lender to be required to compensate such Lender for any additional losses, out-of-pocket costs, or expenses which it may reasonably incur as a result of such payment or nonpayment, including, without limitation, any loss (excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost, or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any Lender to fund or maintain such Advance.
(c) . If any assignment of any Eurodollar Advance is made other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan as a result of a request by the Borrowers pursuant to clause (c) of Section 2.17, the Borrowers shall, within three (3) Business Days of any written demand sent by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Lender that is the assignee thereof to the Borrower Representative, pay to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of such Lender any amounts determined by such Lender to be required to compensate such Lender for any additional losses, out-of-pocket costs, or expenses (other than any anticipated lost profits) which it may reasonably incur as a result of such assignment, including, without limitation, any such loss, cost, or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund or maintain such Loan.
Assignment Losses
(d) . A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section 2.11 shall be delivered to the Borrower Representative and the Administrative Agent and shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Certificate
2.12 .
Increased Costs
(a) . If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs Generally
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except any reserve requirement contemplated by Section 2.12(e)) or any Issuing Lender;
(ii) subject any Lender or Issuing Lender to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement, any Letter of Credit, any participation in a Letter of Credit, any Eurodollar Advance made by it, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender or Issuing Lender in respect thereof (except for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes covered by Section 2.14 and the imposition of, or any change in the rate of, any Excluded Tax payable by such Lender or Issuing Lender); or
(iii) impose on any Lender or Issuing Lender or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Advances made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Advance (or of maintaining its obligation to make or accept and purchase any such Advance), or to increase the cost to such Lender or Issuing Lender of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit (or of maintaining its obligation to participate in or to issue any Letter of Credit), or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or Issuing Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender or Issuing Lender, the Borrowers will pay to such Lender or Issuing Lender, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or Issuing Lender, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
 
(b) . If any Lender or Issuing Lender determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or Issuing Lender or any lending office of such Lender or such Lender's or Issuing Lender's holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or Issuing Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or Issuing Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Revolving Commitments of such Lender or the Advances made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Lender, to a level below that which such Lender or Issuing Lender or such Lender's or Issuing Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or Issuing Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's or Issuing Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrowers will pay to such Lender or Issuing Lender, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or Issuing Lender or such Lender's or Issuing Lender's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
Capital Adequacy
(c) . A certificate of a Lender or Issuing Lender setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or Issuing Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section and delivered to the Borrowers shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrowers shall pay such Lender or Issuing Lender, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Certificates for Reimbursement
(d) . Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or Issuing Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or Issuing Lender's right to demand such compensation; provided that the Borrowers shall not be required to compensate a Lender or an Issuing Lender pursuant to this Section for any reserve, tax, lost compensation, increased costs or reductions suffered or incurred more than 180 days prior to the date that such Lender or the Issuing Lender, as the case may be, notifies the Borrowers of the cause giving rise to such reserve, tax, lost compensation, increased costs or reductions and of such lender's or the Issuing Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 180 day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
Delay in Requests
(e) . The Borrowers shall pay to each Lender Party, (i) as long as such Lender Party shall be required to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurodollar funds or deposits (currently known as Eurocurrency Liabilities), additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurodollar Advance equal to the actual costs of such reserves allocated to such Advance by such Lender Party (as determined by such Lender Party in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error), and (ii) as long as such Lender Party shall be required to comply with any reserve ratio requirement or analogous requirement of any other central banking or financial regulatory authority imposed in respect of the maintenance of the Revolving Commitments or the funding of the Eurodollar Advances, such additional costs (expressed as a percentage per annum and rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest five decimal places) equal to the actual costs allocated to such Revolving Commitments or Advances by such Lender Party (as determined by such Lender Party in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error), which in each case, shall be due and payable on each date on which interest is payable on such Advance.
Additional Reserve Requirement
2.13 .
Payments and Computations
(a) . All payments to be made by the Borrowers shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff. Except as otherwise
Payments
 
expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrowers hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed in Dollars and in Same Day Funds. Subject to Section 2.5(c), each payment of any Advance pursuant to this Section or any other provision of this Agreement shall be made in a manner such that all Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing are paid in whole or ratably in part.
(b) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrowers prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable Lenders or Issuing Lender hereunder that the Borrowers will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrowers have made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or the applicable Issuing Lender, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if the Borrowers have not in fact made such payment, then each of the applicable Lenders or Issuing Lender, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or Issuing Lender, in Same Day Funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the Overnight Rate. A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or the Borrowers with respect to any amount owing under this subsection (b) shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
Payments by Borrowers; Presumptions by Administrative Agent
(c) . The Borrowers shall make each payment of any amount under this Agreement and under any other Credit Document prior to the time expressly required hereunder (or, if no such time is expressly required, not later than 11:00 a.m. (Houston, Texas time)) on the day when due to the Administrative Agent at the Administrative Agent's address (or such other location as the Administrative Agent shall designate in writing to the Borrowers) in Same Day Funds; provided however that payments specified to be made directly to an Issuing Lender or any other Person, including amounts payable solely to any specific Lender Party pursuant to Sections 2.3, 2.4, 2.8, 2.9, 2.10, 2.11, 2.12, 2.14, and 9.1 but after taking into account payments effected pursuant to Section 2.13(f), shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent may require that any payments due under this Agreement be made in the United States. The Administrative Agent will promptly thereafter, and in any event prior to the close of business on the day any timely payment is made, cause to be distributed like funds relating to the payment of principal, interest or fees ratably in accordance with each Lender's Applicable Percentage to the Lenders for the account of their respective Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of any other amount payable to any Lender to such Lender for the account of its Lending Office, in each case to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Upon receipt of other amounts due solely to the Administrative Agent, Issuing Lender, Swingline Lender, or a specific Lender, the Administrative Agent shall distribute such amounts to the appropriate party to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Payment Procedures
(d) . Whenever any payment shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of interest or fees, as the case may be; provided that if such extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of Eurodollar Advances to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the next preceding Business Day.
Non-Business Day Payments
(e) . All computations of interest based on the Prime Rate shall be made by the Administrative Agent on the basis of a year of 365/366 days and on the basis of a year of 360 days for all other interest and fees, in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day, but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest or fees are payable. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an amount of interest or fees shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
Computations
 
(f) . Each Lender agrees that if it shall, through the exercise of a right of banker's lien, setoff, counterclaim or otherwise against any Borrower or any other Credit Party, obtain payment (voluntary or involuntary) in respect of any Advance or the participations in the Letter of Credit Obligations or in the Swingline Advances held by it, as a result of which the unpaid portion of its Advances shall be proportionately less than the unpaid portion of the Advances or the participations in the Letter of Credit Obligations or in the Swingline Advances held by any other Lender, it shall be deemed simultaneously to have purchased from such other Lender at face value, and shall promptly pay to such other Lender the purchase price for, a participation in the Advances, the participations in the Letter of Credit Obligations and in the Swingline Advances held by it of such other Lender, so that the aggregate unpaid amount of the Advances and participations in Advances, Letter of Credit Obligations and Swingline Advances held by each Lender shall be in the same proportion to the aggregate unpaid amount of all Advances, Letter of Credit Obligations and Swingline Advances then outstanding as the amount of its Advances, and participations in Letter of Credit Obligations and Swingline Advances prior to such exercise of banker's lien, setoff or counterclaim or other event was to the amount of all Advances and participations in Letter of Credit Obligations and Swingline Advances, outstanding prior to such exercise of banker's lien, setoff or counterclaim or other event; provided, however, that if any such purchase or purchases or adjustments shall be made pursuant to this Section 2.13 and the payment giving rise thereto shall thereafter be recovered, such purchase or purchases or adjustments shall be rescinded to the extent of such recovery and the purchase price or prices or adjustment restored without interest. Each Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against each Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of such Borrower in the amount of such participation.
Sharing of Payments, Etc
2.14 .
Taxes
(a) . Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrowers or any Guarantor hereunder or under any other Credit Document shall be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, provided that if any Credit Party shall be required by any Legal Requirement to deduct any Indemnified Taxes (including any Other Taxes) from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the applicable Lender Party receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrowers shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrowers shall timely pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable Legal Requirements.
Payments Free of Taxes
(b) . Without limiting the provisions of the terms set forth in this Section above, the Borrowers shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable Legal Requirements.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrowers
(c) . Each Borrower shall, and does hereby, indemnify each Lender Party, in any case, within 10 days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) paid by a Lender Party and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, except as a result of the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Lender Party, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A
Indemnification by the Borrowers
 
certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrowers by a Lender Party (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender Party, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
(d) . As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrowers to a Governmental Authority, the Borrowers shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of any available receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return (if any) reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Evidence of Payments
(e) .
Status of Lenders
(i) Any Non-US Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of United States withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which a Borrower is resident for tax purposes, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments hereunder or under any other Credit Document shall deliver to the Borrowers (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prior to the Closing Date (or upon becoming a Lender by assignment or participation) and at any time or times prescribed by applicable Legal Requirements or reasonably requested by the Borrowers or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable Legal Requirements as will permit such payments to be made without United States withholding or at a reduced rate of withholding. In addition, any Lender, if requested by the Borrowers or the Administrative Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable Legal Requirements or reasonably requested by the Borrowers or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrowers or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to United States backup withholding or information reporting requirements. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 2.14(e), the completion, execution and submission of such documentation (other than such documentation set forth in Section 2.14(e)(ii)(A), (B), and (C) and Section 2.14(e)(v) below) shall not be required if in any Lender's reasonable judgment such completion, execution or submission would subject such Lender to any material unreimbursed cost or expense or would materially prejudice the legal or commercial position of such Lender.
(ii) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event that a Borrower is resident for tax purposes in the United States, any Non-US Lender shall deliver to the Borrowers and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Non-US Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrowers or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Non-US Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
(A) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
(B) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI,
(C) in the case of a Non-US Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Non-US Lender is not (a) a "bank" within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (b) a "10 percent shareholder" of a Borrower within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (c) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (y) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
 
(D) any other form prescribed by applicable Legal Requirements as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax duly completed together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit the Borrowers to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
(iii) If non-United States or United Kingdom documents or forms are reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent or any Borrower, each Lender agrees to use its reasonable efforts to deliver to the Administrative Agent or such Borrower, such other documents and forms required by any relevant taxing authorities under any Legal Requirement of any other jurisdiction, duly executed and completed by such Lender, as are required under such Legal Requirements to confirm such Lender's entitlement to any available exemption from, or reduction of, applicable withholding taxes in respect of all payments to be made to such Lender outside of the U.S. by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise to establish such Lender's status for withholding tax purposes in such other jurisdiction. Notwithstanding the prior sentence, each Lender shall have no obligation to exercise such reasonable efforts if in the Lender's reasonable judgment the provision, execution or submission of such form or documents would subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or prejudice the legal or commercial position of such Lender.
(iv) Each Lender shall promptly (A) notify the Administrative Agent of any change in circumstances which would modify or render invalid any such claimed exemption or reduction, and (B) take such steps as shall not be materially disadvantageous to it, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, and as may be reasonably necessary (including the re-designation of its Lending Office) to avoid applicable Legal Requirements of the United States from applying which would require the Borrowers to deduct for United States withholding Taxes from amounts payable to such Lender. Additionally, the Borrowers shall promptly deliver to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, as the Administrative Agent or such Lender shall reasonably request, on or prior to the Closing Date, and in a timely fashion thereafter, such United States documents and United States forms required by the United States, duly executed and completed by the Borrowers, as are required to be furnished by such Lender or the Administrative Agent under such United States Legal Requirements in connection with any payment by the Administrative Agent or any Lender of Taxes or Other Taxes, or otherwise in connection with the Credit Documents.
(v) In the case of a Lender that would be subject to withholding tax imposed by FATCA on payments made under this Agreement or any other Credit Document if such Lender fails to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Code, as applicable), such Lender shall deliver to the Borrowers and the Administrative Agent such documentation prescribed by applicable Legal Requirements (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by the Borrowers or the Administrative Agent as may be necessary for the Borrowers or the Administrative Agent to comply with its obligations under FATCA, to determine that such Lender has complied with such Lender's obligations under FATCA, or to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from any such payments.
 
(f) . If any Lender Party determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrowers or with respect to which the Borrowers have paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to the Borrowers an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrowers under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of such Lender Party and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund), provided that the Borrowers, upon the request of such Lender Party, agree to repay the amount paid over to the Borrowers (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to such Lender Party in the event such Lender Party is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This subsection shall not be construed to require any Lender Party to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to the Borrowers or any other Person.
Treatment of Certain Refunds
2.15
United Kingdom Taxes.
(a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Parent or any Guarantor hereunder or under any other Credit Documents shall be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed by the United Kingdom. If any such Credit Party shall be required by any United Kingdom Legal Requirement to deduct any such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all such required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the applicable Lender Party receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the applicable Credit Party shall make such deductions, and (iii) the Credit Party shall timely pay the full amount deducted to the relevant United Kingdom Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable Legal Requirements.
(b) A Lender Party and such Credit Party shall cooperate in completing any procedural formalities necessary (including but only if so requested by a particular Lender, the use of the United Kingdom's double tax treaty passport scheme) for the Borrowers to obtain authorization to make such payment without a deduction for Taxes. Any Lender Party that is a Qualified Treaty Lender shall provide the Parent or the applicable Guarantor upon becoming a party hereto with a copy of a duly executed direction under SI 1970/488 from HM Revenue and Customs granted in connection with an income Tax treaty or pursuant to the HM Revenue and Customers DT Treaty Passport scheme evidencing an exemption or reduction from withholding. Such Credit Party shall take all actions required to notify HM Revenue and Customs of such Lender Party's direction or DT Treaty Passport scheme number and that it has made a "passported loan". Should the Parent or any Guarantor or other Credit Party be required to make a payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes pursuant to Section 2.15(a) of this Agreement, then the applicable Lender Party shall (i) use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain a DT Treaty Passport scheme number to allow for the amount of such payments owed to it to not be subject to a deduction for such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes or (ii) provide the Parent and the Administrative Agent with evidence reasonably satisfactory to such parties that will allow the Parent or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, to determine that such payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes is subject to withholding at a reduced rate.
2.16 .
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
(a) . If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.12, or requires the Borrowers to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.14, or suspends its obligation to Continue, or Convert Advances into, Eurodollar Advances pursuant to Section 2.5(c)(vi) or Section 2.10, then such Lender (an "Affected Lender") shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Credit Extensions hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to
Designation of Different Lending Office
 
another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the reasonable judgment of such Affected Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.12 or 2.14, as the case may be, in the future or if applicable, would avoid the effect of Section 2.5(c)(vi) or Section 2.10, and (ii) would not subject such Affected Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Affected Lender. The Borrowers hereby agree to pay all costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
(b) Further, provided that no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, in the event that any Lender (i) is an Affected Lender, or (ii) becomes a Defaulting Lender, then the Borrowers shall have the right, at their sole cost and expense, to replace the Affected Lender or Defaulting Lender, as applicable, with one or more Eligible Assignees not later than 30 Business Days after notice to the Administrative Agent and the Affected Lender or Defaulting Lender, as applicable, designating the Eligible Assignee or Assignees and the percentage interest in the Affected Lender's or Defaulting Lender's, as applicable, interest to be assigned to each Eligible Assignee or Assignees; provided, however that with respect to any Affected Lender or Defaulting Lender, as applicable, such assignment will result in a reduction in the requested compensation or payments. The Affected Lender or Defaulting Lender, as applicable, and the designated Eligible Assignee or Assignees shall enter into an Assignment and Acceptance and otherwise conclude such assignment in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.5(a) (with the Borrowers or the Eligible Assignee paying any applicable processing and recordation fee), and each Eligible Assignee shall remit to the Affected Lender or Defaulting Lender, as applicable, in immediately available funds, an amount equal to the product of (A) the percentage interest of the Affected Lender's or Defaulting Lender's, as applicable, interest being assigned and (B) the outstanding principal, accrued interest, fees and other Obligations owed by the Borrowers to the Affected Lender or Defaulting Lender, as applicable, hereunder. A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver or consent by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrowers to require such assignment and delegation have ceased to apply.
2.17
.
Defaulting Lenders
(a) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then, until such time as that Lender is no longer a Defaulting Lender, to the extent permitted by applicable law:
Adjustments
(i) . Such Defaulting Lender's right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent with respect to this Agreement or any other Credit Document shall be restricted as set forth in Section 10.2.
Waivers and Amendments
(ii) . Any payment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Defaulting Lender (whether voluntary or mandatory, at maturity, pursuant to Section 2.6 or 2.7, or otherwise, and including any amounts made available to the Administrative Agent by such Defaulting Lender pursuant to Section 7.5), shall be applied at such time or times as may be determined by the Administrative Agent as follows:
Reallocation of Payments
2.17.1 , to the payment of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to the Administrative Agent hereunder;
first
2.17.2 , to the payment on a pro rata basis of any amounts owing by such Defaulting Lender to an Issuing Lender hereunder;
second
 
2.17.3 , if so determined by the Administrative Agent or requested by an Issuing Lender, to be held as Cash Collateral for future funding obligations of such Defaulting Lender of any participation in any Letter of Credit;
third
2.17.4 , as the Borrowers may request (so long as no Default or Event of Default exists), to the funding of any Advance in respect of which such Defaulting Lender has failed to fund its portion thereof as required by this Agreement, as determined by the Administrative Agent;
fourth
2.17.5 , if so determined by the Administrative Agent and the Borrowers, to be held in a non-interest bearing deposit account and released in order to satisfy obligations of such Defaulting Lender to fund Advances under this Agreement;
fifth
2.17.6 , to the payment of any amounts owing to the Lenders or an Issuing Lender as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by any Lender or an Issuing Lender against such Defaulting Lender as a result of such Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement;
sixth
2.17.7 , so long as no Default or Event of Default exists, to the payment of any amounts owing to any Borrower as a result of any judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction obtained by any Borrower against such Defaulting Lender as a result of such Defaulting Lender's breach of its obligations under this Agreement; and
seventh
2.17.8 , to such Defaulting Lender or as otherwise directed by a court of competent jurisdiction; provided that if (x) such payment is a payment of the principal amount of any Advances in respect of which that Defaulting Lender has not fully funded its appropriate share and (y) in the case of such Advances, such Advances were made at a time when the conditions set forth in Section 3.2 were satisfied or waived, such payment shall be applied solely to pay the Advances of all non-Defaulting Lenders on a pro rata basis prior to being applied to the payment of any Advances of such Defaulting Lender.
eighth
Any payments, prepayments or other amounts paid or payable to any Defaulting Lender that are applied (or held) to pay amounts owed by such Defaulting Lender or to post Cash Collateral pursuant to this Section 2.17(a)(ii) shall be deemed paid to and redirected by such Defaulting Lender, and each Lender irrevocably consents to the foregoing.
(iii) . Such Defaulting Lender shall not be entitled to receive any commitment fee pursuant to Section 2.8(a) or any letter of credit fee pursuant to Section 2.8(b), in each case as applicable, for any period during which such Lender is a Defaulting Lender (and, except as otherwise provided in the proviso of sub-Section 2.8(b)(i), the Borrowers shall not be required to pay any such fee that otherwise would have been required to have been paid to such Defaulting Lender or to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Defaulting Lender).
Certain Fees
(iv) . During any period in which there is a Revolving Lender that is a Defaulting Lender, solely for purposes of computing the amount of the obligation of each non-Defaulting Lender that is a Revolving Lender to acquire, refinance or fund participations in Letters of Credit pursuant to Section 2.3, the "Applicable Percentage" of each non-Defaulting Lender that is a Revolving Lender shall be computed without giving effect to the Revolving Commitment of such Defaulting Lender; provided, that (A) each such reallocation shall be given effect only if, at the date the applicable Revolving Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, no Default or Event of Default exists; and (B)
Reallocation of Ratable Portions to Reduce Fronting Exposure
 
the aggregate obligation of any non-Defaulting Lender that is a Revolving Lender to acquire, refinance or fund participations in Letters of Credit shall not exceed the positive difference, if any, of (1) the Revolving Commitments of such non-Defaulting Lender minus (2) the aggregate Revolving Advances of such non-Defaulting Lender.
(b) . If the Borrower Representative, the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Lenders agree in writing in their sole reasonable discretion that a Defaulting Lender should no longer be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender, the Administrative Agent will so notify the parties hereto, whereupon as of the effective date specified in such notice and subject to any conditions set forth therein (which may include arrangements with respect to any cash collateral), and if applicable, such Lender will, to the extent applicable, purchase that portion of outstanding Revolving Advances of the other Revolving Lenders or take such other actions as the Administrative Agent may determine to be necessary to cause the Revolving Advances and participations in Letters of Credit to be held on a pro rata basis by the Revolving Lenders in accordance with their Applicable Percentages (without giving effect to clause (a)(iv) above), whereupon such Lender will cease to be a Defaulting Lender; provided that no adjustments will be made retroactively with respect to fees accrued or payments made by or on behalf of the Borrowers while such Lender was a Defaulting Lender; and provided, further, that except to the extent otherwise expressly agreed by the affected parties, no change hereunder from Defaulting Lender to Lender will constitute a waiver or release of any claim of any party hereunder arising from that Lender's having been a Defaulting Lender.
Defaulting Lender Cure
(c) . If any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, then the Borrowers may, at their sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to be replaced in accordance with Section 2.16.
Replacement of Defaulting Lenders
(d) . The Borrowers may terminate the unused amount of the Revolving Commitments of a Defaulting Lender upon not less than three (3) Business Days' prior notice to the Administrative Agent (which will promptly notify the applicable Lenders thereof), provided that such termination will not be deemed to be a waiver or release of any claim any Borrower, the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Lender or any Lender may have against such Defaulting Lender.
Termination of Defaulting Lender Revolving Commitment
3.1 This Agreement shall become effective upon and the obligation of each Issuing Lender, the Swingline Lender and each Lender to make its initial Credit Extension hereunder is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
Conditions Precedent to Closing Date.
(a) . The Administrative Agent shall have received the following, duly executed by all the parties thereto, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders:
Documentation
(i) this Agreement and all attached Exhibits and Schedules;
(ii) the Notes payable to the order of each Lender, as requested by such Lender;
(iii) the Guaranty;
 
(iv) a certificate from a Responsible Officer of each Borrower dated as of the Closing Date hereof stating that as of such date (A) all representations and warranties of the Credit Parties set forth in this Agreement are true and correct in all material respects (provided that to the extent any representation and warranty is qualified as to "Material Adverse Change" or otherwise as to "materiality", such representation and warranty is true and correct in all respects) and (B) no Default has occurred and is continuing;
(v) a secretary's certificate from each Credit Party certifying such Person's (A) officers' incumbency, (B) authorizing resolutions, and (C) organizational documents;
(vi) certificates of good standing for each Credit Party in (a) the state or territory of the United States of America in which each such Person is organized and (b) each state or territory of the United States of America in which such good standing is necessary except where the failure to be in good standing could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change, which certificates shall be dated a date not earlier than 30 days prior to date hereof;
(vii) a legal opinion of Andrews Kurth LLP, outside counsel to the Credit Parties, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent;
(viii) a Compliance Certificate dated as of the Closing Date giving pro forma effect to the initial Borrowings, if any; and
(ix) such other documents, governmental certificates, and agreements as any Lender Party may reasonably request.
(b) . The representations and warranties contained in Article IV and in each other Credit Document shall be true and correct on and as of the Closing Date before and after giving effect to the initial Borrowings or issuance (or deemed issuance) of Letters of Credit, as though made on and as of such date and before and after giving effect to the Transactions which occur on or before the Closing Date.
Representations and Warranties
(c) . No Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
No Default
(d) . The Borrowers shall have paid the fees and expenses required to be paid as of the Closing Date by Section 10.1 and the Fee Letter.
Payment of Fees
(e) . The Administrative Agent shall have received reasonably sufficient evidence indicating that simultaneously with the making of the initial Advances hereunder the obligations of the Credit Parties and their lenders under the Existing Credit Facility shall be terminated (including, without limitation, any obligations in respect of guaranties executed in connection with such Existing Credit Facility (but excluding any obligations which expressly survive the repayment of the amounts owing under the Existing Credit Facility)).
Termination of Existing Credit Facility
(f) The Borrowers shall have received any consents, licenses and approvals required in accordance with applicable Legal Requirements, or in accordance with any document, agreement, instrument or arrangement to which any Borrower, or any Subsidiary is a party, in connection with the execution, delivery, performance, validity and enforceability of this Agreement and the other Credit Documents.
Consents; Authorization; Conflicts.
 
(g) . No action, suit, investigation, bankruptcy or other proceeding (including, without limitation, the enactment or promulgation of a statute or rule) by or before any arbitrator or any Governmental Authority shall be threatened or pending and no preliminary or permanent injunction or order by a state or federal court shall have been entered (i) in connection with this Agreement or any transaction contemplated hereby or (ii) which, in any case, in the judgment of the Administrative Agent could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change.
Other Proceedings
(h) . Since December 31, 2009, there shall not have occurred any circumstance or condition that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change.
Material Adverse Change
(i) . The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent from a senior financial officer of each Borrower certifying that, before and after giving effect to the initial Borrowings made hereunder, each Borrower is Solvent and the Credit Parties on a consolidated basis are Solvent.
Solvency
(j) . Prior to the Closing Date, the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and each Lender Party shall have received all documentation and other information that such Person shall have requested in order to comply with its respective obligations under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the Patriot Act, in each case to the extent such documentation and other information shall have been requested reasonably in advance of such date.
Patriot Act Disclosures
3.2 The obligation of each Lender to make any Credit Extension on the occasion of each Borrowing (including the initial Borrowing), the obligation of each Issuing Lender to make any Credit Extension and the obligation of the Swingline Lender to make Swingline Advances, in any such case, shall be subject to the further conditions precedent that on the date of such Borrowing or such Credit Extension:
Conditions Precedent to Each Credit Extension.
(a) . As of the date of the making of such Credit Extension, the representations and warranties made by any Credit Party in the Credit Documents shall be true and correct in all material respects on such date (provided that to the extent any representation and warranty is qualified as to "Material Adverse Change" or otherwise as to "materiality", such representation and warranty is true and correct in all respects), except that any representation and warranty which by its terms is made as of a specified date shall be required to be true and correct only as of such specified date and the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of Section 4.4 shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of Section 5.2, and each request for the making of any Credit Extension and the making of such Credit Extension shall be deemed to be a reaffirmation of such representations and warranties.
Representations and Warranties
(b) . As of the date of the Credit Extension, there shall exist no Default, and the making of such Credit Extension would not cause a Default.
Event of Default
Each Borrower hereby represents and warrants as follows:
4.1 Each of the Parent and its Subsidiaries is duly and validly organized and existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation or formation and is authorized to do business and is in good standing in all jurisdictions in which such qualifications or authorizations are necessary except where the failure could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change.
.
Organization
 
4.2 The execution, delivery, and performance by each Credit Party of each Credit Document to which such Credit Party is a party and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby (a) are within such Credit Party's powers, (b) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate, limited liability company or partnership action, (c) do not contravene any organizational documents of such Credit Party, (d) do not contravene any law or any contractual restriction binding on or affecting such Credit Party except where such contravention could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change, (e) do not result in or require the creation or imposition of any Lien prohibited by this Agreement except where such creation or imposition could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change, and (f) do not require any authorization or approval or other action by, or any notice or filing with, any Governmental Authority, except notices to or filings with the SEC that may be required from time to time and where the failure to obtain such authorizations or approvals could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change. At the time of each Credit Extension, such Credit Extension and the use of the proceeds of such Credit Extension are within each Borrower's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, do not contravene (i) such Borrower's organizational documents or (ii) any law or any contractual restriction binding on or affecting such Borrower, will not result in or require the creation or imposition of any Lien prohibited by this Agreement, and do not require any authorization or approval or other action by, or any notice or filing with, any Governmental Authority, in each case except where such contravention, creation, imposition or requirement could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change.
.
Authorization
4.3 . The Credit Documents have each been duly executed and delivered by each Credit Party that is a party thereto and each Credit Document constitutes the legal, valid, and binding obligation of each Credit Party that is a party thereto enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as limited by applicable Debtor Relief Laws or similar laws at the time in effect affecting the rights of creditors generally and to the effect of general principles of equity whether applied by a court of law or equity.
Enforceability
4.4 .
Financial Condition
(a) The Borrowers have delivered to the Lenders the Financial Statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2012 and such Financial Statements are true and correct in all material respects and present fairly the consolidated financial condition of each Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof. As of the date of the financial statements referred in the preceding sentence, there were no material contingent obligations, liabilities for taxes, unusual forward or long-term commitments, or unrealized or anticipated losses of the applicable Persons, except as disclosed therein and adequate reserves for such items have been made in accordance with GAAP.
(b) Since December 31, 2011, no event or condition has occurred that could reasonably be expected to result in Material Adverse Change.
4.5 . The Parent and each Subsidiary have good title to, or valid interests in, all its real and personal property material to its business, except for minor defects in title that do not materially interfere with its ability to conduct its business as currently conducted or to utilize such properties for their intended purposes.
Ownership and Liens
 
4.6 All written factual information (whether delivered before or after the date of this Agreement) prepared by or on behalf of the Parent or a Subsidiary and furnished to any Lender Party for purposes of or in connection with this Agreement, any other Credit Document or any transaction contemplated hereby or thereby is true and accurate in all material respects on the date as of which such information is dated or certified and not incomplete by omitting to state any material fact necessary to make such information (taken as a whole) not materially misleading at such time, in light of the circumstances under which they were made. There is no fact known to any Responsible Officer of the Parent on the date of this Agreement that has not been disclosed to the Administrative Agent that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change.
.
True and Complete Disclosure
4.7 . Except as disclosed in the Financial Statements provided in Section 4.4(a), there are no actions, suits, or proceedings pending or, to the Parent's knowledge, threatened against the Parent or any Subsidiary, at law, in equity, or in admiralty, or by or before any Governmental Authority, which could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change. Additionally, except as disclosed in writing to the Lender Parties, there is no pending or, to the best of the knowledge of the Parent, threatened action or proceeding instituted against the Parent or any Subsidiary which seeks to adjudicate the Parent or any Subsidiary as bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its Property.
Litigation
4.8 Neither the Parent nor any Subsidiary is a party to any indenture, loan or credit agreement or any lease or any other types of agreement or instrument or subject to any charter or corporate restriction or provision of applicable law or governmental regulation, in each case, the performance of or compliance with which could reasonably be expected to cause a Material Adverse Change. Neither the Parent nor any Subsidiary is in default under or with respect to any contract, agreement, lease or any other types of agreement or instrument to which the Parent or such Subsidiary is a party and which could reasonably be expected to cause a Material Adverse Change. No Default has occurred and is continuing.
.
Compliance with Agreements
4.9 . Except for matters that individually or in the aggregate could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change, (a) all Plans are in compliance in all material respects with all applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code, (b) no Termination Event has occurred with respect to any Plan, (c) each Plan has at all times satisfied the minimum funding standard under Section 302 of ERISA and there has been no excise tax imposed upon the Parent or any Subsidiary under Section 4971 of the Code, (d) no Reportable Event has occurred with respect to any Multiemployer Plan, (e) the present value of all benefits vested under each Plan (based on the assumptions used to fund such Plan) did not, as of the last annual valuation date applicable thereto, exceed the value of the assets of such Plan allocable to such vested benefits, (f) neither the Parent nor any member of the Controlled Group has had a complete or partial withdrawal from any Multiemployer Plan for which there is any unsatisfied withdrawal liability, and (g) neither the Parent nor any member of the Controlled Group during the last six years has been a participating employer in a Multiemployer Plan during the last six years. Based upon GAAP existing as of the date of this Agreement and current factual circumstances, the Parent has no reason to believe that the annual accrual expense during any fiscal year to the Parent or any Subsidiary for post-retirement benefits to be provided, except as required by law, to the current and former employees of the Parent or any Subsidiary under Plans that are welfare benefit plans (as defined in Section 3(1) of ERISA) could reasonably be expected to exceed $50,000,000.00.
Pension Plans
4.10 . Except to the extent that any inaccuracy could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change:
Environmental Condition
 
(a) . Except as disclosed in the Financial Statements provided in Section 4.4(a), the Parent and the Subsidiaries (i) have obtained all material Environmental Permits necessary for the ownership and operation of their respective Properties and the conduct of their respective businesses; (ii) have at all times been and are in material compliance with all terms and conditions of such Permits and with all other material requirements of applicable Environmental Laws; (iii) have not received written notice of any material violation or alleged material violation of any Environmental Law or Environmental Permit; and (iv) are not subject to any actual or contingent Environmental Claim.
Permits, Etc
(b) . None of the present or previously owned or operated Property of the Parent or any Subsidiary, wherever located, (i) has been placed on or proposed to be placed on the National Priorities List, the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation Liability Information System list, or their state or local analogs, or have been otherwise investigated, designated, listed, or identified as a potential site for removal, remediation, cleanup, closure, restoration, reclamation, or other response activity under any Environmental Laws; (ii) is subject to a Lien, arising under or in connection with any Environmental Laws, that attaches to any revenues or to any Property owned or operated by any Credit Party or any Subsidiary, wherever located; or (iii) has been the site of any Release of Hazardous Substances or Hazardous Wastes from present or past operations which has caused at the site or at any third-party site any condition that has resulted in or could reasonably be expected to result in the need for Response.
Certain Liabilities
(c) . Without limiting the foregoing, (i) all notices have been properly filed, and no further action is required under current applicable Environmental Law as to each Response or other restoration or remedial project undertaken by the Parent, any Subsidiary, or any Person's former Subsidiaries on any of their presently or formerly owned or operated Property and (ii) the present and, to the Parent's best knowledge, future liability, if any, of the Parent or of any Subsidiary which could reasonably be expected to arise in connection with requirements under Environmental Laws.
Certain Actions
4.11 . As of the Second Amendment Closing Date, the Parent does not have any Material Subsidiaries other than those listed on Schedule 4.11. The Equity Interests of each Material Subsidiary are validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable. Each Material Subsidiary, to the extent required, has complied with the requirements of Section 5.6.
Material Subsidiaries
4.12 . Neither the Parent nor any Subsidiary is an "investment company" or a company "controlled" by an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. Neither the Parent nor any Subsidiary is subject to regulation under any Federal or state statute, regulation or other Legal Requirement which limits its ability to incur Debt.
Investment Company Act
4.13 . Proper and accurate federal, state, local and foreign tax returns, reports and statements required to be filed (after giving effect to any extension granted in the time for filing) by the Parent, any Subsidiary, or any member of the Affiliated Group as determined under Section 1504 of the Code (hereafter collectively called the "Tax Group") have been filed with the appropriate Governmental Authorities, and all Taxes due and payable have been timely paid prior to the date on which any fine, penalty, interest, late charge or loss may be added thereto for non-payment thereof except (a) where contested in good faith and by appropriate proceeding and for which full or adequate provisions therefor is included on the books of the appropriate member of the Tax Group and (b) where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change. Proper and accurate amounts have been withheld (including withholdings from employee wages and salaries relating to income tax and employment insurance) by the Parent and all other members of the Tax Group from their employees for all periods to comply with the tax, social security and unemployment withholding provisions of applicable federal, state, local and foreign law except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change. Timely payment of all material sales and use taxes required by applicable law have been made by the Parent and all other members of the Tax Group except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change.
Taxes
 
4.14 . The Parent and each Subsidiary possesses all permits, licenses, patents, patent rights or licenses, trademarks, trademark rights, trade names rights, and copyrights which are material to the conduct of its respective business except where the failure to maintain the same could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change. The Parent and each Subsidiary manages and operates its business in accordance with all applicable Legal Requirements except where the failure to so manage or operate could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change.
Permits, Licenses, etc
4.15 . No Credit Party is engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U). No proceeds of any Advance will be used to purchase or carry any margin stock in violation of Regulation T, U or X.
Use of Proceeds
4.16 . The material Properties used or to be used in the continuing operations of the Parent or any Subsidiary, are in good working order and condition, normal wear and tear excepted, except for certain deficiencies that could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change. Except as disclosed in the Financial Statements provided in Section 4.4(a), neither the business nor the material Properties of the Parent or any Subsidiary has been affected as a result of any fire, explosion, earthquake, flood, drought, windstorm, accident, strike or other labor disturbance, embargo, requisition or taking of Property or cancellation of contracts, permits or concessions by a Governmental Authority, riot, activities of armed forces or acts of God or of any public enemy, which effect could reasonably be expected to cause a Material Adverse Change.
Condition of Property; Casualties
4.17 The Parent and each Subsidiary carry insurance (which may be carried by the Parent on a consolidated basis) or maintain appropriate risk management programs in such amounts, covering such risks and liabilities and with such deductibles or self-insurance retentions as are reasonable or customary given the nature of its business, its ability to self-insure, the circumstances and geographic area in which such business is being conducted and the availability of insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates.
.
Insurance
4.18
.
Foreign Assets Control Regulations, etc
(a) Neither any Letter of Credit nor any part of the proceeds of the Advances will violate the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, or any of the foreign assets control regulations of the United States Treasury Department (31 CFR, Subtitle B, Chapter V, as amended) or any enabling legislation or executive order relating thereto.
(b) Neither the Parent nor any Subsidiary (i) is, or will become, a Person described or designated in the Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List of the Office of Foreign Assets Control or in Section 1 of the Anti-Terrorism Order or (ii) engages or will engage in any dealings or transactions, or is or will be otherwise associated, with any such Person. The Parent and the Subsidiaries are in compliance, in all material respects, with the USA Patriot Act.
(c) The Parent and its Subsidiaries is in compliance with any laws or regulations relating to money laundering or terrorist financing, including, without limitation, the Bank Secrecy Act, 31 U.S.C. sections 5301 et seq.; the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, Pub. L. 107-56 (a/k/a the USA Patriot Act); Laundering of Monetary Instruments, 18 U.S.C. section 1956; Engaging in Monetary Transactions in Property Derived from Specified Unlawful Activity, 18 U.S.C. section 1957; the Financial Recordkeeping and Reporting of Currency and Foreign Transactions Regulations, 31 C.F.R. Part 103; and any similar laws or regulations currently in force or hereafter enacted.
 
(d) Neither any Letter of Credit nor any part of the proceeds of the Advances will be used, directly or indirectly, for any payments to any governmental official or employee, political party, official of a political party, candidate for political office, or anyone else acting in an official capacity, in order to obtain, retain or direct business or obtain any improper advantage, in violation of the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, assuming in all cases that such Act applies to the Parent or one of the Subsidiaries.
4.19 The Obligations of the Credit Parties under Credit Documents to which they are a party rank and will rank at least in priority of payment and in all other respects with all other unsecured Debt of such Credit Parties.
Obligations Pari Passu.
pari passu
So long as any Obligation shall remain unpaid (except for Obligations which by their terms survive termination), any Lender shall have any Revolving Commitment hereunder, or there shall exist any Letter of Credit Exposure, each Borrower agrees to comply with the following covenants.
5.1 The Parent shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary to, preserve and maintain its partnership, limited liability company or corporate existence, rights, franchises and privileges in the jurisdiction of its organization, and qualify and remain qualified as a foreign business entity in each jurisdiction in which qualification is necessary or desirable in view of its business and operations or the ownership of its Properties and where failure to qualify could reasonably be expected to cause a Material Adverse Change; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall prevent any transaction permitted by Section 6.7 or Section 6.8.
.
Organization
5.2 .
Reporting
(a) . The Parent shall provide, or shall cause to be provided, to the Administrative Agent with sufficient copies for the Lenders, as soon as available after the end of each fiscal year of the Parent, but in any event no more than five Business Days after the date required under Securities Laws for the filing of its Form 10-K, the unqualified audited annual Financial Statements, all prepared in conformity with GAAP consistently applied and all as audited by the Parent's certified public accountants of nationally recognized standing or otherwise reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent, together with a duly completed Compliance Certificate.
Annual Financial Reports
(b) . The Parent shall provide to the Administrative Agent with sufficient copies for the Lenders, as soon as available after the end of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Parent, but in any event no more than five Business Days after the date required under Securities Laws for the filing of its Form 10-Q Financial Statements as of the close of such fiscal quarter which shall be certified as accurate by a senior financial officer of the Parent, and a duly completed Compliance Certificate.
Quarterly Financial Reports
(c) . As soon as available and in any event within 60 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Parent, the Parent shall provide to the Administrative Agent an annual operating and capital budget for the current fiscal year.
Annual Budget
 
(d) The Parent shall provide to the Administrative Agent promptly, but in any event within three Business Days after knowledge of the occurrence thereof, a notice of each Default or Event of Default known to the Parent or to any other Subsidiary, together with a statement of a Responsible Officer of the Parent setting forth the details of such Default or Event of Default and the actions which the Parent or such other Subsidiary has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto.
Defaults.
(e) . The Parent shall provide to the Administrative Agent promptly after the giving or receipt thereof, copies of any default notices given or received by the Parent or by any other Subsidiary pursuant to the terms of any indenture, loan agreement, credit agreement, or similar agreement evidencing or relating to Debt in a principal amount equal to or greater than $50,000,000.
Other Creditors
(f) . The Parent shall provide to the Administrative Agent promptly after the commencement thereof, notice of all actions, suits, and proceedings before any Governmental Authority, affecting the Parent or any Subsidiary, in each case, that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change.
Litigation
(g) . Promptly upon, and in any event no later than 15 days after, the receipt thereof, or the acquisition of knowledge thereof, by the Parent or any Subsidiary, the Parent shall provide the Administrative Agent with a copy of any form of request, claim, complaint, order, notice, summons or citation received from any Governmental Authority or any other Person, (i) concerning violations or alleged violations of Environmental Laws, which seeks to impose liability therefore in excess of $50,000,000, or (ii) concerning any action or omission on the part of the Parent or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with Hazardous Waste or Hazardous Substances which could reasonably result in the imposition of liability in excess of $50,000,000 or requiring that action be taken to respond to or clean up a Release of Hazardous Substances or Hazardous Waste into the environment and such action or clean-up could reasonably be expected to exceed $50,000,000, including without limitation any information request related to, or notice of, potential responsibility under CERCLA.
Environmental Notices
(h) . The Parent shall provide to the Administrative Agent prompt written notice of any condition or event of which the Parent or any Subsidiary has knowledge, which condition or event has resulted or may reasonably be expected to result in (i) a Material Adverse Change or (ii) a breach of or noncompliance with any material term, condition, or covenant of any material contract to which the Parent or any Subsidiary is a party or by which their Properties may be bound which breach or noncompliance could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change.
Material Changes
(i) . As soon as possible and in any event (i) within 30 days after the Parent or any member of the Controlled Group knows or has reason to know that any Termination Event described in clause (a) of the definition of Termination Event with respect to any Plan has occurred, and (ii) within 10 days after the Parent or any member of the Controlled Group knows or has reason to know that any other Termination Event with respect to any Plan has occurred, the Parent shall provide to the Administrative Agent a statement of a Responsible Officer of the Parent describing such Termination Event and the action, if any, which the Parent or any Affiliate of the Parent proposes to take with respect thereto;
Termination Events
(j) . Promptly and in any event within five Business Days after receipt thereof by the Parent or any other member of the Controlled Group from the PBGC, the Parent shall provide to the Administrative Agent copies of each notice received by the Parent or any such other member of the Controlled Group of the PBGC's intention to terminate any Plan or to have a trustee appointed to administer any Plan;
Termination of Plans
 
(k) . (i) Promptly and in any event within five Business Days after receipt thereof by the Parent or any other member of the Controlled Group from a Multiemployer Plan sponsor, the Parent shall provide to the Administrative Agent a copy of each notice received by the Parent or any other member of the Controlled Group concerning the imposition or amount of withdrawal liability imposed on the Parent or any other member of the Controlled Group pursuant to Section 4202 of ERISA; (ii) as soon as possible and in any event no later than 30 days prior to the occurrence of such event, the Parent shall provide to the Administrative Agent written notice of an assumption by the Parent, any Subsidiary, or any member of the Controlled Group of an obligation to contribute to any Multiemployer Plan; and (iii) as soon as possible and in any event no later than 30 days prior to the occurrence of such event, the Parent shall provide to the Administrative Agent written notice of an acquisition by the Parent, any Subsidiary, or any member of the Controlled Group of an interest in any Person that causes such Person to become a member of the Controlled Group if such Person sponsors, maintains or contributes to, or at any time in the six-year period preceding such acquisition has sponsored, maintained, or contributed to, (1) any Multiemployer Plan, or (2) any other Plan that is subject to Title IV of ERISA under which the actuarial present value of the benefit liabilities under such Plan exceeds the current value of the assets (computed on a plan termination basis in accordance with Title IV of ERISA) of such Plan allocable to such benefit liabilities;
Other ERISA Notices
(l) . Promptly and in any event within five Business Days after receipt thereof by the Parent or any Subsidiary, the Parent shall provide to the Administrative Agent a copy of any notice, summons, citation, or proceeding seeking to modify in any material respect, revoke, or suspend any material contract, license, permit, or agreement with any Governmental Authority if such modification, revocation or suspension could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change;
Other Governmental Notices
(m) . Promptly and in any event within five Business Days after knowledge thereof by the Parent or any Subsidiary, the Parent shall provide to the Administrative Agent written notice of (i) any claims, legal or arbitration proceedings, proceedings before any Governmental Authority, or disputes, or to the knowledge of the Parent or any Subsidiary, any such actions threatened, or affecting the Parent or any Subsidiary, which, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected to cause a Material Adverse Change, or any material labor controversy of which the Parent or any Subsidiary has knowledge resulting in or reasonably considered to be likely to result in a strike against the Parent or any Subsidiary if such strike could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change, and (ii) any claim, judgment, Lien or other encumbrance (other than a Permitted Lien) affecting any Property of the Parent or any Subsidiary, if the value of the claim, judgment, Lien, or other encumbrance affecting such Property shall exceed $50,000,000;
Disputes; etc
(n) . Promptly after the same become publicly available, the Parent shall provide to the Administrative Agent copies of all periodic and other reports, proxy statements and other materials (other than filings under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) filed by the Parent or any Subsidiary with the SEC, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any or all of the functions of said Commission, or with any national securities exchange, or distributed by the Parent or any Subsidiary to its shareholders generally, as the case may be;
SEC
(o) . The Borrowers shall provide to the Administrative Agent prompt written notice of the issuance of any Additional Notes, prior written notice of such intended offering therefor, the amount thereof and the anticipated date of closing, each if applicable, together with calculations in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent certified by a Responsible Officer of the Parent demonstrating that the Parent is in compliance, on a pro forma basis after giving effect to such issuance, with the covenants contained in Section 6.15 recomputed as of the last day of the most recently ended fiscal quarter of the Parent as if such issuance had occurred on the first day of each relevant period for testing such compliance; and
Additional Notes
 
(p) . Subject to the confidentiality provisions of Section 10.8, the Parent shall provide to the Administrative Agent such other information respecting the business, operations, or Property of the Parent or any Subsidiary, financial or otherwise, as any Lender through the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
Other Information
Documents required to be delivered pursuant to Section 5.2(a), (b), or (n) (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Parent posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Parent's website on the Internet at the website address listed on Schedule IV; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Parent's behalf on IntraLinks/IntraAgency or another relevant website (including, without limitation, the SEC's website), if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); provided that: the Parent shall notify (which may be by facsimile or electronic mail) the Administrative Agent (and the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders thereof) of the posting of any such documents. The Administrative Agent shall not have an obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Parent with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
5.3 The Parent shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary to, carry insurance (which may be carried by the Parent on a consolidated basis) or maintain appropriate risk management programs in such amounts, covering such risks and liabilities and with such deductibles or self-insurance retentions as are reasonable or customary given the nature of its business, its ability to self-insure, the circumstances and geographic area in which such business is being conducted, and the availability of insurance coverage at commercially reasonable rates and as are consistent with past practices.
.
Insurance
5.4 . The Parent shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary to, comply with all federal, state, provincial, territorial and local laws and regulations (including Environmental Laws) which are applicable to the operations and Property of the Parent or such Subsidiary and maintain all related permits necessary for the ownership and operation of the Parent's and such Subsidiary's Property and business, except in any case where the failure to so comply or maintain could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change, provided that this Section 5.4 shall not prevent the Parent or any of its Subsidiaries from, in good faith and with reasonable diligence, contesting the validity or application of any such laws or regulations by appropriate legal proceedings for which adequate reserves have been established.
Compliance with Laws
5.5 . The Parent shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary to pay and discharge all Taxes imposed on the Parent or any of its Subsidiaries, respectively, prior to the date on which penalties attach, except in any case where the failure to so comply could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change; provided that nothing in this Section 5.5 shall require the Parent or any of its Subsidiaries to pay any Tax which is being contested in good faith and for which adequate reserves have been established in accordance with GAAP.
Taxes
5.6 . Immediately upon the creation of any new Material Subsidiary permitted by this Agreement and within 30 days of any Person becoming a Material Subsidiary or after the purchase by the Parent or any of its Subsidiaries of the Equity Interests of any Person, which purchase results in such Person becoming a Material Subsidiary, the Parent shall (a)
Additional Material Subsidiary Guarantors
 
cause such Subsidiary to execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent, a joinder to the Material Subsidiary Guaranty, and (b) cause such Subsidiary to deliver such evidence of corporate authority to enter into such other Credit Documents and favorable opinions of counsel to such Person (which shall cover, among other things, the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability of the documentation referred to in clause (a)) as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
5.7 The Parent shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary to maintain proper, complete and consistent books of record with respect to such Person's operations, affairs, and financial condition. From time to time upon reasonable prior notice, the Parent shall permit any Lender and shall cause each Subsidiary to permit any Lender to (a) visit and inspect the Property of the Parent or such Subsidiary, (b) discuss the business operations and Property of the Parent or such Subsidiary with the officers and directors thereof and (c) after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, subject to any applicable confidentiality considerations, examine the books and records of the Parent or such Subsidiary, in each case at such reasonable times and intervals and to a reasonable extent and under the reasonable guidance of officers of or employees delegated by officers of the Parent or such Subsidiary.
Records; Inspection.
5.8 The Parent shall, and shall cause each Subsidiary to, maintain their owned, leased, or operated Property in good condition and repair, normal wear and tear excepted, except to the extent any failure to so maintain could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change; and shall abstain from, and cause each Subsidiary to abstain from, knowingly or willfully permitting the commission of waste or other injury, destruction, or loss of natural resources, or the occurrence of pollution, contamination, or any other condition in, on or about the owned or operated Property involving the Environment that could reasonably be expected to result in Response activities and that could reasonably be expected to cause a Material Adverse Change.
Maintenance of Property.
5.9 Prior to or concurrently with a Specified Holding Company incurring any Debt permitted under Section 6.1(b), other than Debt permitted under Section 6.1(d), the Parent shall (a) cause such Specified Holding Company to execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent a Specified Holding Company Guaranty or joinder or supplement thereto executed in favor of the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lender Parties and (b) cause such Specified Holding Company to deliver such evidence of corporate authority to enter into such other Credit Documents and favorable opinions of counsel to such Person (which shall cover, among other things, the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability of the documentation referred to in clause (a)) as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
Specified Holding Companies.
So long as any Obligation shall remain unpaid (except for Obligations which by their terms survive termination), any Lender shall have any Revolving Commitment hereunder, or there shall exist any Letter of Credit Exposure, each Borrower agrees to comply with the following covenants.
6.1 The Parent shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, create, assume, incur, suffer to exist, or in any manner become liable, directly, indirectly, or contingently in respect of, any Debt, other than the following:
.
Debt
(a) Debt existing on the Closing Date and (i) described in paragraphs (1), (6), and (7) in Schedule 6.1 and (ii) Debt under each MARAD Series so long as the MARAD Conditions have been satisfied with respect to such MARAD Series and the Parent has delivered evidence of such satisfaction of the MARAD Conditions satisfactory to the Administrative Agent; in each case, provided that such Debt may not be increased in principal amount except to the extent such additional principal amount would be permitted pursuant to Section 6.1(c) below;
 
(b) unsecured Debt of the Parent or any of its Subsidiaries (other than a Specified Holding Company that has not complied with the requirements of Section 5.9) provided that the Parent and its Subsidiaries shall be in compliance, on a pro forma basis after giving effect to such transactions, with the covenants contained in this Agreement recomputed as of the last day of the most recently ended fiscal quarter of the Parent as if the incurrence of the unsecured Debt in question had occurred on the first day of each relevant period for testing such compliance;
(c) secured Debt not otherwise permitted under this Section 6.1; provided that (i) the Liens securing such Debt are permitted under Sections 6.2(k) and 6.2(l) and (ii) the Parent and its Subsidiaries shall be in compliance, on a pro forma basis after giving effect to such transactions, with the covenants contained in this Agreement recomputed as of the last day of the most recently ended fiscal quarter of the Parent as if the incurrence of the secured Debt in question had occurred on the first day of each relevant period for testing such compliance; and
(d) intercompany Debt.
6.2 The Parent shall not, nor shall it permit any of its Subsidiaries to, create, assume, incur, or suffer to exist any Lien on the Property of the Parent or any Subsidiary of the Parent, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or assign any right to receive any income, other than the following:
.
Liens
(a) Liens securing the Obligations;
(b) Liens existing on the Closing Date and described in Schedule 6.2;
(c) Liens imposed by law, such as materialmen's, mechanics', builder's, carriers', workmen's and repairmen's liens, and other similar liens arising in the ordinary course of business securing obligations which are not overdue for a period of more than 60 days or are being contested in good faith by appropriate procedures or proceedings and for which adequate reserves have been established;
(d) Liens arising in the ordinary course of business out of pledges or deposits under workers compensation laws, unemployment insurance, old age pensions, or other social security or retirement benefits, or similar legislation to secure public or statutory obligations;
(e) Liens for taxes, assessment, or other governmental charges which are not yet due and payable or which are being actively contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves for such items have been made in accordance with GAAP;
(f) Liens arising from precautionary UCC financing statements regarding leases to the extent such leases are permitted hereby;
(g) encumbrances consisting of minor easements, zoning restrictions, or other restrictions on the use of real property that do not (individually or in the aggregate) materially affect the value of the assets encumbered thereby or materially impair the ability of the Parent or such other Subsidiary to use such assets in its business, and none of which is violated in any material aspect by existing or proposed structures or land use to the extent such violation could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change;
 
(h) Liens arising solely by virtue of any statutory or common law provision relating to banker's liens, rights of set-off or similar rights and remedies and burdening only deposit accounts or other funds maintained with a depository institution;
(i) Liens on cash or securities pledged to secure performance of tenders, surety and appeal bonds, government contracts, performance and return of money bonds, bids, trade contracts, leases, statutory obligations, regulatory obligations and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(j) judgment and attachment Liens not giving rise to an Event of Default, provided that (i) any appropriate legal proceedings which may have been duly initiated for the review of such judgment shall not have been finally terminated or the period within which such proceeding may be initiated shall not have expired and (ii) no action to enforce such Lien has been commenced;
(k) Liens securing Debt and not otherwise permitted under this Section 6.2; provided that (i) the aggregate principal amount of all Debt secured by such Liens does not exceed 5% of the Net Worth of the Parent and its consolidated Subsidiaries at any time (determined as of the end of each of the most recently completed fiscal quarter for which financial statements have been provided pursuant to Section 5.2), and (ii) the Parent and its Subsidiaries are in compliance with the covenants set forth in this Agreement, both before and after giving effect to each incurrence of such Debt); provided, further, notwithstanding the foregoing, that no Lien permitted under this Section 6.2(k) shall secure Debt owing under the Note Documents unless and until the Debt under the Credit Documents is equally and ratably secured by all property subject to such Lien, in each case pursuant to documentation reasonably satisfactory to the Majority Lenders; and
(l) Liens on property of a person existing at the time such person is acquired or merged with or into or consolidated with the Parent as a Subsidiary (and not created in anticipation or contemplation thereof); provided that such Liens (i) do not extend to property not subject to such Liens at the time of acquisition (other than improvements thereof), and (ii) secure Debt permitted by Section 6.1(c).
6.3
[Reserved].
6.4 . The Parent shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, make an Acquisition in a transaction or related series of transactions; provided that, an Acquisition may be made so long as no Event of Default exists both before and after giving effect to such Acquisition and such Acquisition is in accordance with Section 6.11.
Acquisitions
6.5 . The Parent shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any contract, agreement or understanding (other than this Agreement) (a) which in any way prohibits or restricts (i) the Parent or any Subsidiary from paying or prepaying the Obligations, or which requires the consent of or notice to other Persons in connection therewith, (ii) the granting, conveying, creation or imposition of any Lien on any of its Property, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, to secure the Obligations (other than agreements governing secured Debt permitted by Sections 6.1 and 6.2 to the extent such restrictions govern only the asset financed pursuant to or securing such Debt and the Note Documents), or (iii) any Subsidiary from making Restricted Payments or making or paying intercompany loans and advances any Borrower, or (b) with respect to any action described in clauses (a)(i), (ii) or (iii) above, which requires the consent of or notice to other Persons in connection therewith.
Burdensome Agreements
 
6.6 . The Parent shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to use the proceeds of the Revolving Advances and Letters of Credit for any purposes other than (a) for working capital and other general corporate purposes, (b) fund capital expenditures and (c) the payment of fees and expenses related to the entering into of this Agreement and the other Credit Documents. The Parent shall not, nor shall it permit any of its Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly use any part of the proceeds of Advances or Letters of Credit for any purpose which violates, or is inconsistent with, Regulations T, U, or X.
Use of Proceeds; Use of Letters of Credit
6.7 .
Corporate Actions; Fundamental Changes
(a) The Parent shall not, nor shall it permit any Credit Party to, merge, amalgamate or consolidate with or into any other Person, except that (i) the Parent may merge or amalgamate with any Person provided that (A) no Change in Control occurs and (B) immediately after giving effect to any such proposed transaction no Default would exist, (ii) the Parent may merge or amalgamate with any of its wholly-owned Subsidiaries, provided that immediately after giving effect to any such proposed transaction no Default would exist and the Parent is the surviving entity (iii) Rowan Delaware may merge or amalgamate with any of its wholly-owned Subsidiaries, provided that immediately after giving effect to any such proposed transaction no Default would exist and Rowan Delaware is the surviving entity, (iv) any Credit Party (other than a Borrower) may merge or amalgamate with any other wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Parent, provided that immediately after giving effect to such proposed transaction no Default would exist and a Credit Party is the surviving entity and (v) any Subsidiary of the Parent (other than a Credit Party) may merge, amalgamate or be consolidated with or into any other Person, provided that immediately after giving effect to any such proposed transaction no Default would exist.
(b) The Parent shall not, nor shall it permit any Credit Party to, sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all/any substantial part of its assets, or all or substantially all of the stock of any Material Subsidiary (in each case, whether now owned or hereafter acquired), or liquidate or dissolve, except that, if at the time thereof and immediately after giving effect thereto no Default shall have occurred and be continuing, any Subsidiary of the Parent (other than Rowan Delaware) may liquidate or dissolve if the Parent determines in good faith that such liquidation or dissolution is in the best interests of the Parent and is not materially disadvantageous to the Lenders.
6.8 . The Parent shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, sell, convey, or otherwise transfer any of its assets outside the ordinary course of business; provided that, any such sale, conveyance or transfer may be effected if (a) no Event of Default exists both prior to and after giving effect to such sale, conveyance or transfer and (b) such sale, conveyance or transfer is not prohibited under Section 6.7 above.
Sale of Assets
6.9 .
[Reserved]
6.10 . The Parent shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly, enter into or permit to exist any transaction or series of transactions (including, but not limited to, the purchase, sale, lease or exchange of Property, the making of any investment, the giving of any guaranty, the assumption of any obligation or the rendering of any service) with any of their Affiliates unless such transaction or series of transactions is on terms no less favorable to the Parent or any Subsidiary, as applicable, than those that could be obtained in a comparable arm's length transaction with a Person that is not such an affiliate, provided that the foregoing restriction shall not apply to transactions between or among the Parent and any of its wholly-owned Subsidiaries or between and among any wholly-owned Subsidiaries.
Affiliate Transactions
 
6.11 . The Parent shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, change the character of its business such that the principal business of the Parent and its Subsidiaries or Rowan Delaware and its Subsidiaries is not contract drilling or manufacturing substantially as conducted on the date of this Agreement.
Line of Business
6.12 . Except for matters that individually or in the aggregate could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change, the Parent shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly: (a) engage in any transaction in connection with which the Parent or any Subsidiary could be subjected to either a civil penalty assessed pursuant to section 502(c), (i) or (l) of ERISA or a tax imposed by Chapter 43 of Subtitle D of the Code; (b) fail to make, or permit any member of the Controlled Group to fail to make, full payment when due of all amounts which, under the provisions of any Plan, agreement relating thereto or applicable law, the Parent, a Subsidiary or member of the Controlled Group is required to pay as contributions thereto; (c) fail to cause, or allow any Subsidiary or any member of the Controlled Group to fail to cause, any Plan to comply with the minimum funding standard under Section 302 of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code; (d) permit, or allow any member of the Controlled Group to permit, the actuarial present value of the benefit liabilities (as "actuarial present value of the benefit liabilities" shall have the meaning specified in section 4041 of ERISA) under any Plan that is regulated under Title IV of ERISA to exceed the current value of the assets (computed on a plan termination basis in accordance with Title IV of ERISA) of such Plan allocable to such benefit liabilities; (e) incur, or permit any member of the Controlled Group to incur, a liability to or on account of a Plan under sections 515, 4062, 4063, 4064, 4201 or 4204 of ERISA; or (f) fail to cause, or permit any member of the Controlled Group to fail to cause, any Plan to comply with the requirements of Section 436 of the Code.
Compliance with ERISA
6.13 . The Parent shall not, nor shall it permit any of its Subsidiaries to permit (a) any change in any of its accounting policies affecting the presentation of financial statements or reporting practices, except as required or permitted by GAAP or (b) the fiscal year of the Parent or any of its Subsidiaries to end on a day other than December 31 or change the Parent's method of determining fiscal quarters.
Limitation on Accounting Changes or Changes in Fiscal Periods
6.14 . The Parent shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, (a) purchase, assume, or hold a speculative position in any commodities market or futures market or enter into any Hedging Arrangement for speculative purposes; or (b) be party to or otherwise enter into any Hedging Arrangement which is entered into for reasons other than as a part of its normal business operations as a risk management strategy and/or hedge against changes resulting from market conditions related to the Parent's or its Subsidiaries' operations.
Hedging Arrangements
6.15 . The Parent shall not permit the Debt to Capitalization Ratio, at the end of each fiscal quarter of the Parent, to be greater than 50%.
Debt to Capitalization Ratio
7.1 . The occurrence of any of the following events shall constitute an "Event of Default" under this Agreement and any other Credit Document:
Events of Default
(a) . Any Credit Party (i) fails to pay any principal when due under this Agreement or (ii) fails to pay, within three Business Days of when due, any other amount due under this Agreement or any other Credit Document, including payments of interest, fees, reimbursements, and indemnifications;
Payment Failure
 
(b) . Any representation or warranty made or deemed to be made by any Credit Party or any Responsible Officer thereof in this Agreement, in any other Credit Document or in any certificate delivered in connection with this Agreement or any other Credit Document is incorrect, false or otherwise misleading in any material respect at the time it was made or deemed made;
False Representation or Warranties
(c) . (i) Any breach by any Credit Party of any of the covenants in Section 5.2(a), Section 5.2(b), Section 5.2(d), or Article VI of this Agreement or (ii) any breach by any Credit Party of any other covenant contained in this Agreement or any other Credit Document and such breach is not cured within 30 days after the earlier of the date notice thereof is given to the Parent by any Lender Party or the date any Responsible Officer of the Parent or any Subsidiary obtained actual knowledge thereof;
Breach of Covenant
(d) . Any Guaranty shall at any time (before its expiration according to its terms) and for any reason cease to be in full force and effect and valid and binding on the Guarantors party thereto or shall be contested by any party thereto; any Guarantor shall deny it has any liability or obligation under any Guaranty; or any Guarantor shall cease to exist other than as expressly permitted by the terms of this Agreement;
Guaranties
(e) . (i) The Parent or any Subsidiary shall fail to pay any principal of or premium or interest on its Debt which is outstanding in a principal amount of at least $50,000,000.00 individually or when aggregated with all such Debt of such Persons so in default (but excluding Debt constituting Obligations) when the same becomes due and payable (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise), and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Debt; (ii) any other event shall occur or condition shall exist under any agreement or instrument relating to Debt which is outstanding in a principal amount of at least $50,000,000.00 individually or when aggregated with all such Debt of such Persons so in default (other than Debt constituting Obligations), and shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in such agreement or instrument, if the effect of such event or condition is to accelerate, or to permit the acceleration of, the maturity of such Debt prior to the stated maturity thereof; or (iii) any such Debt which is outstanding in a principal amount of at least $50,000,000.00 individually or when aggregated with all such Debt of such Persons so in default shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid (other than by a regularly scheduled required prepayment); provided that, for purposes of this subsection 7.1(e), the "principal amount" of the obligations in respect of any Hedging Arrangements at any time shall be the maximum aggregate amount (giving effect to any netting agreements) that would be required to be paid if such Hedging Arrangements were terminated at such time; and provided further that, with respect to any MARAD Series, any Security Default (as defined in the Security Agreement related to such MARAD Series) under any agreement governing such MARAD Series caused solely by the Merger shall not constitute an Event of Default under this Agreement or any other Credit Document for so long as the MARAD Conditions with respect to such MARAD Series are satisfied by the dates specified in the definition of "MARAD Conditions".
Cross-Default
(f) . (i) Any Borrower shall terminate its existence or dissolve or (ii) any Credit Party or any Specified Holding Company (A) admits in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due; makes an assignment for the benefit of its creditors; consents to or acquiesces in the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, fiscal agent, or trustee of itself or any of its Property; files a petition under any Debtor Relief Law; or consents to any reorganization, arrangement, workout, liquidation, dissolution, or similar relief under any Debtor Relief Law, (B) shall have had, without its consent, any court enter an order appointing a receiver, liquidator, fiscal agent, or trustee of itself or any of its Property; any petition filed against it seeking reorganization, arrangement, workout, liquidation, dissolution or similar relief under any Debtor Relief Law and such petition shall not be dismissed, stayed, or set aside for an aggregate of 60 days, whether or not consecutive or (C) shall have had any order for relief entered by a court under any Debtor Relief Law;
Bankruptcy and Insolvency
 
(g) . The Parent or any Subsidiary suffers final judgments against any of them since the date of this Agreement in an aggregate amount, less any insurance proceeds covering such judgments which are received or as to which the insurance carriers admit liability, greater than $50,000,000.00 and either (i) execution and/or seizure proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon such judgments or (ii) there shall be any period of 30 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgments, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect;
Adverse Judgment
(h) . Any Termination Event with respect to a Plan shall have occurred, and, 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given to the Parent by the Administrative Agent, such Termination Event shall not have been corrected and shall have created and caused to be continuing a material risk of Plan termination or liability for withdrawal from the Plan as a "substantial employer" (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA), which termination could reasonably be expect to result in a liability of, or liability for withdrawal could reasonably be expected to be, greater than $50,000,000.00;
Termination Events
(i) . The Parent or any member of the Controlled Group as employer under a Multiemployer Plan shall have made a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan and such withdrawing employer shall have incurred a withdrawal liability in an annual amount exceeding $50,000,000.00;
Plan Withdrawals
(j) . Any event occurs creating any ERISA Liabilities which could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Change and such event is not cured within 60 days from the occurrence of such event; or
ERISA Liabilities
(k) . The occurrence of a Change in Control.
Change in Control
7.2 . If any Event of Default (other than an Event of Default pursuant to Section 7.1(f)) shall have occurred and be continuing, then, and in any such event,
Optional Acceleration of Maturity
(a) the Administrative Agent (i) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Majority Lenders, by notice to the Borrower Representative, declare that the obligation of each Revolving Lender, the Swingline Lender and each Issuing Lender to make Credit Extensions shall be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate and (ii) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Majority Lenders, by notice to the Borrower Representative, declare all outstanding Advances, all interest thereon, and all other amounts payable under this Agreement to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon such Advances, all such interest, and all such amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable in full, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind (including, without limitation, any notice of intent to accelerate or notice of acceleration), all of which are hereby expressly waived by each Borrower,
(b) the Borrowers shall, on demand of the Administrative Agent at the request or with the consent of the Majority Lenders, deposit with the Administrative Agent into the Cash Collateral Account an amount of cash equal to 103% of the outstanding Letter of Credit Exposure as security for the Obligations to the extent the Letter of Credit Obligations are not otherwise paid or cash collateralized at such time, and
 
(c) the Administrative Agent shall at the request of, or may with the consent of, the Majority Lenders proceed to enforce its rights and remedies under any Guaranty or any other Credit Document by appropriate proceedings.
7.3 . If any Event of Default pursuant to Section 7.1(f) shall occur,
Automatic Acceleration of Maturity
(a) the obligation of each Lender, the Swingline Lender and each Issuing Lender to make Credit Extensions shall immediately and automatically be terminated and all Advances, all interest on the Advances, and all other amounts payable under this Agreement shall immediately and automatically become and be due and payable in full, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind (including, without limitation, any notice of intent to accelerate or notice of acceleration), all of which are hereby expressly waived by each Borrower,
(b) the Borrowers shall deposit with the Administrative Agent into the Cash Collateral Account an amount of cash equal to 103% of the outstanding Letter of Credit Exposure as security for the Obligations to the extent the Letter of Credit Obligations are not otherwise paid or cash collateralized at such time, and
(c) the Administrative Agent shall at the request of, or may with the consent of, the Majority Lenders proceed to enforce its rights and remedies under any Guaranty or any other Credit Document by appropriate proceedings.
7.4 . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender Party and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender Party or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of any Credit Party against any and all of the obligations of such Credit Party now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Credit Document to such Lender Party, irrespective of whether or not such Lender Party shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Credit Document and although such obligations of any Credit Party may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender Party different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. In the event that any Defaulting Lender shall exercise any right of setoff, (a) all amounts so set off shall be paid over immediately to the Administrative Agent for further application in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.17 and, pending such payment, shall be segregated by such Defaulting Lender from its other funds and deemed held in trust for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and (b) the Defaulting Lender shall provide promptly to the Administrative Agent a statement describing in reasonable detail the Obligations owing to such Defaulting Lender as to which it exercised such right of setoff The rights of the Lender Parties and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that the Lender Parties and their respective Affiliates may have. Each Lender Party agrees to notify the Borrower Representative and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application, provided that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
Set-off
.
7.5 . No right, power, or remedy conferred to any Lender Party in this Agreement or the Credit Documents, or now or hereafter existing at law, in equity, by statute, or otherwise shall be exclusive, and each such right, power, or remedy shall to the full extent permitted by law be cumulative and in addition to every other such right, power or remedy. No course of dealing and no delay in exercising any right, power, or remedy conferred to any Lender Party in this Agreement and the Credit Documents or now or hereafter existing at law, in equity, by statute, or
Remedies Cumulative, No Waiver
 
otherwise shall operate as a waiver of or otherwise prejudice any such right, power, or remedy. Any Lender Party may cure any Event of Default without waiving the Event of Default. No notice to or demand upon the Borrowers or the Borrower Representative shall entitle the Borrowers or the Borrower Representative to similar notices or demands in the future.
7.6 .
Application of Payments
(a) . Prior to an Event of Default, all payments made hereunder shall be applied as directed by the Borrowers, but such payments are subject to the terms of this Agreement.
Prior to Event of Default
(b) . If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, any amounts received or collected from, or on account of assets held by, any Credit Party shall be applied to the Obligations by the Administrative Agent in the following order and manner:
After Event of Default
(i) First, to payment of that portion of such Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses, and other amounts (other than principal and interest but including fees, charges, and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under Sections 2.11, 2.12, and 2.14) payable by any Credit Party to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
(ii) Second, to payment of that portion of such Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal and interest) payable by any Credit Party to the Lender Parties (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lender Parties and amounts payable under Article II), ratably among Lender Parties;
(iii) Third, to payment of that portion of such Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid interest, allocated ratably among the Lender Parties;
(iv) Fourth, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Obligations payable by any Credit Party allocated ratably among the Lender Parties;
(v) Fifth, to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Issuing Lenders, ratably among the Issuing Lenders, to cash collateralize that portion of the Letter of Credit Obligations comprised of the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit;
(vi) Sixth, to the remaining Obligations owed by any Credit Party including all Obligations for which a Borrower is liable as a Guarantor, allocated among such remaining Obligations as determined by the Administrative Agent and the Majority Lenders and applied to such Obligations in the order specified in this clause (b); and
(vii) Last, the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, the Letters of Credit have been terminated or cash collateralized and all Revolving Commitments have been terminated, to the Borrowers or as otherwise required by any Legal Requirement.
Subject to Section 2.3(i), amounts used to Cash Collateralize the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit pursuant to clause Fifth above shall be applied to satisfy drawings under such Letters of Credit as they occur. If any amount remains on deposit as Cash Collateral after all Letters of Credit have either been fully drawn or expired, such remaining amount shall be applied to the other Obligations, if any, in the order set forth above.
 
8.1 . Each Lender and each Issuing Lender hereby irrevocably (a) appoints Wells Fargo to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Credit Documents, and (b) authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article VIII are solely for the benefit of the Lender Parties, and no Borrower or any other Credit Party shall have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
Appointment and Authority
8.2 . The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Parent or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
Rights as a Lender
8.3 . None of the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Lenders shall have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Credit Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, none of the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Lenders:
Exculpatory Provisions
(a) shall be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
(b) shall have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Credit Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Majority Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Credit Documents), provided that Administrative Agent or an Issuing Lender shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent or such Issuing Lender to liability or that is contrary to any Credit Document or Legal Requirement; and
(c) shall, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Credit Documents, have any duty to disclose, nor shall it be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to any Borrower, any other Credit Party or any of their respective Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent, an Issuing Lender or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
None of the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Lenders shall be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Majority Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent or such Issuing Lender shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in Sections 10.2 and
 
7.1) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. None of the Administrative Agent, the Swingline Lender and the Issuing Lenders shall be deemed to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent, the Swingline Lender or such Issuing Lender by the Borrowers or a Lender Party.
None of the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Lenders shall be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Credit Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Credit Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article III or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent or satisfaction of any condition that expressly refers to the matters described therein being acceptable or satisfactory to such Agent or the Issuing Bank.
8.4 . Each of the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Lenders shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. Each of the Administrative Agents and the Issuing Lenders also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Credit Extension that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender or an Issuing Lender, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender or Issuing Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender or Issuing Lender prior to the making of such Credit Extension. The Administrative Agent or an Issuing Lender may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrowers), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
Reliance by Administrative Agent and the Issuing Lenders
8.5 . The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Credit Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
Delegation of Duties
8.6 . The Administrative Agent or an Issuing Lender may at any time give notice of its resignation to the other Lender Parties and the Borrowers. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Majority Lenders shall have the right, with the approval of the Borrowers unless an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, to appoint a successor Administrative Agent and/or a successor Issuing Lender. If no such successor shall have been so appointed and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after Wells Fargo gives notice of its resignation, then Wells Fargo may on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor agent with the approval of the Borrowers (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) unless an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. Once a Person has accepted such appointment, then such
Resignation of Administrative Agent or Issuing Lender
 
resignation shall become effective in accordance with such notice and such Person shall be discharged from its duties and obligations as Administrative Agent and/or Issuing Lender hereunder and under the other Credit Documents (except that such Issuing Lender shall remain the Issuing Lender with respect to any Letters of Credit outstanding on the effective date of its resignation and the provisions affecting the Issuing Lender with respect to such Letters of Credit shall inure to the benefit of such Person until the termination of all such Letters of Credit issued by such Person). Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent or Issuing Lender hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent or Issuing Lender, as applicable, and the retiring Administrative Agent or Issuing Lender, as applicable, shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Credit Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this paragraph). The fees payable by the Borrowers to a successor Administrative Agent or Issuing Lender, as applicable, shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrowers and such successor. After the retiring Administrative Agent's or Issuing Lender's resignation hereunder and under the other Credit Documents, the provisions of this Article and Sections 10.1(b), (c), and (d) and Section 2.3(h) shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent and Issuing Lender, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent or Issuing Lender, as applicable, was acting as Administrative Agent or Issuing Lender.
8.7 . Each Lender Party acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender Party or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender Party also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender Party or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Credit Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder. In this regard, each party hereto acknowledges that Bracewell & Giuliani LLP is acting in this transaction as special counsel to the Administrative Agent only. Each other party hereto will consult with its own legal counsel to the extent that it deems necessary in connection with the Credit Documents and the matters contemplated therein.
Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
Each Lender shall be deemed (a) by delivering its signature page to this Agreement and making any Advance on the Closing Date to have consented to, approved or accepted each Credit Document and each other document or other matter referred to in Section 3.1 required to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers or the Lenders and to have been satisfied with the satisfaction of all other conditions precedent required to be satisfied under Section 3.1 and (b) by making any Advance after the Closing Date to have been satisfied with the satisfaction of the conditions precedent required to be satisfied in connection therewith under Section 3.2.
8.8 . Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Joint Bookrunners, Arrangers, Syndication Agent and Documentation Agent listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Credit Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent, a Lender or an Issuing Lender hereunder.
No Other Duties, etc
 
9.1 . The obligations of each Borrower under this Agreement, the Notes and each other Credit Document areand absolute and unconditional irrespective of the value, genuineness, validity, regularity or enforceability of the obligations of the other Borrowers under this Agreement, the Notes or any other Credit Document (collectively, the ""), or any substitution, release or exchange of any other guarantee of or security for any of the Other Borrower Obligations, and, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, irrespective of any other circumstance whatsoever which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor, it being the intent of this Article 9 that the obligations of each Borrower under this Agreement shall be absolute and unconditional under any and all circumstances. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, it is agreed that the occurrence of any one or more of the following shall not affect the liability of any Borrower under this Agreement, the Notes or any other agreement referred to herein or therein:
Obligations Joint and Several and Unconditional
joint and several
Other Borrower Obligations
(a) at any time or from time to time, without notice to any Borrower, the time for any performance of or compliance with any of the Other Borrower Obligations shall be extended, or such performance or compliance shall be waived;
(b) any of the actions mentioned in any of the provisions of this Agreement or the Notes or any other agreement or instrument referred to herein or therein shall be taken or omitted;
(c) the maturity of any of the Other Borrower Obligations shall be accelerated, or any of the Other Borrower Obligations shall be modified, supplemented or amended in any respect, or any right under this Agreement or the Notes or any other Credit Document shall be waived or any other guarantee of any of the Other Borrower Obligations or any security therefor shall be released or exchanged in whole or in part or otherwise dealt with; or
(d) any lien or security interest granted to, or in favor of, the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Lender or any Lender or Lenders as security for any of the Other Borrower Obligations shall fail to be perfected.
Each Borrower hereby expressly waives, with respect to the Other Borrower Obligations, diligence, presentment, demand of payment, protest and all notices whatsoever, and any requirement that the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Lender or any Lender exhaust any right, power or remedy or proceed against the other Borrowers under this Agreement or the Notes or any other Credit Document, or against any other Person under any other guarantee of, or security for, any of the Other Borrower Obligations.
9.2 . The obligations of a Borrower under this Agreement, the Notes, the Credit Documents or any other agreement or instrument referred to herein or therein, shall be automatically reinstated if and to the extent that for any reason any payment by or on behalf of the other Borrowers in respect of the Other Borrower Obligations is rescinded or must be otherwise restored by any holder of any of the Other Borrower Obligations, whether as a result of any proceedings in a bankruptcy or reorganization or otherwise, and each Borrower agrees that it will indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Issuing Lender and each Lender on demand for all reasonable costs and expenses (including fees of counsel) incurred by the Administrative Agent or such Lender in connection with such rescission or restoration.
Reinstatement
9.3 . Each Borrower hereby agrees that until the termination of this Agreement, payment in full of the Obligations, the termination and return of all Letters of Credit (other than Letters of
Subrogation
 
Credit as to which arrangements satisfactory to the Issuing Lender in its sole discretion have been made) and termination in full of the Commitments, it shall not exercise any right or remedy arising by reason of any performance by it of any of its obligations hereunder, whether by subrogation or otherwise, against the Other Borrower Obligations or any security for any of the Other Borrower Obligations.
9.4 . Each Borrower agrees that, as between such Borrower and the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, (a) the obligations of the other Borrowers under this Agreement and the Notes may be declared to be forthwith due and payable as provided in Article 7 hereof (and shall be deemed to have become automatically due and payable in the circumstances provided in Section 7.1(f)) notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such declaration (or such obligations from being deemed to have become automatically due and payable) and (b) such obligations (whether or not due and payable by such other Borrowers) shall forthwith become due and payable by such Borrower.
Remedies
9.5 . Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained herein, in any of the Notes or any other Credit Document, to the extent the joint obligations of the Borrowers would be adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason (including because of applicable state or federal law relating to fraudulent conveyances or transfers) then the aggregate obligations of each Borrower hereunder and under the Notes and all other agreements and instruments referred to herein or therein shall be limited to the maximum amount that is permissible under applicable law (whether federal or state and including, with limitation, any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, or similar law affecting creditors' rights generally).
Limitation on Obligations
9.6 . Each Borrower hereby designates the Parent as its representative and agent on its behalf for the purposes of issuing Notices of Borrowing, Notices of Continuation or Conversions, delivering Compliance Certificates, giving instructions with respect to the disbursement of the proceeds of the Advances, selecting interest rate options, requesting, extending, increasing, and amending Letters of Credit, approving Eligible Assignees pursuant to Section 10.6(a)(iii), and for the purposes of giving and receiving all other notices and consents hereunder or under any of the other Credit Documents and taking all other actions on behalf of any Borrower or Borrowers under the Credit Documents. Borrower Representative hereby accepts such appointments. Unless otherwise expressly required hereunder, the Administrative Agent and each Lender may regard any notice or other communication pursuant to any Credit Document from Borrower Representative or from an individual Borrower as a notice or communication from all Borrowers, and may give any notice or communication required or permitted to be given to any Borrower or Borrowers hereunder to Borrower Representative or to a single Borrower on behalf of all Borrowers; provided that, the failure to give such notice to the Borrower Representative or any Borrower shall not release or diminish or otherwise affect in any way the Borrowers' obligation to pay any amounts owing under this Agreement or any other Credit Agreement or to otherwise comply with terms hereof or thereof. Each Borrower agrees that each action taken or omitted to be taken by, and any notices and consents received by the Borrower Representative or any Borrower, and any notice, election, representation and warranty, covenant, agreement and undertaking made on its behalf by Borrower Representative or any other Borrower shall be deemed for all purposes to have been made by such Borrower and shall be binding upon and enforceable against such Borrower to the same extent as if the same had been made directly by such Borrower.
Borrowers' Representative; Binding on All Borrowers
 
10.1 .
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
(a) . The Borrowers shall pay (i) all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Credit Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by Issuing Lender in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder and (iii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by any Lender Party (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Lender Party), in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Credit Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Advances made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Advances or Letters of Credit.
Costs and Expenses
(b) . Each Borrower shall, and does hereby indemnify, the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), each Lender and each Issuing Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "Indemnitee") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Credit Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder, the consummation of the Transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, or, in the case of the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Credit Documents, (ii) any Advance or Letter of Credit or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by an Issuing Lender to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Parent or any Subsidiary, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Parent or any Subsidiary, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by any Borrower or any other Credit Party, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; provided that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (i) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of or material breach of the Credit Documents by, such Indemnitee, if any Borrower or such other Credit Party has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or (ii) arise solely as the result of a dispute among or between Indemnitees and do not to any extent result from any act or omission on the part of any Credit Party or its Related Parties (as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction in a final, non-appealable judgment).
Indemnification by the Borrowers
, IN ALL CASES, WHETHER OR NOT CAUSED BY OR ARISING, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, OUT OF THE COMPARATIVE, CONTRIBUTORY OR SOLE NEGLIGENCE OF THE INDEMNITEE
(c) . To the extent that any Borrower for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under subsection (a) or (b) of this Section to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof), any Issuing Lender or any Related Party of any of the foregoing (and without limiting its obligation to do so), each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent), the Issuing Lenders or such Related Party, as the case may
Reimbursement by Lenders
 
be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, provided that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or an Issuing Lender in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or an Issuing Lender in connection with such capacity. The obligations of the Lenders under this subsection (c) are subject to the provisions of Section 2.5(e).
(d) . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no Credit Party shall assert, and each such party hereto hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Credit Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the Transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Advance or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof.
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc
(e) . No Indemnitee referred to in subsection (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed by it through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Credit Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby unless such damages result from a breach of the confidentiality provisions of Section 10.8 or except where the same are a result of such party's gross negligence or willful misconduct.
Electronic Communications
(f) . All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than ten Business Days after written demand therefor.
Payments
(g) . The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent and any Issuing Lender, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Revolving Commitments, termination or expiration of all Letters of Credit, and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
Survival
10.2 .
Waivers and Amendments
(a) No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, the Notes, or any other Credit Document, nor consent to any departure by any Credit Party therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Majority Lenders and the Borrowers, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; provided that, no such agreement shall:
(i) increase the Revolving Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender;
(ii) increase the aggregate Revolving Commitments other than pursuant to Section 2.1(d) as in effect on the date hereof without the written consent of each Lender;
(iii) reduce the principal amount of any Advance (other than prepayments or repayments in accordance with the terms of this Agreement) or reduce the amount of or rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby); provided, however, that only the consent of the Majority Lenders shall be required to waive any obligation of the Borrowers to pay default interest pursuant to Section 2.9(d) with respect to the Revolving Credit Facility, including with respect to any amount payable thereunder or in connection therewith;
 
(iv) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Advance, or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Revolving Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby;
(v) change Section 2.5(e), Section 7.6, this Section 10.2 or any other provision in any Credit Document which expressly requires the consent of, or action or waiver by, all of the Lenders, without the written consent of each Lender;
(vi) amend, modify or waive any provision in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments to or disbursements by Lenders required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender;
(vii) release any Guarantor from its obligation under any Guaranty except any Guarantor sold as permitted by Sections 6.7 and 6.8, without the written consent of each Lender;
(viii) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of "Majority Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender; provided further that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Lenders or the Swingline Lender hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Lenders or the Swingline Lender, as the case may be.
(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder or under any other Credit Document (and any amendment, waiver or consent which by its terms requires the consent of all Lenders, a majority in interest of Lenders under the Revolving Credit Facility or each affected Lender may be effected with the consent of the applicable Lenders other than Defaulting Lender); provided that any such amendment, waiver or consent referred to in clause (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) above that, but for this sentence, would require the prior written consent of such Defaulting Lender, will continue to require the consent of such Defaulting Lender; and provided further that any such amendment, waiver or consent requiring the consent of all Lenders or each affected Lender that by its terms affects any Defaulting Lender more adversely than any other Lender whose consent is so required shall require the consent of such Defaulting Lender.
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 10.2, Credit Documents executed by Subsidiaries in connection with this Agreement may be in a form reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent and may be, together with this Agreement, amended and waived with the consent of the Administrative Agent at the request of the Borrowers without the need to obtain the consent of any other Lender if such amendment or waiver is delivered in order (i) to comply with local Law or advice of local counsel, (ii) to cure ambiguities or defects or (iii) to cause such Credit Documents to be consistent with this Agreement and the other Credit Documents.
10.3 . In case one or more provisions of this Agreement or the other Credit Documents shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect under any applicable law, the validity, legality, and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein or therein shall not be affected or impaired thereby. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
 
10.4 . All representations and warranties contained in this Agreement or made in writing by or on behalf of the Borrowers in connection herewith shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the other Credit Documents, the making of Credit Extensions and any investigation made by or on behalf of the Lenders, none of which investigations shall diminish any Lender's right to rely on such representations and warranties. All obligations of the Borrowers provided for in Sections 2.11, 2.12, 2.14(b), and 10.1(a), (b) and (d) and all of the obligations of the Lenders in Section 10.1(c) and Section 10.8 shall survive any termination of this Agreement, repayment in full of the Obligations, and termination or expiration of all Letters of Credit.
Survival of Representations and Obligations
10.5 . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that no Borrower may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender Party and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (a) to an Eligible Assignee in accordance with the provisions of Section 10.6(a), (b) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of Sections 10.6(c) and 10.6(d) or (c) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of Section 10.6(e) (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in Section 10.6(c) and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and each Lender) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns Generally
10.6 .
Lender Assignments and Participations
(a) . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more Eligible Assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Revolving Commitment and the Advances at the time owing to it); provided that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
(i) .
Minimum Amounts
(A) in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Revolving Commitment under the Revolving Credit Facility or the Advances at the time owing to it under the Revolving Credit Facility or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
(B) in any case not described in paragraph (a)(i)(A) of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Revolving Commitment (which for this purpose includes Advances outstanding thereunder) or, if the applicable Revolving Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Advances of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Acceptance with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Acceptance, as of the Trade Date) shall not be less than $10,000,000, unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower Representative otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed);
 
provided, however, that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single Eligible Assignee (or to an Eligible Assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met.
(ii) . Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Advance or the Revolving Commitment assigned, except that this clause (ii) shall not prohibit any Lender from assigning all or a portion of its rights and obligations among separate Facilities on a non-pro rata basis.
Proportionate Amounts
(iii) . No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by paragraph (a)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
Required Consents
(A) the consent of the Borrower Representative (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for assignments if such assignment is to a Person that is not Lender under the Revolving Credit Facility, an Affiliate of such Lender or any Approved Fund with respect to such Lender, provided that no such consent shall be required if an Event of Default shall have occurred and is continuing; provided that the Borrower Representative shall be deemed to have consented to any such assignment unless it shall have objected thereto by written notice to the Administrative Agent within five (5) Business Days after having received notice thereof;
(B) the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for assignments if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender under the Revolving Credit Facility, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender; and
(C) the consent of the Issuing Bank and the Swingline Lender (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment.
(iv) . The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Acceptance, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500; provided, however, that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment; and provided, further, that only one such fee shall be payable in the event of contemporaneous assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single Eligible Assignee (or to an Eligible Assignee and members of its Assignee Group). The assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
Assignment and Acceptance
(v) . No such assignment shall be made to a natural person.
No Assignment to Natural Persons
(vi) . No assignment shall be made to any Defaulting Lender, Potential Defaulting Lender or any of their respective Subsidiaries, or any Person who, upon becoming a Lender hereunder, would constitute any of the foregoing Persons. No assignment shall be made to any Borrower or any Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries.
Defaulting Lenders; Borrowers
 
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance, the Eligible Assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.11, 2.12, 2.14(b), 10.1(a), 10.1(b), 10.1(c), and 10.1(d) with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this paragraph shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section.
In connection with any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder, no such assignment shall be effective unless and until, in addition to the other conditions thereto set forth herein, the parties to the assignment shall make such additional payments to the Administrative Agent in an aggregate amount sufficient, upon distribution thereof as appropriate (which may be outright payment, purchases by the assignee of participations or sub-participations, or other compensating actions, including funding, with the consent of the Borrowers and the Administrative Agent, the applicable pro rata share of Loans previously requested but not funded by the Defaulting Lender, to each of which the applicable assignee and assignor hereby irrevocably consent), to (x) pay and satisfy in full all payment liabilities then owed by such Defaulting Lender to the Administrative Agent or any Lender hereunder (and interest accrued thereon) and (y) acquire (and fund as appropriate) its full pro rata share of all Loans and participations in Letters of Credit in accordance with its Applicable Percentage. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any assignment of rights and obligations of any Defaulting Lender hereunder shall become effective under applicable law without compliance with the provisions of this paragraph, then the assignee of such interest shall be deemed to be a Defaulting Lender for all purposes of this Agreement until such compliance occurs.
(b) . The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrowers, shall maintain at one of its offices in Charlotte, North Carolina or Houston, Texas a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Revolving Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Advances owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the "Register"). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and the Borrowers and the Lender Parties may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. At any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice, the Register shall be available (i) for inspection by the Borrowers and (ii) for inspection by each Lender as to its Revolving Commitment and principal amount of Advances owing to it. No sale, assignment or other transfer of all or a portion of any Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement or any Note (or any right to a payment thereunder) shall be effective unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph; , , that any such sale, assignment, or other transfer of a Lender's rights and obligations not recorded in the Register shall be deemed a participation and subject to the provisions of clauses (c) and (d) below.
Register
provided
however
(c) . Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrowers, any other Credit Party or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or any Borrower or any Borrower's Affiliates or other Subsidiaries) (each, a "Participant") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Revolving Commitments and/or the Advances owing to it); provided that
Participations
 
(i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, (iii) the Borrowers and the Lender Parties shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender Party in connection with such Lender Party's rights and obligations under this Agreement and (iv) such Lender shall, acting solely for this purpose as the agent of the Borrowers, maintain a register on which it enters the name and address of each Participant and the principal amounts (and stated interest) of each Participant's interest in the Advances or other obligations under the Credit Documents.
Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; provided that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in clauses (a), (b), (c) or (d) of this Section 10.6 (that adversely affects such Participant). Subject to paragraph (d) of this Section, the Borrowers agree that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of, and subject to the requirements of, Sections 2.11, 2.12 and 2.14 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 7.4 as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.13(f) as though it were a Lender.
(d) . A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.12 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower Representative's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Non-US Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.14 unless such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrowers, to comply with Section 2.14(e), in which case Section 2.14 shall be applied as if such Participant had become a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section; provided that, in no event shall such Participant be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.14 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant.
Limitations upon Participant Rights
(e) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; provided that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
10.7 .
Notices, Etc
(a) . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in paragraph (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by facsimile as follows: (i) if to any Borrower, the Borrower Representative or any other Credit Party, at the applicable address (or facsimile numbers) set forth on Schedule IV; (ii) if to the Administrative Agent or an Issuing Lender, at the applicable address (or facsimile numbers) set forth on Schedule IV; and (iii) if to a Lender, to it at its address (or facsimile number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire. Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by facsimile shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in paragraph (b) below, shall be effective as provided in said paragraph (b).
Notices Generally
 
(b) .
Electronic Communications
(i) The Borrowers and the Lenders agree that the Administrative Agent may make any material delivered by any Borrower, the Borrower Representative or any other Credit Party to the Administrative Agent, as well as any amendments, waivers, consents, and other written information, documents, instruments and other materials relating to any Borrower or any other Subsidiary, or any other materials or matters relating to this Agreement, the Notes or any of the transactions contemplated hereby (collectively, the "Communications") available to the Lenders by posting such notices on an electronic delivery system (which may be provided by the Administrative Agent, an Affiliate of the Administrative Agent, or any Person that is not an Affiliate of the Administrative Agent), such as IntraLinks, or a substantially similar electronic system (the "Platform"); provided that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender or Issuing Lender pursuant to Article II if such Lender or Issuing Lender, as applicable, has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Borrowers acknowledge that (i) the distribution of material through an electronic medium is not necessarily secure and that there are confidentiality and other risks associated with such distribution, (ii) the Platform is provided "as is" and "as available" and (iii) none of the Administrative Agent nor any of their respective Affiliates warrants the accuracy, completeness, timeliness, sufficiency, or sequencing of the Communications posted on the Platform. The Administrative Agent and their respective Affiliates expressly disclaim with respect to the Platform any liability for errors in transmission, incorrect or incomplete downloading, delays in posting or delivery, or problems accessing the Communications posted on the Platform and any liability for any losses, costs, expenses or liabilities that may be suffered or incurred in connection with the Platform. No warranty of any kind, express, implied or statutory, including, without limitation, any warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement of third party rights or freedom from viruses or other code defects, is made by the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in connection with the Platform. Nothing in this Section 10.7(b) shall relieve the Administrative Agent or any Lender from their obligations under Section 10.8.
(ii) Each Lender agrees that notice to it (as provided in the next sentence) (a "Notice") specifying that any Communication has been posted to the Platform shall for purposes of this Agreement constitute effective delivery to such Lender of such information, documents or other materials comprising such Communication. Each Lender agrees (i) to notify, on or before the date such Lender becomes a party to this Agreement, the Administrative Agent in writing of such Lender's e-mail address to which a Notice may be sent (and from time to time thereafter to ensure that the Agent has on record an effective e-mail address for such Lender) and (ii) that any Notice may be sent to such e-mail address.
(c) . Any party hereto may change its address or facsimile number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto.
Change of Address, Etc
10.8 . The Administrative Agent, each Lender and each Issuing Lender agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and other representatives (the "Representatives") (it being understood that the Representative to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any
Confidentiality
 
regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Credit Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Credit Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Parent or any Subsidiary and their respective obligations, (g) with the consent of any Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to any Lender Party or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than a Credit Party. For purposes of this Section, "Information" means all information received from the Parent or any Subsidiary relating to the Parent or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to Lender Party on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Parent or any Subsidiary. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information. The Administrative Agent, each Lender and each Issuing Lender agrees to be responsible for any breaches of this Section 10.8 by its Representatives.
10.9 .
[Reserved]
10.10 . It is the intent of the Borrowers and each Lender in the execution and performance of this Agreement and the other Credit Documents to contract in strict compliance with applicable usury laws, including conflicts of law concepts, governing the Advances of each Lender including such applicable laws of the State of New York, the United States from time to time in effect, and any other jurisdiction whose laws may be mandatorily applicable to such Lender notwithstanding the other provisions of this Agreement. In furtherance thereof, the Lenders and the Borrowers stipulate and agree that none of the terms and provisions contained in this Agreement or the other Credit Documents shall ever be construed to create a contract to pay, as consideration for the use, forbearance or detention of money, interest at a rate in excess of the Maximum Rate and that for purposes of this Agreement and all other Credit Documents, "interest" shall include the aggregate of all charges which constitute interest under such laws that are contracted for, charged or received under this Agreement or any other Credit Document; and in the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, under any circumstances the aggregate amounts taken, reserved, charged, received or paid on the Obligations, include amounts which by applicable law are deemed interest which would exceed the Maximum Rate, then such excess shall be deemed to be a mistake and each Lender receiving same shall credit the same on the principal of the Obligations owing to such Lender (or if all such Obligations shall have been paid in full, refund said excess to the Borrowers). In the event that the maturity of the Obligations are accelerated by reason of any election of the holder thereof resulting from any Event of Default under this Agreement or otherwise, or in the event of any required or permitted prepayment, then such consideration that constitutes interest may never include more than the Maximum Rate, and excess interest, if any, provided for in this Agreement or otherwise shall be canceled automatically as of the date of such acceleration or prepayment and, if theretofore paid, shall be credited on the applicable Obligations (or, if the applicable Obligations shall have been paid in full, refunded to the Borrowers of such interest). In determining whether or not the interest paid or payable under any specific contingencies exceeds the Maximum Rate, the Borrowers and the Lenders shall to the maximum extent permitted under applicable law amortize, prorate, allocate and spread in equal parts during the period of the full stated term of the Advances all amounts considered to be interest under applicable law at any time contracted for, charged, received or reserved in connection with the Obligations. The provisions of this Section shall control over all other provisions of this Agreement or the other Credit Documents which may be in apparent conflict herewith.
Usury Not Intended
 
10.11 In the event the rate of interest chargeable under this Agreement or any other Credit Document at any time is greater than the Maximum Rate, the unpaid principal amount of the Obligations shall bear interest at the Maximum Rate until the total amount of interest paid or accrued on the Obligations equals the amount of interest which would have been paid or accrued on the Advances if the stated rates of interest set forth in this Agreement or applicable Credit Document had at all times been in effect. In the event, upon payment in full of the Obligations, the total amount of interest paid or accrued under the terms of this Agreement and the Obligations is less than the total amount of interest which would have been paid or accrued if the rates of interest set forth in this Agreement or such Credit Document had, at all times, been in effect, then the Borrowers shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, pay the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable Lender Party an amount equal to the difference between (i) the lesser of (A) the amount of interest which would have been charged on Obligations owed to it if the Maximum Rate had, at all times, been in effect and (B) the amount of interest which would have accrued on such Obligations if the rates of interest set forth in this Agreement had at all times been in effect and (ii) the amount of interest actually paid under this Agreement or any Credit Document on Obligations owed to it. In the event the any Lender Party ever receive, collect or apply as interest any sum in excess of the Maximum Rate, such excess amount shall, to the extent permitted by law, be applied to the reduction of the principal balance of the Obligations, and if no such principal is then outstanding, such excess or part thereof remaining shall be paid to the Borrowers.
.
Usury Recapture
10.12 To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of the Borrowers or any other Credit Party is made to any Lender Party, or any Lender Party exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by any Lender Party in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (b) each Lender and each Issuing Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect, in the applicable currency of such recovery or payment. The obligations of the Lenders and the Issuing Lenders under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
.
Payments Set Aside
10.13 .
Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction
(a) . This Agreement, the Notes and the other Credit Documents (unless otherwise expressly provided therein) shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
(b) . Each Credit Party irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any Federal or New York state court sitting in New York City, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any other Credit Document, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State court or, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be
Submission to Jurisdiction
 
enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement or in any other Credit Document shall affect any right that any Lender Party may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Credit Document against any Credit Party or its properties in the courts of any jurisdiction.
(c) . Each Credit Party irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any other Credit Document in any court referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
Waiver of Venue
(d) . Each Credit Party hereby agrees that service of copies of the summons and complaint and any other process which may be served in any such action or proceeding may be made by mailing or delivering a copy of such process to such Credit Party at its address set forth in this Agreement and in the manner provided for notices in Section 10.7 or in accordance with Section 10.19. Nothing in this Section shall affect the rights of any Lender Party to serve legal process in any other manner permitted by any applicable Legal Requirement or affect the right of any Lender to bring any action or proceeding against any Borrower or its Property in the courts of any other jurisdiction.
Service of Process
10.14 .
Execution
(a) . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and the other Credit Documents, and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Administrative Agent, constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof.
Execution in Counterparts
(b) . The words "execution," "signed," "signature," and words of like import in any Assignment and Acceptance shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, or any state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
Electronic Execution of Assignments
10.15 . EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER CREDIT DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER CREDIT DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
Waiver of Jury
 
10.16 Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies each Credit Party that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the "Act"), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each Credit Party, which information includes the name and address of each Credit Party and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify each Credit Party in accordance with the Act. Promptly following a request from the Administrative Agent, a Lender, or Issuing Lender, each Credit Party hereby agree to deliver all documentation and other information that the Administrative Agent, a Lender, or an Issuing Lender, as applicable, may reasonably request in order to comply with its ongoing obligations under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the Act.
.
USA PATRIOT ACT Notice
10.17 Each Lender Party may have economic interests that conflict with those of the Borrowers. The Borrowers agree that nothing in the Credit Documents or otherwise will be deemed to create an advisory, fiduciary or agency relationship or fiduciary or other implied duty between any Lender Party and any Borrower, its stockholders or its affiliates. Each Borrower acknowledges and agrees that (a) the transactions contemplated by the Credit Documents are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Lender Parties, on the one hand, and each Borrower, on the other, (b) in connection therewith and with the process leading to such transaction each of the Lender Parties is acting solely as a principal and not the agent or fiduciary of any Borrower, its management, stockholders, creditors or any other person, (c) no Lender Party has assumed an advisory or fiduciary responsibility in favor of any Borrower with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether any Lender Party or any of its affiliates has advised or is currently advising any Borrower on other matters) or any other obligation to any Borrower except the obligations expressly set forth in the Credit Documents and (d) each Borrower has consulted its own legal and financial advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate. Each Borrower further acknowledges and agrees that it is responsible for making its own independent judgment with respect to such transactions and the process leading thereto. Each Borrower agrees that it will not claim that any Lender Party has rendered advisory services of any nature or respect, or owes a fiduciary or similar duty to such Borrower, in connection with such transaction or the process leading thereto.
.
No Fiduciary Duty
10.18 If, for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder or any other Credit Document in one currency into another currency, the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Administrative Agent could purchase the first currency with such other currency on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given. The obligation of any Credit Party in respect of any such sum due from it to the Administrative Agent or any Lender hereunder or under the other Credit Documents shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "") other than that in which such sum is denominated in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement (the ""), be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Administrative Agent or any Lender from any Credit Party in the Agreement Currency, such Credit Party agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, against such loss. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is greater than the sum originally due to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in such currency, the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, agrees to return the amount of any excess to the applicable Credit Party (or to any other Person who may be entitled thereto under applicable law).
.
Judgment Currency
Judgment Currency
Agreement Currency
 
10.19 The Parent and each other Guarantor not incorporated or organized under the laws of the United States, any State thereof or the District of Columbia (each, a "") hereby appoints, and shall maintain the appointment of, CT Corporation System (the ""), with an office at 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, NY 10011, as its agent to receive on behalf of it and its properties service of copies of the summons and complaint and any other process which may be served in any such action or proceeding. Such service may be made by mailing by certified mail a copy of such process to any Foreign Credit Party, in care of the Process Agent at the Process Agent's above address, with a copy to such Foreign Credit Party at its address set forth on Schedule IV, and each Foreign Credit Party hereby irrevocably authorizes and directs the Process Agent to accept such service on its behalf. As an alternative method of service, each Foreign Credit Party also irrevocably consents to the service of any and all process in any such action or proceeding by the mailing by certified mail of copies of such process to it at its address set forth on Schedule IV. Each Foreign Credit Party agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Section shall affect the right of any Lender Party to serve legal process in any other manner permitted by any applicable Legal Requirement or affect the right of any Lender to bring any suit, action or proceeding against any Foreign Credit Party or its property in the courts of other jurisdictions.
.
Appointment of Process Agent
Foreign Credit Party
Process Agent
 
The Applicable Margin with respect to each Type and Class of Advance, the Letters of Credit and the Commitment Fees shall be determined in accordance with the following table based on the Parent's Debt Rating. Adjustments, if any, to such Applicable Margin shall be effective on the date of a publicly announced change in a Debt Rating and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change.
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, the rating as determined by either S&P or Moody's (collectively, the "") of the Parent's secured unsecured debt; provided that (a) if a Debt Rating is issued by each of the foregoing rating agencies, then the higher of such Debt Ratings shall apply (with the Debt Rating for Pricing Level I being the highest and the Debt Rating for Pricing Level V being the lowest), unless there is a split in Debt Ratings of more than one Pricing Level, in which case the Applicable Margin shall be determined by reference to the Pricing Level next below that of the higher of the Debt Ratings; (b) if either Moody's or S&P (but not both) shall have in effect a Debt Rating, then the Pricing Level shall be determined by the Debt Rating issued by either Moody's or S&P, as the case may be; (c) if neither Moody's nor S&P shall have in effect a Debt Rating (other than by reason of the circumstances referred to in clause (d) of this definition), then the Pricing Level shall be deemed to be Pricing Level V; and (d) if the rating system of Moody's or S&P shall change, or if both such rating agencies shall cease to be in the business of rating corporate debt obligations, the Parent and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith to amend this definition to reflect such changed rating system or the unavailability of ratings from such rating agencies and, pending the effectiveness of any such amendment, the Applicable Margin shall be determined by reference to the rating most recently in effect prior to such change or cessation. For purposes of this definition, "Pricing Level" refers to the corresponding row of the table set forth in the definition of "Applicable Margin".
Debt Rating
Debt Ratings
 
 
 
None.
 
 
 
 
Atlantic Maritime Services LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
RDC Qatar, Inc., a Delaware corporation
Rowan Finance LLC, a Delaware limited liability company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lien in connection with Participation Agreement dated December 1, 1984 between the Company and Textron Financial Corporation et al. and Bareboat Charter dated December 1, 1984 between the Company and Textron Financial Corporation et al., as same has been extended by election to renew dated September 14, 1999.
Lien in connection with 2.8% U. S. Government Guaranteed Ship Financing Obligations, Gorilla VII Series, due October 2013, secured by mobile offshore drilling unit .
Rowan Gorilla VII
Lien in connection with 3.158% U. S. Government Guaranteed Ship Financing Obligations, Gorilla VIII Series, due July 2021, secured by mobile offshore drilling unit .
Bob Palmer
Lien in connection with 4.33% U. S. Government Guaranteed Ship Financing Obligations, Scooter Yeargain Series, due May 2019, secured by mobile offshore drilling unit .
Scooter Yeargain
Lien in connection with 3.525% U. S. Government Guaranteed Ship Financing Obligations, Tarzan II Series, due May 2020, secured by mobile offshore drilling unit .
Bob Keller
 
Each of the undersigned (each, a "") hereby (a) acknowledges receipt of a copy of the foregoing Amendment No. 2 to Credit Agreement dated as of May 4, 2012 (the "") between Rowan Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), Rowan Companies plc, an English public limited company (the "" and together with the Existing Borrower, each a "" and collectively, the ""), the Lenders party thereto, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as an issuing lender, as swing line lender, and as administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the "") and (b) reaffirms its obligations under the Material Subsidiary Guaranty (as defined in the Credit Agreement referred to in the Amendment) to which it is a party.
Material Subsidiary
Amendment
Existing Borrower
Parent
Borrower
Borrowers
Administrative Agent
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
Execution Version
This Parent Guaranty dated as of May 4, 2012 (as amended, supplemented, amended and restated or otherwise modified from time to time, this "") is executed by the undersigned (the "") in favor of Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent for the ratable benefit of the Lender Parties (as defined in the Credit Agreement referred to below).
Guaranty
Parent
A. Rowan Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "", and together with the Parent, each a "" and collectively, the ""), the Lender Parties party thereto from time to time, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, Swingline Lender, and Issuing Lender, are parties to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of September 16, 2010, as amended by that certain Amendment No. 1 dated as of June 30, 2011 (as so amended, and as may be further amended, supplemented, amended and restated or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""; the defined terms of which are used herein unless otherwise defined herein).
Existing Borrower
Borrower
Borrowers
Credit Agreement
B. This Guaranty is given in connection with that certain Amendment No. 2 to Credit Agreement dated as of May 4, 2012 (the "") among the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the Lender Parties party thereto.
Amendment
C. It is a requirement under the Amendment that the Parent guarantee the due payment and performance of all Obligations.
D. The Parent is executing and delivering this Guaranty (a) to induce the Lenders to provide and continue to provide Advances under the Credit Agreement, (b) to induce the Issuing Lenders to provide and continue to provide Letters of Credit under the Credit Agreement, and (c) intending it to be a legal, valid, binding, enforceable and continuing obligation of the Parent.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the Parent, for the benefit of the Lender Parties, does hereby further agree as follows:
The Parent hereby absolutely and unconditionally guarantees, as a guaranty of payment and performance and not merely as a guaranty of collection, prompt payment when due, whether at stated maturity, by required prepayment, upon acceleration, demand or otherwise, and at all times thereafter, of all Obligations, whether direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, liquidated or unliquidated, voluntary or involuntary and whether for principal, interest, premiums, fees indemnities, damages, costs, expenses or otherwise, under the Credit Documents (including all renewals, extensions, amendments, refinancings and other modifications thereof and all costs, attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by the Lender Parties in connection with the collection or enforcement thereof), and whether recovery upon such Obligations may be or hereafter become unenforceable or shall be an allowed or disallowed claim under any proceeding or case commenced by or against the Parent or any Credit Party under Debtor Relief Laws, and including interest that accrues after the commencement by or against any Credit Party of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws (collectively, the ""). Any Lender Party's books and records showing the amount of the Guaranteed Obligations shall be admissible in evidence in any action or proceeding, and shall be binding upon the Parent and conclusive for the purpose of establishing the amount of the Guaranteed Obligations. This Guaranty shall not be affected by the genuineness, validity, regularity or enforceability of the Guaranteed Obligations or any instrument or agreement evidencing any Guaranteed Obligations, or by the existence, validity,
1.
Guaranty.
Guaranteed Obligations
enforceability, perfection, non-perfection or extent of any collateral therefor, or by any fact or circumstance relating to the Guaranteed Obligations which might otherwise constitute a defense to the obligations of the Parent under this Guaranty, and the Parent hereby irrevocably waives any defenses it may now have or hereafter acquire in any way relating to any or all of the foregoing. Anything contained herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the obligations of the Parent hereunder at any time shall be limited to an aggregate amount equal to the largest amount that would not render its obligations hereunder subject to avoidance as a fraudulent transfer or conveyance under Section 548 of the Bankruptcy Code (Title 11, United States Code) or any comparable provisions of any similar United States federal or state law, or applicable foreign law.
The Parent shall make all payments hereunder without setoff or counterclaim and free and clear of and without deduction for any taxes, levies, imposts, duties, charges, fees, deductions, withholdings, compulsory loans, restrictions or conditions of any nature now or hereafter imposed or levied by any jurisdiction or any political subdivision thereof or taxing or other authority therein unless the Parent is compelled by law to make such deduction or withholding. If any such obligation (other than Excluded Taxes) is imposed upon the Parent with respect to any amount payable by it hereunder, the Parent will pay to such Lender Party, on the date on which such amount is due and payable hereunder, such additional amount in U.S. dollars as shall be necessary to enable such Lender Party to receive the same net amount which such Lender Party would have received on such due date had no such obligation been imposed upon the Parent. The Parent will deliver promptly to the applicable Lender Party certificates or other valid vouchers for all taxes or other charges deducted from or paid with respect to payments made by the Parent hereunder. The obligations of the Parent under this paragraph shall survive the payment in full of the Guaranteed Obligations and termination of this Guaranty.
2. No Setoff or Deductions; Taxes; Payments.
The Parent consents and agrees that the Lender Parties may, at any time and from time to time, without notice or demand, and without affecting the enforceability or continuing effectiveness hereof: (a) amend, extend, renew, compromise, discharge, accelerate in accordance with the Credit Agreement or otherwise change the time for payment or the terms of the Guaranteed Obligations or any part thereof; (b) take, hold, exchange, enforce, waive, release, fail to perfect, sell, or otherwise dispose of any security for the payment of this Guaranty or any Guaranteed Obligations; (c) to the extent permitted by law, apply such security and direct the order or manner of sale thereof as the Lender in its sole discretion may determine; and (d) release or substitute one or more of any endorsers or other guarantors of any of the Guaranteed Obligations. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Parent consents to the taking of, or failure to take, any action which might in any manner or to any extent vary the risks of the Parent under this Guaranty or which, but for this provision, might operate as a discharge of the Parent.
3. Rights of Lender.
The Parent waives (a) any defense arising by reason of any disability or other defense of the other Borrower or any other guarantor, or the cessation from any cause whatsoever (including any act or omission of the Lender) of the liability of the other Borrower; (b) any defense based on any claim that the Parent's obligations exceed or are more burdensome than those of the other Borrower; (c) the benefit of any statute of limitations affecting the Parent's liability hereunder; (d) any right to require the Lender Parties to proceed against the other Borrower or any other guarantor, proceed against or exhaust any security for the Obligations, or pursue any other remedy in any Lender Party's power whatsoever; (e) any benefit of and any right to participate in any security now or hereafter held by any Lender Party; and (f) to the fullest extent permitted by law, any and all other defenses or benefits that may be derived from or afforded by applicable law limiting the liability of or exonerating guarantors or sureties. The Parent expressly waives all setoffs and counterclaims and all presentments, demands for payment or performance, notices of nonpayment or nonperformance, protests, notices of protest, notices of dishonor and all other notices or demands of any kind or nature whatsoever with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations, and all notices of acceptance of this Guaranty or of the existence, creation or incurrence of new or additional Guaranteed Obligations.
4. Certain Waivers.
 
. The obligations of the Parent hereunder are those of primary obligor, and not merely as surety, and are independent of the Guaranteed Obligations and the obligations of any other guarantor, and a separate action may be brought against the Parent to enforce this Guaranty whether or not the other Borrower or any other person or entity is joined as a party.
5. Obligations Independent
The Parent shall not exercise any right of subrogation, contribution, indemnity, reimbursement or similar rights with respect to any payments it makes under this Guaranty until all of the Guaranteed Obligations and any amounts payable under this Guaranty have been indefeasibly paid and performed in full and any commitments of the Lender Parties or facilities provided by the Lender Parties with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations are terminated. If any amounts are paid to the Parent in violation of the foregoing limitation, then such amounts shall be held in trust for the benefit of the Lender Parties and shall forthwith be paid to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lender Parties to reduce the amount of the Guaranteed Obligations, whether matured or unmatured.
6. Subrogation.
This Guaranty is a continuing and irrevocable guaranty of all Guaranteed Obligations now or hereafter existing and shall remain in full force and effect until all Guaranteed Obligations and any other amounts payable under this Guaranty are indefeasibly paid in full in cash, all Letters of Credit have expired, terminated or been cash collateralized and the Revolving Commitments of the Lender Parties with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations are terminated. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Guaranty shall continue in full force and effect or be revived, as the case may be, if any payment by or on behalf of the Borrowers, any Credit Party or the Parent is made, or any Lender Party exercises its right of setoff, in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by a Lender Party in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws or otherwise, all as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred and whether or not any Lender Party is in possession of or has released this Guaranty and regardless of any prior revocation, rescission, termination or reduction. The obligations of the Parent under this paragraph shall survive termination of this Guaranty.
7. Termination; Reinstatement.
The Parent hereby subordinates the payment of any obligation of any Credit Party to the Parent as subrogee of the Lender Parties or resulting from the Parent's performance under this Guaranty, to the indefeasible payment in full in cash of all Guaranteed Obligations. If the Administrative Agent so requests, any such obligation or indebtedness of any Credit Party to the Parent shall be enforced and performance received by the Parent as trustee for the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lender Parties and the proceeds thereof shall be paid over to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Lender Parties on account of the Guaranteed Obligations, but without reducing or affecting in any manner the liability of the Parent under this Guaranty.
8. Subordination.
In the event that acceleration of the time for payment of any of the Guaranteed Obligations is stayed, in connection with any case commenced by or against the Parent or the other Borrower under any Debtor Relief Laws, or otherwise, all such amounts shall nonetheless be payable by the Parent immediately upon demand by the Administrative Agent.
9. Stay of Acceleration.
. The Parent shall pay on demand all out-of-pocket expenses (including attorneys' fees and expenses and the allocated cost and disbursements of internal legal counsel) in any way relating to the enforcement or protection of the Administrative Agent or any Lender Party's rights under this Guaranty or in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations, including any incurred during any
10. Expenses
 
"workout" or restructuring in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations and any incurred in the preservation, protection or enforcement of any rights of the Administrative Agent or any Lender Party in any proceeding any Debtor Relief Laws. The obligations of the Parent under this paragraph shall survive the payment in full of the Guaranteed Obligations and termination of this Guaranty.
No provision of this Guaranty may be waived, amended, supplemented or modified, except by a written instrument executed by the Administrative Agent, the Majority Lenders and the Parent. No failure by the Administrative Agent or any Lender Party to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right, remedy or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy or power hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or remedy. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law or in equity. The unenforceability or invalidity of any provision of this Guaranty shall not affect the enforceability or validity of any other provision herein. Unless otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent, the Majority Lenders and the Parent in writing, this Guaranty is not intended to supersede or otherwise affect any other guaranty now or hereafter given by the Parent for the benefit of the Lender Parties or any term or provision thereof.
11. Miscellaneous.
The Parent acknowledges and agrees that it has the sole responsibility for, and has adequate means of, obtaining from the other Borrower and any other guarantor such information concerning the financial condition, business and operations of the other Borrower and any such other guarantor as the Parent requires, and that the Lender Parties have no duty, and the Parent is not relying on the Administrative Agent or any other Lender Party at any time, to disclose to the Parent any information relating to the business, operations or financial condition of the other Borrower or any other guarantor (the guarantor waiving any duty on the part of the Administrative Agent or any Lender Party to disclose such information and any defense relating to the failure to provide the same).
12. Condition of the other Borrower.
If and to the extent any payment is not made when due hereunder, the Administrative Agent or any other Lender Party may setoff and charge from time to time any amount so due against any or all of the Parent's accounts or deposits with such Lender Party.
13. Setoff.
The Parent represents and warrants that (a) it is duly organized and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization and has full capacity and right to make and perform this Guaranty, and all necessary authority has been obtained; (b) this Guaranty constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation enforceable in accordance with its terms; (c) the making and performance of this Guaranty does not and will not violate the provisions of any applicable law, regulation or order, and does not and will not result in the breach of, or constitute a default or require any consent under, any material agreement, instrument, or document to which it is a party or by which it or any of its property may be bound or affected; and (d) all consents, approvals, licenses and authorizations of, and filings and registrations with, any governmental authority required under applicable law and regulations for the making and performance of this Guaranty have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect.
14. Representations and Warranties.
Without limitation on any other obligations of the Parent or remedies of the Administrative Agent or any other Lender Party under this Guaranty, the Parent shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, indemnify, defend and save and hold harmless the Administrative Agent and the other Lender Parties from and against, and shall pay on demand, any and all damages, losses, liabilities and expenses (including attorneys' fees and expenses and the allocated cost and disbursements of internal legal counsel) that may be suffered or incurred by the Administrative Agent or such Lender Party in connection with or as a result of any failure of any Guaranteed Obligations to be the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrowers enforceable against the Borrowers in accordance with their terms. The obligations of the Parent under this paragraph shall survive the payment in full of the Guaranteed Obligations and termination of this Guaranty.
15. Indemnification and Survival.
 
This Guaranty shall (a) bind the Parent and its successors and assigns, provided that the Parent may not assign its rights or obligations under this Guaranty without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and the Majority Lenders or the Lenders, as required by the Credit Agreement (and any attempted assignment without such consent shall be void), and (b) inure to the benefit of the Administrative Agent, and the other Lender Parties and their respective successors and assigns and each Lender Party may, without notice to the Parent and without affecting the Parent's obligations hereunder, assign, sell or grant participations in the Guaranteed Obligations and this Guaranty, in whole or in part, to the extent permitted by the Credit Agreement. The Parent hereby irrevocably (i) submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of any United States Federal or New York state court sitting in New York City in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Guaranty, and (ii) waives to the fullest extent permitted by law any defense asserting an inconvenient forum in connection therewith. Service of process by the Administrative Agent or any Lender Party in connection with such action or proceeding shall be binding on the Parent if sent to the Parent by registered or certified mail at the address for the Parent specified in the Credit Agreement and in the manner provided for notices in Section 9.7 of the Credit Agreement or Section 9.19 of the Credit Agreement.
16. GOVERNING LAW; Assignment; Jurisdiction; Notices. THIS GUARANTY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
TO THE EXTENT ALLOWED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE PARENT AND EACH LENDER PARTY EACH IRREVOCABLY WAIVES TRIAL BY JURY WITH RESPECT TO ANY ACTION, CLAIM, SUIT OR PROCEEDING ON, ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS GUARANTY OR THE GUARANTEED OBLIGATIONS. THIS GUARANTY REPRESENTS THE FINAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES AND MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS, OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE PARTIES. THERE ARE NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE PARTIES.
17. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL; FINAL AGREEMENT.
 
Executed as of the day, month and year first written above.
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
 
 
This Deed of Assumption relating to the equity incentive plans of Rowan Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), is made on 4 May 2012 by (incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 07805263) whose registered office is at Mitre House, 160 Aldersgate Street, London, EC1A 4DD (the "").
Rowan Delaware
ROWAN COMPANIES PUBLIC LIMITED COMPANY
Company
the board of directors and the stockholders of Rowan Delaware have approved the Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization (the ""), by and between Rowan Delaware and Rowan Mergeco LLC, a newly formed Delaware limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of Rowan Delaware (""), pursuant to which Rowan Mergeco will merge with and into Rowan Delaware (the ""), with Rowan Delaware surviving the Merger as an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of the Company;
WHEREAS,
Merger Agreement
Rowan Mergeco
Merger
, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, each issued and outstanding share of Rowan Delaware common stock will be converted, on a one-for-one basis, into the right to receive one Class A Ordinary Share of the Company (a "Share");
WHEREAS
, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, each award granted by Rowan Delaware under the Remaining Plans (as defined below) that is outstanding at the effective time of the Merger and that relates to shares of Rowan Delaware common stock shall, as of the effective time of the Merger, relate instead to Shares;
WHEREAS
, in connection with the Merger Agreement, the board of directors of Rowan Delaware approved certain amendments to the Assumed Plan (as defined below) and the Remaining Plans as necessary or appropriate to (i) facilitate the assumption and adoption by the Company of the Assumed Plan and the issuance of Shares or rights or amounts related to Shares under the Assumed Plan by the Company, (ii) reflect the issuance of Shares or rights or amounts related to Shares (rather than shares or rights or amounts related to shares of Rowan Delaware common stock) under the Remaining Plans, (iii) provide that the board of directors of the Company (or an appropriate committee thereof) shall administer the Remaining Plans, and (iv) comply with applicable English or U.S. corporate or tax law requirements;
WHEREAS
, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, the Company proposes to adopt and assume the 2009 Rowan Companies, Inc. Incentive Plan, as amended (""), for purposes of granting awards in the future to employees of the Company and its subsidiaries and (under Annex 1 to the 2009 Plan) to non-employee directors of the Company (the "");
WHEREAS
2009 Plan
Assumed Plan
, the board of directors of the Company agrees that it (or an appropriate committee of thereof) shall administer outstanding awards granted by Rowan Delaware under the 2009 Plan or under the 2005 Rowan Companies, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan, Rowan Companies, Inc. 1998 Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan, and Rowan Companies, Inc. Restated 1988 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan, each as amended (such awards and plans referred to herein as the "");
WHEREAS
Remaining Plans
, the board of directors of the Company has been presented with and has approved the forms of award notices for the Company to use in connection with awards granted in the future under the Assumed Plan, such forms of award notices being based, to the extent possible, on the forms of award notices previously used by Rowan Delaware in connection with awards granted under the 2009 Plan;
WHEREAS
NOW THIS DEED WITNESSES AS FOLLOWS:
The Company hereby declares, undertakes and agrees that, as of the effective time of the Merger, it shall:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
this Deed of Assumption has been executed by the Company on the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
. This 2009 Rowan Companies, Inc. Incentive Plan, as amended and restated and as assumed and adopted by the Company (as defined below), effective May 4, 2012, and as amended from time to time (the ""), is intended to promote the interests of the Company and its shareholders by promoting performance and encouraging Employees of the Company or its Affiliates (as defined below) to acquire or increase their equity interests in the Company, thereby giving them an added incentive to work toward the continued growth and success of the Company. The Board of Directors of the Company (the "") also contemplates that through the Plan the Company and its Affiliates will be better able to compete for the services of the individuals needed for the continued growth and success of the Company. The Plan provides for payment of various forms of incentive compensation, and accordingly, is not intended to be a plan that is subject to the U.S. Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and shall be administered accordingly. The Plan replaces the 2005 Rowan Companies, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "") and no further awards shall be made under the Prior Plan after the Effective Date hereof.
1.1 Purpose
Plan
Board
Prior Plan
. As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
1.2 Definitions
"" means the U.K. Companies Act of 2006.
Act
"" means (i) any entity in which the Company, directly or indirectly, owns 50% or more of the combined voting power, as determined by the Committee, (ii) any "parent corporation" of the Company (as defined in Code Section 424(e)), (iii) any "subsidiary corporation" of any such parent corporation (as defined in Code Section 424(f)) of the Company and (iv) any trades or businesses, whether or not incorporated which are members of a controlled group or are under common control (as defined in Code Sections 414(b) or (c)) with the Company. For the purposes of the definition of Employee, Affiliate shall mean any company which is a subsidiary or holding company of the Company, or which is a subsidiary of a holding company of the Company, within the meaning given to those terms in Section 1159 of the Act.
Affiliate
"" means, collectively, Options, Bonus Shares, Share Appreciation Rights, Restricted Share Units, Restricted Shares, or Performance Awards.
Awards
"" has the meaning set forth in of the Plan.
Board
Section 1.1
"" means Shares described in of the Plan.
Bonus Shares
Article IV
 
"" shall be deemed to have occurred upon any of the following events:
Change in Control
(a) any "person" (as defined in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, and as modified in Section 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) other than (i) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) any employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (iii) any Affiliate, (iv) a company owned, directly or indirectly, by shareholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Company or (v) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities (a "Person"), becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing more than 50% of the voting shares of the Company then outstanding;
(b) the consummation of any merger, organization, business combination or consolidation of the Company or one of its subsidiaries with or into any other entity, other than a merger, reorganization, business combination or consolidation which would result in the holders of the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto holding securities which represent immediately after such merger, reorganization, business combination or consolidation more than 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or the surviving company or the parent of such surviving company;
(c) the consummation of a sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets, other than a sale or disposition if the holders of the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto hold securities immediately thereafter which represent more than 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the acquiror, or parent of the acquiror, of such assets;
(d) the shareholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or
(e) individuals who, as of the Effective Date, constitute the Board (the "") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; , , that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the Effective Date whose election to the Board was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a person other than the Board.
Incumbent Board
provided
however
"" means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
Code
"" means the compensation committee of the Board, or any other committee of the Board designated by the compensation committee for specific purposes as provided in applicable resolutions.
Committee
"" means Rowan Companies plc, a public limited company incorporated under English law.
Company
"" means an individual who is a member of the Board.
Director
 
"" means May 5, 2009.
Effective Date
"" means any person who is on the payroll records of the Company or an Affiliate and actively providing services as an employee.
Employee
"" includes any period in which a Participant is an Employee.
Employment
"" means the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" or "" means, in the case of a Share on a particular day, the volume weighted average price of the Share for that day, as reported by Bloomberg, Inc. as of 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time on that day (or at the close of trading on the New York Stock Exchange, if earlier) or, if Bloomberg, Inc. does not report a volume weighted average price of the Share for that day, for the last preceding day on which such the volume weighted average price of the Share is so reported. If Bloomberg, Inc. or any successor of Bloomberg, Inc. ceases to report volume weighted average prices or if on any given day the Fair Market Value is not ascertainable under the method described above for any other reason, the Committee shall adopt another appropriate method of determining Fair Market Value.
Fair Market Value
FMV Per Share
"" shall mean any Award denominated in or determined by reference to Shares, other than Options or Share Appreciation Rights.
Full Value Awards
"" means any Option that satisfies the requirements of Code Section 422 and is granted pursuant to of the Plan.
Incentive Option
Article III
"" has the meaning set forth in paragraph (e) of the definition of "Change in Control" under this .
Incumbent Board
Section 1.2
"" means an Option not intended to satisfy the requirements of Code Section 422 that is granted pursuant to of the Plan.
Non-Qualified Option
Article II
"" means an option to acquire Shares granted pursuant to the provisions of the Plan and includes either an Incentive Option or a Non-Qualified Option, or both, as applicable.
Option
"" means, with respect to an Option, the date determined by the Committee, which shall not be more than 10 years after the date of grant of such Option.
Option Expiration Date
"" means a Participant who has received an Option.
Optionee
"" means any Employee granted an Award under the Plan.
Participant
"" means an Award granted pursuant to of the Plan, that, if earned, shall be payable in Shares.
Performance Award
Article VIII
"" has the meaning set forth in of the Plan.
Plan
Section 1.1
"" means the 2005 Rowan Companies, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Prior Plan
 
"" means, with respect to an Award, the period established by the Committee during which such Award either remains subject to forfeiture or is not exercisable by the Participant.
Restricted Period
"" means one or more Shares, prior to the lapse of restrictions thereon, granted under of the Plan.
Restricted Shares
Article VI
"" means an Award, granted pursuant to of the Plan, of the right to receive Shares issued at the end of a Restricted Period.
Restricted Share Unit
Article VII
"" means the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
"" means a Class A ordinary share of the Company, nominal value $0.125 per share.
Share
"" means an Award granted pursuant to of the Plan.
Share Appreciation Rights
Article V
"" has the meaning set forth in of the Plan.
Spread
Section 5.1
1.3 Shares Subject to the Plan.
(a) . The maximum number of Shares that may be issued under the Plan shall be 4,500,000 Shares, all of which may be issued as Full Value Awards under the Plan. The maximum number of Shares that may be issued under the Plan pursuant to Incentive Options shall be 4,500,000 Shares.
Plan and Award Limitations
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Plan, the following limitations shall apply to Awards:
(i) no Participant may be granted, during any one-year period, Awards consisting of Options or Share Appreciation Rights that are exercisable for more than 1,500,000 Shares; and
(ii) no Participant may be granted, during any one-year period, Awards denominated in Shares covering or relating to more than 1,500,000 Shares (the limitation set forth in this clause (ii), together with the limitation set forth in clause (i) above, being hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Share-Based Awards Limitations").
(b) . In the event that at any time after the Effective Date the outstanding Shares are changed into or exchanged for a different number or kind of shares or other securities of the Company by reason of a merger, consolidation, recapitalization, reclassification, share split, share dividend, combination of shares or the like, the aggregate number and class of securities available, and each of the limitations on Awards set forth above, including the Share-Based Awards Limitations and other limitations set forth above, shall be ratably adjusted by the Committee. Upon the occurrence of any of the events described in the immediately preceding sentence, in order to ensure that after such event the shares subject to the Plan and each Participant's proportionate interest remain substantially as before the occurrence
Adjustment of Limitations
 
of such event, the Committee shall, in such manner as it may deem equitable, adjust (a) the number of Shares with respect to which Awards may be granted under the Plan, (b) the number of Shares subject to outstanding Awards, and (c) the grant or exercise price with respect to an Award. Such adjustment in an outstanding Option shall be made (i) without change in the total price applicable to the Option or any unexercised portion of the Option (except for any change in the aggregate price resulting from rounding-off of share quantities or prices) and (ii) with any necessary corresponding adjustment in exercise price per share. The Committee's determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive with respect to the Company and all other interested persons.
(c) . In the event the number of Shares to be delivered upon the exercise or payment of any Award granted under the Plan or the Prior Plan is reduced for any reason, including the withholding of Shares for the payment of taxes or exercise price, or in the event any Award (or portion thereof) granted under the Plan or the Prior Plan can no longer under any circumstances be exercised or paid, the number of Shares no longer subject to such Award shall thereupon be released from such Award and shall thereafter be available under the Plan for the grant of additional Awards. Shares that cease to be subject to an Award because of the exercise of the Award or the vesting of a Restricted Share Award or similar Award shall no longer be subject to or available for any further grant under the Plan; provided, however, that Shares that are not issued in connection with the exercise or settlement of an Award shall thereafter be available under the Plan for the grant of additional Awards. Shares issued pursuant to the Plan (x) may be newly allotted and issued Shares, Shares that have been acquired by the trustees of an employee benefit trust established in connection with the Plan, or Shares acquired in the open market and (y) shall be fully paid and nonassessable. No fractional Shares shall be issued under the Plan. In the event that any fractional Shares that would otherwise be issuable hereunder, the number of Shares issuable shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number.
Share Counting and Forfeitures
1.4 Administration of the Plan.
The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which shall have the powers vested in it by the terms of the Plan, such powers to include the authority (within any limitations described in the Plan) to:
(a) select the Employees to be granted Awards under the Plan;
(b) establish such restrictions, terms and conditions as it determines in its sole discretion with respect to each Award;
(c) establish objectives and conditions for earning Awards;
(d) determine the terms and conditions of Award agreements (which shall not be inconsistent with this Plan) and who must sign each Award agreement;
(e) determine whether the conditions for earning an Award have been met and whether a Performance Award will be paid at the end of an applicable performance period;
 
(f) except as otherwise provided in Section 1.7, modify the terms of Awards made under this Plan;
(g) determine if, when and under what conditions payment of all or any part of an Award may be deferred;
(h) determine whether the amount or payment of an Award should be reduced or eliminated;
(i) determine the guidelines and/or procedures for the payment or exercise of Awards;
(j) determine whether a Performance Award should qualify, regardless of its amount, as deductible in its entirety for U.S. federal income tax purposes, including whether a Performance Award should qualify as performance-based compensation;
(k) recoup from Participants all or a portion of the amounts granted or paid under the Plan if the Company's reported financial or operating results are materially and negatively restated within five years of the grant or payment of such amounts;
(l) recoup from Participants who engaged in conduct which was fraudulent, negligent or not in good faith, and which disrupted, damaged, impaired or interfered with the business, reputation or Employees of the Company or its Affiliates or which caused a subsequent adjustment or restatement of the Company's reported financial statements, all or a portion of the amounts granted or paid under the Plan within five years of such conduct;
(m) make, amend and rescind such rules as it deems necessary or advisable for the proper administration of the Plan, including adopting sub-plans to the Plan or special terms for Awards granted to Participants in countries outside the United Kingdom and the United States;
(n) interpret the Plan and all Awards under the Plan;
(o) make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan;
(p) correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Award in the manner and to the extent that the Committee deems desirable to effectuate the Plan; and
(q) enter into arrangements with the trustee of any employee benefit trust established by the Company or any of its Affiliates to facilitate the administration of Awards under the Plan.
Any action taken or determination made by the Committee pursuant to this or any other provision of the Plan shall be final, binding and conclusive on all affected persons, including, without limitation, the Company, any Affiliate, any grantee, holder or beneficiary of an Award, any shareholder and any Employee. The Committee may delegate any of its authority to any one or more members of the Board or to any other committee of the Board, provided such delegation is made in writing and specifically sets forth such delegated authority.
 
No member of the Board or the Committee shall be liable for any action or determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Award granted hereunder, and the members of the Board and the Committee shall be entitled to indemnification and reimbursement by the Company and its Affiliates in respect of any claim, loss, damage or expense (including legal fees) arising therefrom to the fullest extent permitted by law and subject to the following provisions.
Nothing in this Section 1.4 shall exempt a director of a company (to any extent) from any liability that would otherwise attach to him in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the company.
Notwithstanding any provision in this Plan to the contrary, the Company does not make any indemnity in respect of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the purpose of this Section 1.4, "company" means a company formed and registered under the Act, references to a conviction, judgment or refusal of relief are to the final decision in the relevant proceedings which shall be determined in accordance with Section 234(5) of the Act and references to an "associated company" are to an associated company of the Company within the meaning of the Act.
 
. The Committee shall have the authority to grant, prior to the expiration date of the Plan, Awards to such Employees as may be selected by it, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan. In selecting the persons to receive Awards, including the type and size of the Award, the Committee may consider the contribution the recipient has made and/or may make to the growth of the Company or its Affiliates and any other factors that it may deem relevant.
1.5 Granting of Awards to Participants
Awards may also be granted under an Annex to the Plan. Non-Employee Directors are not eligible to be granted Awards under the main rules of the Plan and shall only be eligible to participate in Awards granted under an Annex to the Plan. All Awards made under the Plan may be settled in Shares only. Any Award that may be settled in cash, or in cash or Shares, shall be granted only under an Annex to the Plan.
. If not sooner terminated under the provisions of , the Plan shall terminate upon, and no further Awards shall be made after, the 10th anniversary of the Effective Date.
1.6 Term of Plan
Section 1.7
. The Board may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan at any time without prior notice to or consent of any person; , , that subject to , no amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan may, without the written consent of the holder of an Award, terminate such Award or adversely affect such person's rights with respect to such Award in any material respect; and that no amendment shall be effective prior to its approval by the shareholders of the Company to the extent such approval is required by applicable legal requirements or the requirements of any securities market or exchange on which the Shares are then listed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board may amend the Plan in such manner as it deems necessary in order to permit Awards to meet the requirements of the Code or other applicable laws, or to prevent adverse tax consequences to the Participants.
1.7 Amendment and Discontinuance of the Plan
provided
however
Section 10.10
provided
further
. The Committee may grant Non-Qualified Options to purchase Shares to any Employee. Each Non-Qualified Option granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by a written agreement between the Company and the individual to whom such Non-Qualified Option is granted in such form as the Committee shall provide.
2.1 Eligibility
. The exercise price to be paid for each Share deliverable upon exercise of each Non-Qualified Option granted under this shall not be less than 100% of the FMV Per Share on the date of grant of such Non-Qualified Option.
2.2 Exercise Price
Article II
. Non-Qualified Options shall be in such form as the Committee may from time to time approve, shall be subject to the
2.3 Terms and Conditions of Non-Qualified Options
 
following terms and conditions and may contain such additional terms and conditions (including, but not limited to conditions of vesting or exercise of the Options), not inconsistent with the Plan, as the Committee shall deem desirable:
(a) . No Non-Qualified Option shall be exercisable later than the Option Expiration Date. To the extent not prohibited by other provisions of the Plan, each Non-Qualified Option shall be exercisable at such time or times as the Committee, in its discretion, may determine at the time such Non-Qualified Option is granted
Option Period and Conditions and Limitations on Exercise
(b) . In order to exercise a Non-Qualified Option, the person or persons entitled to exercise such Non-Qualified Option shall deliver to the Company or its designee payment in full for (i) the Shares being purchased and (ii) unless other arrangements have been made with the Committee, any required withholding taxes. The payment of the exercise price for each Non-Qualified Option shall be (x) in cash or by check payable and acceptable to the Company or its designee, or (y) with the consent of the Committee, which may be granted or withheld in the Committee's sole discretion, and upon compliance with such instructions as the Committee may specify, the Company or its designee may deliver certificates for the Shares for which the Non-Qualified Option is being exercised to a broker for sale on behalf of the person, provided that the person has irrevocably instructed such broker to remit directly to the Company or its designee on the person's behalf from the proceeds of such sale the full amount of the exercise price, plus all required withholding taxes.
Manner of Exercise
(c) . With the consent of the Committee, which may be granted or withheld in the Committee's sole discretion, and upon compliance with such instructions as the Committee may specify, payment of the exercise price or withholding may be made, in whole or in part, with Shares with respect to which the Option is being exercised. If payment is to be made in such manner, then the Participant shall deliver to the Company or its designee a notice of exercise as to the number of Shares to be issued to the Participant as well as the number of Shares to be retained by the Company in payment. In such case, the notice of exercise shall include (A) a statement directing the Company to retain the number of Shares from the exercise of the Options the Fair Market Value (as of the date of delivery of such notice) of which is equal to the portion of the exercise price and/or tax withholding with respect to which the Participant intends to make payment, and (B) such additional payment in cash as shall be necessary, when added to the consideration paid with Shares subject to the Option, to pay the exercise price and tax withholding in full for all such Shares. If the Company or an Affiliate is required to withhold on account of any applicable tax imposed as a result of the exercise of an Option by retention of optioned Shares under this Section, the Shares retained shall include an additional number of Shares whose Fair Market Value equals the amount thus required to be withheld at the applicable minimum statutory rate or other applicable withholding rate.
Alternative Payment for Stock
(d) . Except as provided below, no Non-Qualified Option granted hereunder shall be transferable other than (i) by will or by the laws of descent and distribution or (ii) pursuant to a domestic relations order, and during the lifetime of the Participant to whom any such Non-Qualified Option is granted, it shall be exercisable only by the Participant (or his guardian). The Committee may, in its discretion, provide in an Option agreement or otherwise that any Non-Qualified Option may be transferred in whole or in part.
Transfer of Non-Qualified Options
 
Any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of, or to subject to execution, attachment or similar process, any Non-Qualified Option granted hereunder, or any right thereunder, contrary to the provisions hereof, shall be void and ineffective, shall give no right to the purported transferee and shall, at the sole discretion of the Committee, result in forfeiture of the Non-Qualified Option with respect to the Shares involved in such attempt. Any Non-Qualified Option that is transferred in accordance with the provisions of this may only be exercised by the person or persons who acquire a proprietary interest in the Non-Qualified Options pursuant to the transfer.
Section 2.3(d)
(e) . Each Non-Qualified Option shall be subject to the requirement that if at any time the Committee determines, in its discretion, that the listing, registration or qualification of the Shares subject to such Non-Qualified Option under any securities exchange or under any applicable law, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body, is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the issuance or purchase of Shares thereunder, such Non-Qualified Option may not be exercised in whole or in part unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained and the same shall have been free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee.
Listing and Registration of Shares
. Except as provided in Section 1.3(b), the Committee, subject to shareholder approval, may grant to holders of outstanding Non-Qualified Options, in exchange for the surrender and cancellation of such Non-Qualified Options, cash or other Awards, new Non-Qualified Options having exercise prices lower (or higher with any required consent) than the exercise price provided in the Non-Qualified Options so surrendered and canceled and containing such other terms and conditions as the Committee may deem appropriate.
2.4 Option Repricing
The terms specified in this shall be applicable to all Incentive Options. Except as modified by the provisions of this , all of the provisions of shall be applicable to Incentive Options. Options which are specifically designated as Non-Qualified Options shall not be subject to the terms of this .
Article III
Article III
Article II
Article III
. Incentive Options may only be granted to Employees who are treated as "employees" of the Company or one of its subsidiaries under Code Section 422.
3.1 Eligibility
. The exercise price per Share shall not be less than 100% of the FMV Per Share on the date of grant of the Incentive Option.
3.2 Exercise Price
. No Incentive Option granted hereunder (a) shall be transferable other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and (b) except as permitted under Code Section 422, shall be exercisable during the Optionee's lifetime by any person other than the Optionee (or his guardian).
3.3 Limited Transfer of Incentive Options
. No Incentive Option shall be exercisable later than the Option Expiration Date. To the extent not prohibited by other provisions of the Plan, each Incentive Option shall be exercisable at such time or times as the Committee, in its discretion, may determine at the time such Incentive Option is granted.
3.4 Option Period and Conditions and Limitations on Exercise
 
. Except as provided in Section 1.3(b), the Committee, subject to shareholder approval, may grant to holders of outstanding Incentive Options, in exchange for the surrender and cancellation of such Incentive Options, cash or other Awards, new Incentive Options having exercise prices lower (or higher with any required consent) than the exercise price provided in the Incentive Options so surrendered and canceled and containing such other terms and conditions as the Committee may deem appropriate.
3.5 Option Repricing
The Committee may, from time to time and subject to the provisions of the Plan, grant Bonus Shares to Employees. Such grants of Bonus Shares shall be in consideration of performance of services by the Participant without additional consideration, except as may be required by the Committee or pursuant to . Bonus Shares shall be Shares that are not subject to a Restricted Period under .
Section 10.1
Article VI
The Committee is authorized to grant Share Appreciation Rights to Employees on the following terms and conditions:
. A Share Appreciation Right shall confer on the Participant to whom it is granted, upon exercise thereof, a right to receive Shares, the value of which is equal to the excess of (i) the FMV Per Share on the date of exercise over (ii) the FMV Per Share on the date of grant (such excess, the "Spread") with respect to a specified number of Shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may provide, in its sole discretion, that the Spread covered by a Share Appreciation Right may not exceed a specified amount.
5.1 Right to Payment
. The Committee shall determine at the date of grant the time or times at which and the circumstances under which a Share Appreciation Right may be exercised in whole or in part (including based on achievement of performance goals and/or future service requirements), the method of exercise, whether or not a Share Appreciation Right shall be in tandem or in combination with any other Award and any other terms and conditions of any Share Appreciation Right.
5.2 Terms
. Except as provided in Section 1.3(b), the Committee, subject to shareholder approval, may grant to holders of outstanding Share Appreciation Rights, in exchange for the surrender and cancellation of such Share Appreciation Rights, cash or other Awards, new Share Appreciation Rights having exercise prices lower (or higher with any required consent) than the exercise price provided in the Share Appreciation Rights so surrendered and canceled and containing such other terms and conditions as the Committee may deem appropriate.
5.3 Repricing
 
. All Employees shall be eligible for grants of Restricted Shares.
6.1 Eligibility
. Restricted Shares shall be subject to such restrictions (including, without limitation, limitations that qualify as a "substantial risk of forfeiture" within the meaning given to that term under Code Section 83) and restrictions on transfer by the Participant as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine. Prior to the lapse of such restrictions, the Participant shall not be permitted to transfer such Shares.
6.2 Restrictions; Restricted Shares Held in Escrow or Trust
Each certificate representing Restricted Shares awarded under the Plan shall be registered in the name of the Participant and, during the Restricted Period, shall be left on deposit with the Company, or in trust or escrow pursuant to an agreement satisfactory to the Committee, until such time as the restrictions on transfer have lapsed. The grantee of Restricted Shares shall have all the rights of a shareholder with respect to such Shares including the right to vote and the right to receive dividends or other distributions paid or made with respect to such Shares; provided, however, that the Committee may in the Award restrict the Participant's right to dividends until the restrictions on the Restricted Share lapse. Any certificates representing Restricted Shares shall bear a legend substantially similar to the following:
The Shares represented by this certificate have been issued pursuant to the terms of the 2009 Rowan Companies, Inc. Incentive Plan and may not be sold, pledged, transferred, assigned or otherwise encumbered in any manner except as is set forth in the terms of such award dated , 20.
            
    
. If, for any reason, the restrictions imposed by the Committee upon Restricted Shares are not satisfied at the end of the Restricted Period, any Restricted Shares remaining subject to such restrictions shall thereupon be forfeited by the Participant and transferred to an employee benefit trust established in connection with the Plan, and the Participant may be required to complete certain documents in order to effectuate the transfer.
6.3 Forfeiture of Restricted Shares
. Pursuant to of the Plan and subject to the withholding requirements of of the Plan, at the expiration of the Restricted Period, a certificate evidencing the Restricted Shares (to the nearest full share) with respect to which the Restricted Period has expired shall be delivered without charge to the Participant or his personal representative (including delivery by DWAC to the Participant's broker), free of all restrictions under the Plan.
6.4 Delivery of Shares
Section 10.5
Article XI
 
The Committee is authorized to grant Restricted Share Units to Employees, which are rights to receive a specified number of Shares at the end of a specified Restricted Period, subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine.
. Satisfaction of a Restricted Share Unit shall occur upon expiration of the Restricted Period specified for such Restricted Share Units by the Committee. In addition, Restricted Share Units shall be subject to such restrictions (which may include a risk of forfeiture), if any, as the Committee may impose in its sole discretion, which restrictions may lapse at the expiration of the Restricted Period or at earlier specified times (including times based on achievement of performance goals and/or future service requirements), separately or in combination, as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion to be appropriate or advisable for any Award.
7.1 Award and Restrictions
. Except as otherwise determined by the Committee or as may be set forth in any Award or other agreement pertaining to a Restricted Share Unit, upon termination of Employment or services during the applicable Restricted Period or portion thereof to which forfeiture conditions apply, all Restricted Share Units that are at that time subject to forfeiture shall be forfeited; provided, however, that the Committee may provide, by rule or regulation or in any Award agreement, or may determine in any individual case, that restrictions or forfeiture conditions relating to Restricted Share Units shall be waived in whole or in part in the event of terminations resulting from specified causes, and the Committee may in other cases which it determines appropriate or advisable waive in whole or in part the forfeiture of Restricted Share Units.
7.2 Forfeiture
. To the extent the Committee determines that any Award granted pursuant to this shall constitute performance-based compensation for purposes of Code Section 162(m), the grant or settlement of the Award shall, in the Committee's discretion, be subject to the achievement of performance goals determined and applied in a manner consistent with .
7.3 Performance Goals
Article VII
Section 8.2
. The Committee may grant Performance Awards to Employees based on performance criteria measured over a period specified by the Committee. The Committee may use such business criteria and other measures of performance as it may deem appropriate in establishing any performance conditions, and may exercise its discretion to increase the amounts payable under any Award subject to performance conditions, except as limited under in the case of a Performance Award which is intended to meet the requirements of Code Section 162(m).
8.1 Performance Awards
Section 8.2
 
Performance Goals. The grant and/or settlement of a Performance Award shall be contingent upon terms set forth in this .
8.2
Section 8.2
(a) The performance goals for Performance Awards shall consist of one or more business criteria and a targeted level or levels of performance with respect to each of such criteria, as specified by the Committee. In the case of any Award granted to an Employee which is intended to meet the requirements of the performance-based exception of Code Section 162(m), performance goals shall be designed to be objective and shall otherwise meet the requirements of Code Section 162(m), including the requirement that the level or levels of performance targeted by the Committee are such that the achievement of performance goals is "substantially uncertain" at the time of grant. The Committee may determine that such Performance Awards shall be settled upon achievement of any one performance goal or that two or more of the performance goals must be achieved as a condition to the settlement of such Performance Awards. Performance goals may differ among Performance Awards granted to any one Participant or for Performance Awards granted to different Participants.
General.
(b) . With respect to any Performance Award granted to an Employee which is intended to meet the requirements of the performance-based exception of Code Section 162(m), one or more of the following business criteria for the Company, on a consolidated basis, and/or for specified subsidiaries, divisions, businesses, geographical units or of the Company, or individual Employees (except with respect to the total shareholder return and earnings per share criteria), shall be used by the Committee in establishing performance goals for Performance Awards granted to a Participant: (i) earnings per share; (ii) price per share; (iii) revenues; (iv) cash flow; (v) return on net assets; (vi) return on assets; (vii) return on investment; (viii) return on equity; (ix) return on capital employed; (x) economic value added; (xi) gross margin; (xii) net income; (xiii) pretax earnings; (xiv) pretax earnings before interest, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA"); (xv) pretax operating earnings after interest expense and before incentives, service fees, and extraordinary or special items; (xvi) operating income; (xvii) total shareholder return; (xviii) debt reduction; (xix) budget compliance; (xx) safety and environmental performance; (xxi) utilization of, and day rates achieved for, offshore and onshore drilling rigs; (xxii) downtime for offshore and onshore rigs under contract; (xxiii) procurement efficiency; (xxiv) capital expenditures, including adherence to budget and schedule; (xxv) market share; and (xxvi) customer satisfaction. Any of the above goals may be determined on an absolute or relative basis or as compared to the performance of a published or special index or internal benchmark deemed applicable by the Committee including, but not limited to, the Standard & Poor's 500 Stock Index or components thereof or a group of comparable companies.
Business Criteria
(c) . With respect to any Performance Award granted to an Employee which is intended to meet the requirements of the performance-based exception of Code Section 162(m), performance goals in the case of any Award granted to a Participant shall be established by the Committee prior to the earlier to occur of (i) 90 days after the beginning of any performance period applicable to such Performance Award, or (ii) the lapse of 25% of the period of service (as scheduled in good faith at the time the goal is established), and in any event while the outcome is uncertain.
Timing for Establishing Performance Goals
(d) . After the end of each performance period, the Committee shall determine the amount, if any, of Performance Awards
Settlement of Performance Awards; Other Terms
 
payable to each Participant based upon achievement of business criteria over a performance period. The Committee may not exercise discretion to increase any such amount payable in respect of a Performance Award that is intended to comply with Code Section 162(m). The Committee shall specify the circumstances in which such Performance Awards shall be paid or forfeited in the event of termination of Employment of the Participant prior to the end of a performance period or settlement of Performance Awards, subject to Code Section 162(m) if applicable.
(e) . All determinations by the Committee as to the establishment of performance goals, the amount of any Performance Award and the achievement of performance goals relating to Performance Awards shall be made in a written agreement or other document covering the Performance Award. The Committee may not delegate any responsibility relating to such Performance Awards.
Written Determinations
(f) . It is the intent of the Company that certain of the Performance Awards shall constitute "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Code Section 162(m). Accordingly, the terms of this shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with Code Section 162(m).
Status of Performance Awards under Code Section 162(m)
Section 8.2
. Awards shall be evidenced by a written agreement or other document and may be granted on the terms and conditions set forth herein. In addition, the Committee may impose on any Award or the exercise thereof, such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall determine, including terms requiring forfeiture of Awards in the event of termination of Employment by the Participant and terms permitting a Participant to make elections relating to his Award which are not inconsistent with the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, except in the case of terminations of Employment due to death, disability, retirement or Change in Control, (i) any Full Value Award under the Plan to an Employee shall not become 100% vested until such Employee has been employed for at least three years from the date of grant, and (ii) any Full Value Award which is a Performance Award granted to an Employee shall not become 100% vested until the Employee has been employed for at least one year from the date of grant. The preceding sentence shall be construed to permit any such Award to vest ratably over such three-year period and to be up to 25% vested immediately upon date of grant. The foregoing vesting requirement shall not apply to Awards made to Employees (in the aggregate) not exceeding 5% of the total Shares available for Awards as of the Effective Date. The terms, conditions and/or restrictions contained in an Award may differ from the terms, conditions and restrictions contained in any other Award. The Committee may amend an Award; that, subject to , no amendment of an Award may, without the consent of the holder of the Award, adversely affect such person's rights with respect to such Award in any
10.1 Vesting and Other General Provisions
provided,
however,
Section 10.10
 
material respect. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may amend any Award without the consent of the holder if the Committee deems it necessary to avoid adverse tax consequences to the holder under Code Section 409A. The Committee shall retain full power and discretion to accelerate or waive, at any time, any term or condition of an Award that is not mandatory under the Plan; , , that, subject to , the Committee shall not have discretion to accelerate or waive any term or condition of an Award if such discretion would cause the Award to have adverse tax consequences to the Participant under 409A. Except in cases in which the Committee is authorized to require other forms of consideration under the Plan, or to the extent other forms of consideration must be paid to satisfy the requirements of the Act, no consideration other than services may be required for the grant of any Award.
provided
however
Section 10.10
. Subject to the Plan limitations on repricing of Options and Share Appreciation Rights, Awards granted under the Plan may, in the discretion of the Committee, be granted either alone or in addition to, in tandem with, or in substitution or exchange for, any other Award or any award granted under another plan of the Company, any Affiliate or any business entity to be acquired by the Company or an Affiliate, or any other right of a Participant to receive payment from the Company or any Affiliate. Such additional, tandem and substitute or exchange Awards may be granted at any time. If an Award is granted in substitution or exchange for another Award, the Committee shall require the surrender of such other Award for cancellation in consideration for the grant of the new Award. In addition, Awards may be granted in lieu of cash compensation, including in lieu of cash amounts payable under other plans of the Company or any Affiliate. Any such action contemplated under this shall be effective only to the extent that such action will not cause (a) the holder of the Award to lose the protection of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act and rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, (b) any Award that is designed to qualify payments thereunder as performance-based compensation as defined in Code Section 162(m) to fail to qualify as such performance-based compensation or (c) any Award to violate the Act.
10.2 Stand-Alone, Additional, Tandem and Substitute Awards
Section 10.2
. The term or Restricted Period of each Award that is an Option, Share Appreciation Right, Restricted Share Unit or Restricted Share shall be for such period as may be determined by the Committee; , , that in no event shall the term of any such Award exceed a period of 10 years (or such shorter terms as may be required in respect of an Incentive Stock Option under Code Section 422).
10.3 Term of Awards
provided
however
. Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award agreement, payments to be made by the Company or an Affiliate upon the exercise of an Option or other Award or settlement of an Award may be made in a single payment or transfer, in installments or on a deferred basis. The settlement of any Award may, subject to any limitations set forth in the Award agreement, be accelerated in connection with such settlement, in the discretion of the Committee or upon occurrence of one or more specified events; provided, however, that the Committee shall not accelerate settlement if such discretion would result in adverse tax consequences to the Participant under Code Section 409A. Installment or deferred payments may be required by the Committee (subject to of the Plan, including the consent provisions thereof in the case of any deferral of an outstanding Award not provided for in the original Award agreement); provided, however, that no deferral shall be required or permitted by the Committee if such deferral would result in adverse tax consequences to the Participant under Code Section 409A. Payments may include,
10.4 Form and Timing of Payment under Awards; Deferrals
Section 1.7
 
without limitation, provisions for the payment or crediting of reasonable interest on installment or deferred payments or the grant or crediting of amounts in respect of installment or deferred payments denominated in Shares. Any deferral shall only be allowed as is provided in a separate deferred compensation plan adopted by the Company. The Plan shall not constitute an "employee benefit plan" for purposes of Section 3(3) of the U.S. Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
. After the satisfaction of all of the terms and conditions set by the Committee with respect to an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to the Plan, the following shall be delivered to such Participant: (a) with respect to an Award of Restricted Shares, a certificate, without the legend set forth in , for the number of Shares that are no longer subject to such restrictions, terms and conditions; (b) with respect to an Award of Restricted Share Units, a certificate for the number of Shares equal to the number of Shares earned; and (c) with respect to an Award of Share Appreciation Rights or Performance Awards, a certificate for the number of Shares equal in value to the number of Share Appreciation Rights or amount of Performance Awards vested. The number of Shares which shall be issuable upon exercise of a Share Appreciation Right or earning of a Performance Award shall be determined by dividing (1) by (2) where (1) is the number of Shares as to which the Share Appreciation Right is exercised multiplied by the Spread or the amount of Performance Award that is earned and payable, as applicable, and (2) is the FMV Per Share on the date of exercise of the Share Appreciation Right or the date the Performance Award is earned and payable, as applicable. Upon termination, resignation or removal of a Participant under circumstances that do not cause such Participant to become fully vested, any remaining unvested Options, Restricted Shares, Restricted Share Units, Share Appreciation Rights or Performance Awards, as the case may be, shall either be forfeited to the Company or transferred to an employee benefit trust established in connection with the Plan, as applicable, or, if appropriate under the terms of the Award, shall continue to be subject to the restrictions, terms and conditions set by the Committee with respect to such Award.
10.5 Vested and Unvested Awards
Section 6.2
. No Shares will be issued or transferred pursuant to an Award unless and until all then-applicable requirements imposed by applicable securities and other laws, rules and regulations and by any regulatory agencies having jurisdiction and by any securities market or exchange upon which the Shares may be listed, have been fully met. As a condition precedent to the issuance of Shares pursuant to the grant or exercise of an Award, the Company may require the grantee to take any reasonable action to meet such requirements. The Company shall not be obligated to take any affirmative action in order to cause the issuance or transfer of Shares pursuant to an Award to comply with any law or regulation described in the second preceding sentence.
10.6 Securities Requirements
10.7 Transferability.
(a) . Except as may be otherwise provided by the Committee in an Award agreement or otherwise, no Award and no right under the Plan, contingent or otherwise, other than Bonus Shares or Restricted Shares as to which restrictions have lapsed, will be (i) assignable, saleable or otherwise transferable by a Participant except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a domestic relations order or (ii) subject to any encumbrance, pledge or charge of any nature. No transfer by will or by the laws
Transfer of Awards and Options
 
of descent and distribution shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Committee shall have been furnished with a copy of the deceased Participant's will or such other evidence as the Committee may deem necessary to establish the validity of the transfer. Any attempted transfer in violation of this shall be void and ineffective for all purposes.
Section 10.7(a)
(b) . Except as otherwise specifically provided under the Plan, only the Participant or his guardian (if the Participant becomes disabled), or in the event of his death, his legal representative or beneficiary, may exercise Options, receive deliveries of Shares or otherwise exercise rights under the Plan. The legal representative of the Participant's estate, or the person or persons to whom the Participant's rights under any Award will pass by will or the laws of descent and distribution, shall be deemed to be the Participant's beneficiary or beneficiaries of the rights of the Participant hereunder and shall be entitled to exercise such rights as are provided hereunder.
Ability to Exercise Rights
10.8 Rights as a Shareholder.
(a) . Except as otherwise provided in , a Participant who has received a grant of an Award or a transferee of such Participant shall have no rights as a shareholder with respect to any Shares until such person becomes the holder of record. Except as otherwise provided in , no adjustment shall be made for dividends (ordinary or extraordinary, whether in cash, securities or other property) or distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date such Share certificate is issued.
No Shareholder Rights
Section 10.8(b)
Section 10.8(b)
(b) . Unless otherwise approved by the Committee prior to the grant of a Restricted Share Award, a Participant who has received a grant of Restricted Shares or a permitted transferee of such Participant shall not have any rights of a shareholder until such time as a Share certificate has been issued with respect to all, or a portion of, such Restricted Share Award.
Holder of Restricted Shares
. The Company, in its discretion, may postpone the issuance and/or delivery of Shares upon any exercise of an Award until completion of such securities exchange listing, registration or other qualification of such Shares under any applicable law, rule or regulation as the Company may consider appropriate, and may require any Participant to make such representations and furnish such information as it may consider appropriate in connection with the issuance or delivery of the Shares in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations.
10.9 Listing and Registration of Shares
10.10 Change in Control.
(a) . Unless otherwise provided in the Award, in the event of a Change in Control described in the definition of Change in Control under of the Plan:
Change in Control
Section 1.2
(i) the Committee may accelerate vesting and the time at which all Options and Share Appreciation Rights then outstanding may be exercised so that those types of Awards may be exercised in full for a limited period of time on or before a specified date fixed by the Committee, after which specified date all
 
unexercised Options and Share Appreciation Rights and all rights of Participants thereunder shall terminate, or the Committee may accelerate vesting and the time at which Options and Share Appreciation Rights may be exercised so that those types of Awards may be exercised in full for their then remaining term;
(ii) the Committee may waive all restrictions and conditions of all Restricted Shares and Restricted Share Units then outstanding with the result that those types of Awards shall be deemed satisfied, and the Restriction Period or other limitations on payment in full with respect thereto shall be deemed to have expired, as of the date of the Change in Control; and
(iii) the Committee may determine to amend Performance Awards or Cash Awards, or substitute new Performance Awards and or Cash Awards in consideration of cancellation of outstanding Performance Awards and any or Cash Awards, in order to ensure that such Awards shall become fully vested, deemed earned in full and promptly paid to the Participants as of the date of the Change in Control, without regard to payment schedules and notwithstanding that the applicable performance cycle, retention cycle or other restrictions and conditions shall not have been completed or satisfied.
Notwithstanding the above provisions of this , the Committee shall not be required to take any action described in the preceding provisions of this , and any decision made by the Committee, in its sole discretion, not to take some or all of the actions described in the preceding provisions of this shall be final, binding and conclusive with respect to the Company, all Participants and all other interested persons.
Section 10.10(a)
Section 10.10(a)
Section 10.10(a)
(b) . If approved by the Board prior to or within 30 days after such time as a Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred, the Board shall have the right for a 45-day period immediately following the date that the Change in Control is deemed to have occurred to require all, but not less than all, Participants to transfer and deliver to the Company all Awards previously granted to the Participants in exchange for an amount equal to the "cash value" (defined below) of the Awards. Such right shall be exercised by written notice to all Participants. For purposes of this , the "cash value" of an Award shall equal the sum of (i) all cash to which the Participant would be entitled upon settlement or exercise of any Award which is not an Option and (ii) in the case of any Award that is an Option, the excess of the FMV Per Share over the Option price, if any, multiplied by the number of Shares subject to such Award, as if such settlement or exercise occurred immediately prior to the Change in Control. The amount payable to each Participant by the Company pursuant to this shall be paid in cash or by certified check and shall be reduced by any taxes required to be withheld. No acceleration of payment under this shall be made in the event it would result in adverse tax consequences to the Participant under Code Section 409A.
Right of Cash-Out
Section 10.10(b)
Section 10.10(b)
Section 10.10(b)
 
Any issuance of Shares pursuant to the exercise of an Option or in payment of any other Award under the Plan shall not be made until appropriate arrangements, satisfactory to the Company, have been made for the payment of any tax amounts (including U.K. tax, U.S. federal, state, local and other tax, foreign tax, as well as any social insurance contributions, national insurance contributions, payment on account, fringe benefit tax and any other tax-related items related to participation in the Plan and legally applicable to Participant, including any amount deemed by the Company or the Participant's employer, in its discretion, to be an appropriate charge to Participant even if legally applicable to the Company or the Participant's employer) that may be required to be withheld or paid by the Company or an Affiliate with respect thereto.
Such arrangements may, at the discretion of the Committee, include allowing the person to request the Company to withhold Shares being acquired pursuant to the Award, whether through the exercise of an Option or as a distribution pursuant to the Award, which have an aggregate FMV Per Share as of the date of such withholding that is not greater than the sum of all tax amounts to be withheld with respect thereto at the minimum statutory rate or other applicable withholding rate, together with payment of any remaining portion of such tax amounts in cash or by check payable and acceptable to the Company. The Committee may designate alternative methods for withholding of tax amounts with respect to the Award in the notice or agreement evidencing the Award.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if on the date of an event giving rise to a tax withholding obligation on the part of the Company or an Affiliate the person is an officer or individual subject to Rule 16b-3, such person may direct that such tax withholding be effectuated by the Company withholding the necessary number of Shares (at the minimum statutory rate or other applicable withholding rate) from such Award payment or exercise.
. No Participant or other person shall have any claim to be granted any Award; there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Participants, or holders or beneficiaries of Awards; and the terms and conditions of Awards need not be the same with respect to each recipient.
12.1 No Rights to Awards or Uniformity Among Awards
. In the event of any inconsistency or conflict between the terms of the Plan and an Award, the terms of the Plan shall govern.
12.2 Conflicts with Plan
. The grant of an Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to be retained in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate. Further, the Company or any Affiliate may at any time dismiss a Participant from employment, free from any liability or any claim under the Plan, unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or in any Award.
12.3 No Right to Employment
 
. For Awards granted prior to May 4, 2012, the validity, construction and effect of the Plan and any rules and regulations relating to the Plan shall be determined in accordance with applicable U.S. federal law and the laws of the State of Texas with venue in Harris County, without regard to any conflict of laws principles. For Awards granted on or after May 4, 2012, the validity, construction and effect of the Plan and any rules and regulations relating to the Plan shall be determined in accordance with the laws of England and Wales, without regard to any conflict of laws principles.
12.4 Governing Law
. Whenever the context requires such, words of the masculine gender used herein shall include the feminine and neuter, and words used in the singular shall include the plural. Section headings as used herein are inserted solely for convenience and reference and constitute no part of the Plan.
12.5 Gender, Tense and Headings
. If any provision of the Plan or any Award is or becomes or is deemed to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction or as to any Participant or Award, or would disqualify the Plan or any Award under any law deemed applicable by the Committee, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended as necessary to conform to the applicable laws, or if it cannot be construed or deemed amended without, in the determination of the Committee, materially altering the intent of the Plan or the Award, such provision shall be stricken as to such jurisdiction, Participant or Award, and the remainder of the Plan and any such Award shall remain in full force and effect.
12.6 Severability
. The Committee may refuse to issue or transfer any Shares or other consideration under an Award if, acting in its sole discretion, it determines that the issuance or transfer of such Shares or such other consideration might violate any applicable law.
12.7 Other Laws
. The Committee may condition the grant, exercise or payment of any Award upon such person entering into a shareholders' agreement in such form as approved from time to time by the Board.
12.8 Shareholder Agreements
. Except as provided under of the Plan, no provision of the Plan shall require the Company, for the purpose of satisfying any obligations under the Plan, to purchase assets or place any assets in a trust or other entity to which contributions are made or otherwise to segregate any assets, nor shall the Company be required to maintain separate bank accounts, books, records or other evidence of the existence of a segregated or separately maintained or administered fund for such purposes. Participants shall have no rights under the Plan other than as unsecured general creditors of the Company, except that insofar as they may have become entitled to payment of additional compensation by performance of services, they shall have the same rights as other Employees under general law.
12.9 Funding
Article VI
. None of the Board, the Company or the Committee makes any commitment or guarantee that any particular tax treatment will apply or be available to any person participating or eligible to participate hereunder.
12.10 No Guarantee of Tax Consequences
. All Awards under this Plan are intended either to be exempt from, or to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A, and this Plan and all Awards shall be interpreted and operated in a manner consistent with that intention.
12.11 Code Section 409A
 
This Annex 1 to the 2009 Rowan Companies, Inc. Incentive Plan (the "Plan") governs Awards granted to Non-Employee Directors of the Company under the Plan. Awards granted pursuant to this Annex 1 are subject to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan and Annex 2, except as modified by the following provisions, which shall replace and/or supplement certain provisions of the Plan as indicated.
The following paragraph shall replace Section 1.1 of the Plan with respect to Awards granted to Non-Employee Directors:
1.1 Purpose.
This Annex 1 to the Plan is intended to promote the interests of the Company and its shareholders by promoting performance and encouraging Non-Employee Directors (as defined below) to acquire or increase their equity interests in the Company, thereby giving them an added incentive to work toward the continued growth and success of the Company. The Board also contemplates that through the Plan the Company will be better able to compete for the services of the individuals needed for the continued growth and success of the Company. The Plan provides for payment of various forms of incentive compensation, and accordingly, is not intended to be a plan that is subject to the U.S. Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and shall be administered accordingly. The Plan replaced the Prior Plan and no further awards have been made under the Prior Plan after the Effective Date hereof.
Definitions. As used in this Annex 1, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
1.2
"" means a Director who is not an Employee.
Non-Employee Director
"" means an Option not intended to satisfy the requirements of Code Section 422.
Non-Employee Director Option
"" means, for purposes of any Award granted under this Annex 1, any Non-Employee Director granted an Award under the Plan.
Participant
The following paragraph shall supplement Section 1.4 of the Plan
1.4
The Committee shall have the authority to select the Non-Employee Directors to be granted Awards under the Plan.
Any action taken or determination made by the Committee pursuant to Section 1.4 or any other provision of the Plan shall be final, binding and conclusive on all affected persons, including, without limitation, the Company, any Affiliate, any grantee and any Non-Employee Director.
The following sentences supplement Section 1.5 of the Plan:
1.5
No member of the Committee shall vote or act upon any matter relating solely to himself. Grants of Awards to members of the Committee must be ratified by the Board.
 
The following paragraph shall replace Section 2.1 of the Plan:
2.1 Eligibility.
The Committee may grant Non-Qualified Options to purchase Shares to any Non-Employee Director. Each Non-Qualified Option granted hereunder shall be evidenced by a written agreement between the Company and the individual to whom such Non-Qualified Option is granted in such form as the Committee shall provide.
The following paragraph shall replace Article IV of the Plan:
The Committee may, from time to time and subject to the provisions of the Plan, grant shares of Bonus Shares to Non-Employee Directors. Such grants of Bonus Shares shall be in consideration of performance of services by the Participant without additional consideration, except as may be required by the Committee or pursuant to Section 10.1. Bonus Shares shall be Shares that are not subject to a Restricted Period under Article VI.
The following paragraph shall replace the first paragraph of Article V of the Plan:
The Committee is authorized to grant Share Appreciation Rights to Non-Employee Directors on the following terms and conditions:
 
The following paragraph shall replace Section 6.1 of the Plan:
6.1 Eligibility.
All Non-Employee Directors shall be eligible for grants of Restricted Shares.
 
The following paragraph shall replace the first paragraph of Article VII of the Plan:
The Committee is authorized to grant Restricted Share Units to Non-Employee Directors, which are rights to receive a specified number of Shares or the Fair Market Value of such Shares in cash at the end of a specified Restricted Period, subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine.
The following paragraph shall replace Section 8.1 of the Plan:
8.1 Performance Awards.
The Committee is authorized to grant Performance Awards to Non-Employee Directors based on performance criteria measured over a period specified by the Committee.
The following paragraph shall replace Article IX of the Plan:
The Committee is hereby authorized to grant to Non-Employee Directors, Cash Awards, which shall consist of a right which (a) is not an Award described in any other Article of the Plan and (b) is denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, cash as deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of any such Cash Awards, which shall be contained in a written agreement or other document covering such Awards.
The following sentence shall supplement Section 10.1 of the Plan:
10.1 Vesting and Other General Provisions.
The vesting requirement set forth in this Section 10.1 shall not apply to Awards to Non-Employee Directors.
 
This Annex 2 to the 2009 Rowan Companies, Inc. Incentive Plan (the "Plan") governs Cash Awards granted hereunder and Awards granted under the Plan that are payable in cash, Shares or any combination thereof. Any Awards granted pursuant to this Annex 2 are subject to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan (and, with respect to Awards granted to Non-Employee Directors, in Annex 1) except as modified by the following provisions, which shall replace and/or supplement certain provisions of the Plan as indicated.
As used in this Annex 2, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
1.2 Definitions.
"" means, collectively, Options, Bonus Shares, Share Appreciation Rights, Restricted Share Units, Restricted Shares, Performance Awards, or Cash Awards.
Awards
"" means an award denominated in cash and not based on Shares.
Cash Awards
"" means an Award granted pursuant to of the Plan, that, if earned, shall be payable in Shares, cash or any combination thereof as determined by the Committee.
Performance Award
Article VIII
"" means an Award, granted pursuant to of the Plan, of the right to receive (a) Shares issued at the end of a Restricted Period, (b) the Fair Market Value of Shares paid in cash at the end of a Restricted Period or (c) a combination of Shares and cash, as determined by the Committee, paid at the end of a Restricted Period.
Restricted Share Unit
Article VII
The following paragraph shall supplement Section 1.3 of the Plan:
1.3
No Participant may be granted Cash Awards in respect of any one-year period having a value determined on the date of grant in excess of $5,000,000.
The following sentence shall supplement Section 5.1 of the Plan:
5.2 Terms.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may provide, in its sole discretion, that the Spread covered by a Share Appreciation Right may be paid in cash.
 
The following paragraph shall replace the first paragraph of Article VII of the Plan:
The Committee is authorized to grant Restricted Share Units to Employees, which are rights to receive a specified number of Shares or the Fair Market Value of such Shares in cash at the end of a specified Restricted Period, subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine.
The following sentence shall supplement Section 8.2(d):
8.2 Settlement of Performance Awards; Other Terms.
Settlement of Performance Awards may be in cash or Shares as the Committee shall determine.
The following paragraph shall replace Article IX under the Plan:
The Committee is hereby authorized to grant to Employees Cash Awards, which shall consist of a right which (a) is not an Award described in any other Article of the Plan and (b) is denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, cash as deemed by the Committee to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan. Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of any such Cash Awards, which shall be contained in a written agreement or other document covering such Awards.
The following provision shall supplement Section 10.4 of the Plan:
10.4 Form and Timing of Payment under Awards; Deferrals.
The settlement of any Award may, subject to any limitations set forth in the Award agreement, be accelerated and cash paid in lieu of Shares in connection with such settlement, in the discretion of the Committee or upon occurrence of one or more specified events; provided, however, that the Committee shall not accelerate settlement if such discretion would result in adverse tax consequences to the Participant under Code Section 409A. In the discretion of the Committee, Awards granted pursuant to Article VIII of the Plan may be payable in cash or Shares to the extent permitted by the terms of the applicable Award agreement and the Plan.
 
The following provisions supplements Section 10.5 of the Plan:
10.5 Vested and Unvested Awards.
After the satisfaction of all of the terms and conditions set by the Committee with respect to an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Annex 2 of the Plan, the following shall be delivered to such Participant: cash and/or a certificate for the number of Shares equal in value to the number of Restricted Share Units, Share Appreciation Rights or Performance Awards, as applicable.
The following sentence supplements Section 10.7(b):
10.7 Transferability.
Except as otherwise specifically provided under the Plan, only the Participant or his guardian (if the Participant becomes disabled), or in the event of his death, his legal representative or beneficiary, may receive cash payments under the Plan.
The following provision supplements Section 10.10(a)(iii):
10.10 Change in Control.
The Committee may determine to amend Cash Awards, or substitute new Cash Awards in consideration of cancellation of outstanding Cash Awards, in order to ensure that such Awards shall become fully vested, deemed earned in full and promptly paid to the Participants as of the date of the Change in Control, without regard to payment schedules and notwithstanding that the applicable performance cycle, retention cycle or other restrictions and conditions shall not have been completed or satisfied.
 

Exhibit 10.5
 
 
"The shares represented by this certificate have been issued pursuant to the terms of the 2009 Rowan Companies, Inc. Incentive Plan and may not be sold, pledged, transferred, assigned or otherwise encumbered in any manner except as is set forth in the terms of such award dated [insert date]."
Until restrictions lapse, the Restricted Shares shall not be transferable except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. No right or benefit hereunder shall in any manner be liable for or subject to any debts, contracts, liabilities, or torts of the Participant. Any purported assignment, alienation, pledge, attachment, sale, transfer or other encumbrance of the Restricted Shares, prior to the lapse of restrictions, that does not satisfy the requirements hereunder shall be void and unenforceable against the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of the Participant's Disability or death, the Participant's rights under this Notice may be exercised by the Participant's guardian or the legal representative of his or her estate (or the person who acquires the rights under this Notice by bequest or inheritance or by the reason of the death of the Participant), as applicable.
 
 
 
Determination of the date of termination of Employment by reason of Retirement and the satisfaction of the requirements for Retirement shall be based on such evidence as the Committee may require and a determination by the Committee of such date of termination and satisfaction shall be final and controlling on all interested parties.
 
Determination of the date of termination of Employment by reason of Disability and the satisfaction of the requirements for Disability shall be based on such evidence as the Committee may require and a determination by the Committee of such date of termination and satisfaction shall be final and controlling on all interested parties.
 
Any question as to whether and when there has been a termination of such Employment shall be based on such evidence as the Committee may require and a determination by the Committee as to the date of such termination shall be final and controlling on all interested parties.
 
 
Prior to any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, the Participant agrees to make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or the Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items. In this regard, the Participant authorizes the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion to satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following:
(a) withholding from the Participant's wages or other cash payment (including the cash payment referred to in Section 7 above) made to the Participant by the Company and/or the Employer;
(b) withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired pursuant to the Restricted Shares either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on the Participant's behalf pursuant to this authorization without further consent); or
(c) selling or transferring to the employee benefit trust established in connection with the Company's adoption and assumption of the Plan a number of Shares that would otherwise be released from restrictions on the Vesting Date.
Depending on the withholding method, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding rates or other applicable withholding rates, including maximum applicable rates in which case the Participant will receive a refund of any over-withheld amount in cash and will have no entitlement to the equivalent in Shares.
The Participant agrees to pay to the Company or the Employer, any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of the Participant's participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company may refuse to issue or deliver the Shares or the proceeds of the sale of Shares, if the Participant fails to comply with the Participant's obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items.
 
For Participants subject to tax in the United Kingdom, if payment or withholding of the income tax due in connection with the Restricted Shares is not made within ninety (90) days of any event giving rise to the income tax liability or such other period specified in Section 222(1)(c) of the U.K. Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 (the "Due Date"), the amount of any uncollected income tax shall constitute a loan owed by the Participant to the Employer, effective on the Due Date. The loan will bear interest at the then-current official rate of Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs ("HMRC"), it will be immediately due and repayable, and the Company or the Employer may recover it at any time thereafter by any of the means referred to herein or otherwise permitted under the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant is a director or executive officer of the Company (within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the Exchange Act), the Participant shall not be eligible for a loan to cover the income tax due as described above. In the event the Participant is such a director or executive officer and the income tax due is not collected from or paid by the Participant by the Due Date, the amount of any uncollected income tax will constitute a benefit to the Participant on which additional income tax and national insurance contributions ("NICs") will be payable. The Company or the Employer may recover any such additional income tax and NICs at any time thereafter by any of the means referred to herein or otherwise permitted under the Plan. The Participant will also be responsible for reporting and paying any income tax due on this additional benefit directly to HMRC under the self-assessment regime.
 
 
 
The Shares which the Participant may acquire pursuant to this Notice will not be sold or otherwise disposed of in any manner that would constitute a violation of any applicable
 
securities laws, whether federal or state. The Participant is hereby notified (i) that the certificates or other representation of the Shares may bear such legend or legends as the Committee deems appropriate in order to assure compliance with applicable securities laws, (ii) that the Company may refuse to register the transfer of the Shares acquired pursuant to this Notice on the share transfer records of the Company if such proposed transfer would in the opinion of counsel satisfactory to the Company constitute a violation of any applicable securities law and (iii) that the Company may give related instructions to its transfer agent, if any, to stop registration of the transfer of such Shares.
 
 
(a) recoup from the Participant all or a portion of the Shares issued or cash paid under this Notice if the Company's reported financial or operating results are materially and negatively restated within five years of the grant or payment of such amounts; and
(b) recoup from the Participant if, in the Committee's judgment, the Participant engaged in conduct which was fraudulent, negligent or not in good faith, and which disrupted, damaged, impaired or interfered with the business, reputation or Employees of the Company or its Affiliates or which caused a subsequent adjustment or restatement of the Company's reported financial statements, all or a portion of the Shares issued or cash paid under this Notice within five years of such conduct.
In addition, the Restricted Shares are subject to the requirements of (i) Section 954 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (regarding recovery of erroneously awarded compensation) and any implementing rules and regulations thereunder, (ii) similar rules under the laws of any other jurisdiction and (iii) any policies adopted by the Company to implement such requirements, all to the extent determined by the Company in its discretion to be applicable to the Participant.
Any Shares subject to recoupment may be transferred to the employee benefit trust established in connection with the Company's adoption and assumption of the Plan, and the Participant agrees to execute any documents necessary to effectuate such transfer.
 
 
 
The Participant understands that the Company, the Employer and any Affiliates may hold certain personal information about the Participant, including, but not limited to, the Participant's name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all Restricted Shares or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Participant's favor, for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ("Data").
The Participant understands that Data will be transferred to such share plan service provider as may be selected by the Company, which is assisting the Company with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. The recipients of Data may be located in the United States or elsewhere, and the recipients' country (, the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than the Participant's country. The Participant may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of Data by contacting his or her human resources representative. The Participant authorizes the Company and any other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing his or her participation in the Plan. Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Participant's participation in the Plan. The Participant may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing his or her human resources representative. Further, the Participant is providing his or her consents herein on a purely voluntary basis. If the Participant does not consent, or if the Participant later seeks to revoke his or her consent, his or her Employment status or service and career with the Employer will not be adversely affected; the only adverse consequence of refusing or withdrawing the Participant's consent is that the Company would not be able to grant Restricted Shares or other equity awards to the Participant or administer or maintain such awards. Therefore, the Participant's refusal or withdrawal of his or her consent may affect the Participant's ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of the Participant's refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Participant may contact his or her human resources representative.
e.g.
 
 
(a) the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and it may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, to the extent permitted by the Plan;
(b) the grant of the Restricted Shares is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of Restricted Shares, or benefits in lieu of Restricted Shares, even if Restricted Shares have been granted in the past;
(c) all decisions with respect to future Restricted Shares or other grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company.
 
(d) the grant of Restricted Shares and the Participant's participation in the Plan shall not create a right to Employment or be interpreted as forming an Employment or service contract with the Company, the Employer or any Affiliate and shall not interfere with the ability of the Company, the Employer or any Affiliate, as applicable, to terminate the Participant's Employment relationship (if any);
(e) the Participant is voluntarily participating in the Plan;
(f) the Restricted Shares are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation;
(g) the Restricted Shares are not part of normal or expected compensation for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end-of-service payments, bonuses, long service awards, pension or retirement or welfare benefits or similar payments;
(h) the future value of the Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty;
(i) no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Restricted Shares resulting from the termination of Participant's Employment or other service relationship to the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where the Participant is employed or the terms of the Participant's employment agreement, if any), and in consideration of the Restricted Shares to which the Participant is otherwise not entitled, the Participant irrevocably agrees never to institute any claim against the Company, its Affiliates or the Employer, waives his or her ability, if any, to bring any such claim, and releases the Company, its Affiliates and the Employer from any such claim; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction, then, by participating in the Plan, the Participant shall be deemed irrevocably to have agreed not to pursue such claim and agrees to execute any and all documents necessary to request dismissal or withdrawal of such claim;
(j) unless otherwise provided in the Plan or by the Company in its discretion, the Restricted Shares and the benefits evidenced by this Notice do not create any entitlement to have the Restricted Shares or any such benefits transferred to, or assumed by, another company nor to be exchanged, cashed out or substituted for, in connection with any corporate transaction affecting the Shares; and
(k) the following provisions apply only if the Participant is employed outside the United States:
(i) the Restricted Shares are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose; and
(ii) neither the Company, the Employer nor any Affiliate shall be liable for any foreign exchange rate fluctuation between the Participant's local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of the Restricted Shares or of any amounts due to the Participant pursuant to the vesting of the Restricted Shares or the subsequent sale of any Shares.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By signing below, the Participant agrees to the terms and conditions of the grant of Restricted Shares as set forth in this Notice.
 
 

Exhibit 10.6
 
 
As soon as administratively practicable following the applicable Vesting Date, payment to the Participant of amounts due hereunder shall be made in Shares; provided, however, that in no event shall payment be made later than the 15th day of the third month following the end of the calendar year in which such Vesting Date occurs.
 
 
Determination of the date of termination of Employment by reason of Retirement and the satisfaction of the requirements for Retirement shall be based on such evidence as the Committee may require and a determination by the Committee of such date of termination and satisfaction shall be final and controlling on all interested parties.
 
 
Determination of the date of termination of Employment by reason of Disability and the satisfaction of the requirements for Disability shall be based on such evidence as the Committee may require and a determination by the Committee of such date of termination and satisfaction shall be final and controlling on all interested parties.
 
Any question as to whether and when there has been a termination of such Employment shall be based on such evidence as the Committee may require and a determination by the Committee as to the date of such termination shall be final and controlling on all interested parties.
 
 
Prior to any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, the Participant agrees to make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or the Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items. In this regard, the Participant authorizes the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion to satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following:
(a) withholding from the Participant's wages or other cash payment (including the cash payment referred to in Section 7 above) made to the Participant by the Company and/or the Employer;
 
(b) withholding from proceeds of the sale of Shares acquired upon payment of the RSUs either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on the Participant's behalf pursuant to this authorization without further consent);
(c) selling or transferring to the employee benefit trust established in connection with the Company's adoption and assumption of the Plan a number of Shares that would otherwise be issued upon payment of the RSUs; or
(d) withholding in Shares to be issued upon payment of the RSUs, provided, however, that if the Participant is a Section 16 officer of the Company under the Exchange Act, the Participant may elect the method of withholding from alternatives (a)-(d) herein in advance of any relevant withholding event, and in the absence of the Participant's timely election, the Company will withhold in Shares upon the relevant withholding event.
Depending on the withholding method, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding amounts or other applicable withholding rates, including maximum applicable rates in which case the Participant will receive a refund of any over-withheld amount in cash and will have no entitlement to the equivalent in Shares. If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding in Shares, for tax purposes, the Participant is deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the vested RSUs, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items.
The Participant agrees to pay to the Company or the Employer, any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of the Participant's participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company may refuse to issue or deliver the Shares or the proceeds of the sale of Shares, if the Participant fails to comply with the Participant's obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items.
 
 
 
 
 
(a) recoup from the Participant all or a portion of the Shares issued or cash paid under this Notice if the Company's reported financial or operating results are materially and negatively restated within five years of the grant or payment of such amounts; and
(b) recoup from the Participant if, in the Committee's judgment, the Participant engaged in conduct which was fraudulent, negligent or not in good faith, and which disrupted, damaged, impaired or interfered with the business, reputation or Employees of the Company or its Affiliates or which caused a subsequent adjustment or restatement of the Company's reported financial statements, all or a portion of the Shares issued or cash paid under this Notice within five years of such conduct.
In addition, the RSUs are subject to the requirements of (i) Section 954 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (regarding recovery of erroneously awarded compensation) and any implementing rules and regulations thereunder, (ii) similar rules under the laws of any other jurisdiction and (iii) any policies adopted by the Company to implement such requirements, all to the extent determined by the Company in its discretion to be applicable to the Participant.
Any Shares subject to recoupment may be transferred to the employee benefit trust established in connection with the Company's adoption and assumption of the Plan, and the Participant agrees to execute any documents necessary to effectuate such transfer.
 
 
The Participant understands that the Company, the Employer and any Affiliates may hold certain personal information about the Participant, including, but not limited to, the Participant's name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all RSUs or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Participant's favor, for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ("Data").
 
The Participant understands that Data will be transferred to such share plan service provider as may be selected by the Company, which is assisting the Company with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. The recipients of Data may be located in the United States or elsewhere, and the recipients' country (, the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than the Participant's country. The Participant may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of Data by contacting his or her human resources representative. The Participant authorizes the Company and any other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing his or her participation in the Plan. Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Participant's participation in the Plan. The Participant may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing his or her human resources representative. Further, the Participant is providing his or her consents herein on a purely voluntary basis. If the Participant does not consent, or if the Participant later seeks to revoke his or her consent, his or her Employment status or service and career with the Employer will not be adversely affected; the only adverse consequence of refusing or withdrawing the Participant's consent is that the Company would not be able to grant RSUs or other equity awards to the Participant or administer or maintain such awards. Therefore, the Participant's refusal or withdrawal of his or her consent may affect the Participant's ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of the Participant's refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Participant may contact his or her human resources representative.
e.g.
 
 
(a) the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and it may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, to the extent permitted by the Plan;
(b) the grant of the RSUs is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of RSUs, or benefits in lieu of RSUs, even if RSUs have been granted in the past;
(c) all decisions with respect to future RSUs or other grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company.
(d) the grant of RSUs and the Participant's participation in the Plan shall not create a right to Employment or be interpreted as forming an Employment or service contract with the Company, the Employer or any Affiliate and shall not interfere with the ability of the Company, the Employer or any Affiliate, as applicable, to terminate the Participant's Employment relationship (if any);
 
(e) the Participant is voluntarily participating in the Plan;
(f) the RSUs and the Shares subject to the RSUs are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation;
(g) the RSUs and the Shares subject to the RSUs are not part of normal or expected compensation for any purpose, including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end-of-service payments, bonuses, long service awards, pension or retirement or welfare benefits or similar payments;
(h) the future value of the underlying Shares is unknown, indeterminable and cannot be predicted with certainty;
(i) no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the RSUs resulting from the termination of Participant's Employment or other service relationship to the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where the Participant is employed or the terms of the Participant's employment agreement, if any), and in consideration of the RSUs to which the Participant is otherwise not entitled, the Participant irrevocably agrees never to institute any claim against the Company, its Affiliates or the Employer, waives his or her ability, if any, to bring any such claim, and releases the Company, its Affiliates and the Employer from any such claim; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction, then, by participating in the Plan, the Participant shall be deemed irrevocably to have agreed not to pursue such claim and agrees to execute any and all documents necessary to request dismissal or withdrawal of such claim;
(j) unless otherwise provided in the Plan or by the Company in its discretion, the RSUs and the benefits evidenced by this Notice do not create any entitlement to have the RSUs or any such benefits transferred to, or assumed by, another company nor to be exchanged, cashed out or substituted for, in connection with any corporate transaction affecting the Shares; and
(k) neither the Company, the Employer nor any Affiliate shall be liable for any foreign exchange rate fluctuation between the Participant's local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of the RSUs or of any amounts due to the Participant pursuant to the payment of the RSUs or the subsequent sale of any Shares acquired upon payment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By signing below, the Participant agrees to the terms and conditions of the grant of RSUs as set forth in this Notice.
 
 

Exhibit 10.7
 
 
 
 
 
Prior to any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, the Participant agrees to make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company to satisfy all Tax-Related Items. In this regard, the Participant authorizes the Company, or its agent, to satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following:
 
 
 
 
provided, however, that the Participant may elect the method of withholding from alternatives (a)-(d) herein in advance of any relevant withholding event, and in the absence of the Participant's timely election, the Company will withhold in Shares upon the relevant withholding event.
Depending on the withholding method, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding amounts or other applicable withholding rates, including maximum applicable rates in which case the Participant will receive a refund of any over-withheld amount in cash and will have no entitlement to the equivalent in Shares even if the RSUs are paid in Shares. If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding in Shares, for tax purposes, the Participant is deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the RSUs, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items.
The Participant agrees to pay to the Company any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company may be required to withhold or account for as a result of the Participant's participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company may refuse to issue or deliver the Shares or cash or the proceeds of the sale of the Shares if the Participant fails to comply with the Participant's obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items.
If payment or withholding of any U.K. income tax due in connection with the RSUs is not made within ninety (90) days of any event giving rise to the income tax liability or such other period specified in Section 222(1)(c) of the U.K. Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 (the "Due Date"), the amount of any uncollected income tax will constitute a benefit to the Participant on which additional income tax (and national insurance contributions ("NICs"), to the extent
 
applicable) will be payable. The Company may recover any such additional income tax and NICs at any time thereafter by any of the means referred to herein or otherwise permitted under the Plan. The Participant will also be responsible for reporting and paying any income tax due on this additional benefit directly to Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs under the self-assessment regime.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, the RSUs are subject to the requirements of (i) Section 954 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (regarding recovery of erroneously awarded compensation) and any implementing rules and regulations thereunder, (ii) similar rules under the laws of any other jurisdiction and (iii) any policies adopted by the Company to implement such requirements, all to the extent determined by the Company in its discretion to be applicable to the Participant.
Any Shares subject to recoupment may be transferred to an employee benefit trust established in connection with the Company's adoption and assumption of the Plan, and the Participant agrees to execute any documents necessary to effectuate such transfer.
 
 
The Participant understands that the Company may hold certain personal information about the Participant, including, but not limited to, the Participant's name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, title, any shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all RSUs or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Participant's favor, for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ("Data").
 
The Participant understands that Data will be transferred to such share plan service provider as may be selected by the Company, which is assisting the Company with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. The recipients of Data may be located in the United States, the United Kingdom, or elsewhere, and the recipients' country may have different data privacy laws and protections than the Participant's country. The Participant may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of Data by contacting the Company's [insert contact]. The Participant authorizes the Company and any other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing his or her participation in the Plan. Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Participant's participation in the Plan. The Participant may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing the Company's [insert contact]. Further, the Participant is providing his or her consents herein on a purely voluntary basis. The Participant's refusal or withdrawal of his or her consent may affect the Participant's ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of the Participant's refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Participant may contact the Company's [insert contact].
 
 
 
 
 
 
By signing below, the Participant agrees to the terms and conditions of the grant of RSUs as set forth in this Notice.
 
 

Exhibit 10.8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Determination of the date of termination of Employment by reason of Retirement and the satisfaction of the requirements for Retirement shall be based on such evidence as the Committee may require and a determination by the Committee of such date of termination and satisfaction shall be final and controlling on all interested parties.
 
Determination of the date of termination of Employment by reason of Disability and the satisfaction of the requirements for Disability shall be based on such evidence as the Committee may require and a determination by the Committee of such date of termination and satisfaction shall be final and controlling on all interested parties.
 
 
Any question as to whether and when there has been a termination of such Employment shall be based on such evidence as the Committee may require and a determination by the Committee as to the date of such termination shall be final and controlling on all interested parties.
 
Prior to any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, as applicable, the Participant agrees to make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or the Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items. In this regard, the Participant authorizes the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion to satisfy the obligations with regard to all Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following:
 
 
 
 
Depending on the withholding method, the Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding rates or other applicable withholding rates, including maximum applicable rates in which case the Participant will receive a refund of any over-withheld amount in cash and will have no entitlement to the equivalent in Shares. If the obligation for Tax-Related Items is satisfied by withholding in Shares, for tax purposes, the Participant is deemed to have been issued the full number of Shares subject to the exercised portion of the SAR, notwithstanding that a number of the Shares are held back solely for the purpose of paying the Tax-Related Items.
The Participant agrees to pay to the Company or the Employer, any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of the Participant's participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described. The Company may refuse to issue or deliver the Shares or the proceeds of the sale of Shares, if the Participant fails to comply with the Participant's obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items.
For Participants subject to tax in the United Kingdom, if payment or withholding of the income tax due in connection with the SAR is not made within ninety (90) days of any event giving rise to the income tax liability or such other period specified in Section 222(1)(c) of the U.K. Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 (the "Due Date"), the amount of any uncollected income tax shall constitute a loan owed by the Participant to the Employer, effective on the Due Date. The loan will bear interest at the then-current official rate of Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs ("HMRC"), it will be immediately due and repayable, and the Company or the Employer may recover it at any time thereafter by any of the means referred to herein or otherwise permitted under the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant is a director or executive officer of the Company (within the meaning of Section 13(k) of the Exchange Act), the Participant shall not be eligible for a loan to cover the income tax due as described above. In the event the Participant is such a director or executive officer and the income tax due is not collected from or paid by the Participant by the Due Date, the amount of any uncollected income tax will constitute a benefit to the Participant on which additional income tax and national insurance contributions ("NICs") will be payable. The Company or the Employer may recover any such additional income tax and NICs at any time thereafter by any of the means referred to herein or otherwise permitted under the Plan. The Participant will also be responsible for reporting and paying any income tax due on this additional benefit directly to HMRC under the self-assessment regime.
 
 
 
 
The Shares which the Participant may acquire by exercising this SAR will not be sold or otherwise disposed of in any manner that would constitute a violation of any applicable securities laws, whether federal or state. The Participant is hereby notified (i) that the certificates or other representation of the Shares purchased under this SAR may bear such legend or legends as the Committee deems appropriate in order to assure compliance with applicable securities laws, (ii) that the Company may refuse to register the transfer of the Shares purchased under this SAR on the share transfer records of the Company if such proposed transfer would in the opinion of counsel satisfactory to the Company constitute a violation of any applicable securities law and (iii) that the Company may give related instructions to its transfer agent, if any, to stop registration of the transfer of such Shares.
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, the SAR is subject to the requirements of (i) Section 954 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (regarding recovery of erroneously awarded compensation) and any implementing rules and regulations thereunder, (ii) similar rules under the laws of any other jurisdiction and (iii) any policies adopted by the Company to implement such requirements, all to the extent determined by the Company in its discretion to be applicable to the Participant.
Any Shares subject to recoupment may be transferred to the employee benefit trust established in connection with the Company's adoption and assumption of the Plan, and the Participant agrees to execute any documents necessary to effectuate such transfer.
 
 
 
The Participant understands that the Company, the Employer and any Affiliates may hold certain personal information about the Participant, including, but not limited to, the Participant's name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares or directorships held in the Company, details of any SAR or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Participant's favor, for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ("Data").
The Participant understands that Data will be transferred to such share plan service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which is assisting the Company with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. The recipients of Data may be located in the United States or elsewhere, and the recipients' country (e.g., the United States) may
 
have different data privacy laws and protections than the Participant's country. The Participant may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of Data by contacting his or her human resources representative. The Participant authorizes the Company and any other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing his or her participation in the Plan. Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Participant's participation in the Plan. The Participant may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing his or her human resources representative. Further, the Participant is providing his or her consents herein on a purely voluntary basis. If the Participant does not consent, or if the Participant later seeks to revoke his or her consent, his or her Employment status or service and career with the Employer will not be adversely affected; the only adverse consequence of refusing or withdrawing the Participant's consent is that the Company would not be able to grant the SAR or other equity awards to the Participant or administer or maintain such awards. Therefore, the Participant's refusal or withdrawal of his or her consent may affect the Participant's ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of the Participant's refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Participant may contact his or her human resources representative.
 
 
(a) the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and it may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, to the extent permitted by the Plan;
(b) the grant of the SAR is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of share appreciation rights, or benefits in lieu of share appreciation rights, even if share appreciation rights have been granted in the past;
(c) all decisions with respect to future share appreciation rights or other grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company.
(d) the grant of the SAR and the Participant's participation in the Plan shall not create a right to Employment or be interpreted as forming an Employment or service contract with the Company, the Employer or any Affiliate and shall not interfere with the ability of the Company, the Employer or any Affiliate, as applicable, to terminate the Participant's Employment relationship (if any);
(e) the Participant is voluntarily participating in the Plan;
(f) the SAR and the Shares subject to the SAR are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation;
 
(g) the SAR and the Shares subject to the SAR are not part of normal or expected compensation for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end-of-service payments, bonuses, long service awards, pension or retirement or welfare benefits or similar payments;
(h) the future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty;
(i) no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the SAR resulting from the termination of Participant's Employment or other service relationship with the Company or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where the Participant is employed or the terms of the Participant's employment agreement, if any), and in consideration of the grant of the SAR to which the Participant is otherwise not entitled, the Participant irrevocably agrees never to institute any claim against the Company, its Affiliates or the Employer, waives his or her ability, if any, to bring any such claim, and releases the Company, its Affiliates and the Employer from any such claim; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction, then, by participating in the Plan, the Participant shall be deemed irrevocably to have agreed not to pursue such claim and agrees to execute any and all documents necessary to request dismissal or withdrawal of such claim;
(j) unless otherwise provided in the Plan or by the Company in its discretion, the SAR and the benefits evidenced by this Notice do not create any entitlement to have the SAR or any such benefits transferred to, or assumed by, another company nor to be exchanged, cashed out or substituted for, in connection with any corporate transaction affecting the Shares; and
(k) the following provisions apply only if the Participant is employed outside the United States:
(i) the SAR and the Shares subject to the SAR are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose; and
(ii) neither the Company, the Employer nor any Affiliate shall be liable for any foreign exchange rate fluctuation between the Participant's local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of the Shares or of any amounts due to the Participant pursuant to the exercise of the SAR or the subsequent sale of any Shares acquired upon exercise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By signing below, the Participant agrees to the terms and conditions of the SAR as set forth in this Notice.
 
 

Exhibit 10.9
WHEREAS, the board of directors of Rowan Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), assumed and adopted the Rowan Companies, Inc. Restated 1988 Nonqualified Stock Option Plan effective April 24, 1998 (which, as previously amended from time to time, is referred to herein as the "Plan");
WHEREAS, the stockholders of the Company approved and adopted, at the Special Meeting of the Stockholders on April 16, 2012, the Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization (the "Merger Agreement") by and between the Company and a newly formed Delaware limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of Rowan Delaware ("Rowan Mergeco"), pursuant to which Rowan Mergeco will merge with and into the Company (the "Merger"), with the Company surviving the merger as an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Rowan Companies plc, a newly formed public limited company incorporated under English law ("Rowan UK");
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, each outstanding share of common stock of the Company will be converted, on a one-for-one basis, into the right to receive a Class A Ordinary Share in Rowan UK;
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, outstanding equity awards relating to shares of common stock of the Company granted to employees and directors by the Company under the Company's equity incentive plans (including the Plan) prior to the effective time of the Merger will entitle the holder of such equity award to purchase, acquire or receive, or receive benefits or amounts based on, as applicable, an equal number of Shares (as defined below); and
WHEREAS, the board of directors of the Company has determined it is desirable to adopt this amendment to the Plan, contingent upon the consummation of the Merger and to be effective as of May 4, 2012 (or, if different, the effective date of the Merger), to reflect the provisions of the Merger Agreement and the effect of the Merger on the Plan and any awards outstanding under the Plan.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that, contingent upon the consummation of the Merger and effective as of May 4, 2012 (or, if different, the effective date of the Merger), the Plan is amended as follows:
 
"" means Rowan Companies plc, a public limited company incorporated under English law.
Rowan UK
"" means a Class A ordinary share of Rowan UK, nominal value $0.125.
Share
 
The Plan shall be administered by a committee (the "Committee") of, and appointed by, the board of directors or Rowan UK (the "Board").
 
Such Shares (x) may consist of newly allotted and issued Shares, Shares that have been acquired by the trustees of an employee benefit trust established in connection with the Plan, or Shares acquired on the open market and (y) shall be fully paid and nonassessable.
 
 

Exhibit 10.10
WHEREAS, the board of directors of Rowan Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), assumed and adopted the Rowan Companies, Inc. 1998 Nonemployee Directors Stock Option Plan effective April 24, 1998 (which, as previously amended from time to time, is referred to herein as the "Plan");
WHEREAS, the stockholders of the Company approved and adopted, at the Special Meeting of the Stockholders on April 16, 2012, the Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization (the "Merger Agreement") by and between the Company and a newly formed Delaware limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of Rowan Delaware ("Rowan Mergeco"), pursuant to which Rowan Mergeco will merge with and into the Company (the "Merger"), with the Company surviving the merger as an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Rowan Companies plc, a newly formed public limited company incorporated under English law ("Rowan UK");
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, each outstanding share of common stock of the Company will be converted, on a one-for-one basis, into the right to receive a Class A Ordinary Share in Rowan UK;
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, outstanding equity awards relating to shares of common stock of the Company granted to employees and directors by the Company under the Company's equity incentive plans (including the Plan) prior to the effective time of the Merger will entitle the holder of such equity award to purchase, acquire or receive, or receive benefits or amounts based on, as applicable, an equal number of Shares (as defined below); and
WHEREAS, the board of directors of the Company has determined it is desirable to adopt this amendment to the Plan, contingent upon the consummation of the Merger and to be effective as of May 4, 2012 (or, if different, the effective date of the Merger), to reflect the provisions of the Merger Agreement and the effect of the Merger on the Plan and any awards outstanding under the Plan.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that, contingent upon the consummation of the Merger and effective as of May 4, 2012 (or, if different, the effective date of the Merger), the Plan is amended as follows:
 
"" means Rowan Companies plc, a public limited company incorporated under English law.
Rowan UK
"" means a Class A ordinary share of Rowan UK, nominal value $0.125.
Share
 
The Plan shall be administered by the full board of directors of Rowan UK (the "Board").
 
Such Shares (x) may consist of newly allotted and issued Shares, Shares that have been acquired by the trustees of an employee benefit trust established in connection with the Plan, or Shares acquired on the open market and (y) shall be fully paid and nonassessable.
 
 

Exhibit 10.11
WHEREAS, the board of directors of Rowan Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), assumed and adopted the 2005 Rowan Companies, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan effective April 22, 2005 (which, as previously amended from time to time, is referred to herein as the "Plan");
WHEREAS, the stockholders of the Company approved and adopted, at the Special Meeting of the Stockholders on April 16, 2012, the Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization (the "Merger Agreement") by and between the Company and a newly formed Delaware limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of Rowan Delaware ("Rowan Mergeco"), pursuant to which Rowan Mergeco will merge with and into the Company (the "Merger"), with the Company surviving the merger as an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of Rowan Companies plc, a newly formed public limited company incorporated under English law ("Rowan UK");
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, each outstanding share of common stock of the Company will be converted, on a one-for-one basis, into the right to receive a Class A Ordinary Share in Rowan UK;
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, outstanding equity awards relating to shares of common stock of the Company granted to employees and directors by the Company under the Company's equity incentive plans (including the Plan) prior to the effective time of the Merger will entitle the holder of such equity award to purchase, acquire or receive, or receive benefits or amounts based on, as applicable, an equal number of Shares (as defined below); and
WHEREAS, the board of directors of the Company has determined it is desirable to adopt this amendment to the Plan, contingent upon the consummation of the Merger and to be effective as of May 4, 2012 (or, if different, the effective date of the Merger), to reflect the provisions of the Merger Agreement and the effect of the Merger on the Plan and any awards outstanding under the Plan.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that, contingent upon the consummation of the Merger and effective as of May 4, 2012 (or, if different, the effective date of the Merger), the Plan is amended as follows:
 
 
"" means the U.K. Companies Act of 2006.
Act
"" means the board of directors of Rowan UK.
Board
"" shall mean any of the Chief Executive Officer of Rowan UK and the four highest paid officers of Rowan UK other than the Chief Executive Officer, as described in Section 162(m)(3) of the Code.
Covered Employee
"" means April 22, 2005.
Effective Date
"" means the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
"" means Rowan Companies plc, a public limited company incorporated under English law.
Rowan UK
"" means the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
"" means a Class A ordinary share of Rowan UK, nominal value $0.125.
Share
 
 
 
Shares issued pursuant to the Plan (x) may be newly allotted and issued Shares, Shares that have been acquired by the trustees of an employee benefit trust established in connection with the Plan, or Shares acquired in the open market and (y) shall be fully paid and nonassessable. No fractional Shares shall be issued under the Plan. In the event that any fractional Shares would otherwise be issuable hereunder, the number of Shares issuable shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number.
 
 
(a) . The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. Subject to the provisions of this Plan, the Committee shall:
Committee, Meetings, Rule Making and Interpretations
(i) interpret this Plan and all Awards under this Plan;
(ii) make, amend and rescind such rules as it deems necessary or advisable for the proper administration of the Plan;
(iii) make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of this Plan;
(iv) correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in this Plan or in any Award under this Plan in the manner and to the extent that the Committee deems desirable to effectuate this Plan; and
(v) enter into arrangements or authorize the Company to be party to arrangements with the trustee of any employee benefit trust established by Rowan UK to facilitate the administration of Awards under the Plan.
Any action taken or determination made by the Committee pursuant to this or any other provision of the Plan shall be final, binding and conclusive on all affected persons, including, without limitation, the Company, any Affiliate, any grantee, holder or beneficiary of an Award, any shareholder and any Employee, Consultant or Non-Employee Director. The Committee may delegate any of its authority to any one or more members of the Board or to any other committee of the Board, provided such delegation is made in writing and specifically sets forth such delegated authority.
(b) .
Indemnity of Committee
No member of the Board or the Committee shall be liable for any action or determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Award granted hereunder, and the members of the Board and the Committee shall be entitled to indemnification and reimbursement by the Company and its Affiliates in respect of any claim, loss, damage or expense (including legal fees) arising therefrom to the fullest extent permitted by law and subject to the following provisions.
Nothing in this Section 1.4(b) shall exempt a director of a company (to any extent) from any liability that would otherwise attach to him in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the company.
 
Notwithstanding any provision in this Plan to the contrary, the Company does not make any indemnity in respect of:
(i) any claim brought against a director of the Company or of any associated company (for purposes of this Sections 1.4 (iii) only, a "Director") brought by the Company or an associated company for negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust;
(ii) any liability of a Director to pay:
(1) a fine imposed in criminal proceedings; or
(2) a sum payable to a regulatory authority by way of a penalty in respect of non-compliance with any requirement of a regulatory nature (however arising);
(3) any liability incurred by a Director:
(A) in defending any criminal proceedings in which he is convicted;
(B) in defending any civil proceedings brought by the Company or an associated company in which judgment is given against him; or
(C) in connection with any application under Section 661(3) or (4) of the Act or Section 1157 of the Act in which the court refuses to grant the Director relief.
For the purpose of this Section 1.4(i  ii), "company" means a company formed and registered under the Act, references to a conviction, judgment or refusal of relief are to the final decision in the relevant proceedings which shall be determined in accordance with Section 234(5) of the Act and references to an "associated company" are to an associated company of the Company within the meaning of the Act.
 
In order to exercise a Non-Qualified Option, the person or persons entitled to exercise such Non-Qualified Option shall deliver to the Company or its designee payment in full for (i) the Shares being purchased and (ii) unless other arrangements have been made with the Committee, any required withholding taxes. The payment of the exercise price for each Non-Qualified Option shall either be (x) in cash or by check payable and acceptable to the Company or its designee, or (y) with the consent of the Committee, which may be granted or withheld in the Committee's sole discretion, and upon compliance with such instructions as the Committee may specify, at the person's written request, the Company or its designee may deliver certificates for the Shares for which the Non-Qualified Option is being exercised to a broker for sale on behalf of the person, provided that the person has irrevocably instructed such broker to remit directly to the Company or its designee on the person's behalf from the proceeds of such sale the full
 
amount of the exercise price, plus all required withholding taxes. If the Committee so requires, such person or persons shall also deliver a written representation that all Shares being purchased are being acquired for investment and not with a view to, or for resale in connection with, any distribution of such Shares.
 
(c) . With the consent of the Committee, which may be granted or withheld in the Committee's sole discretion and upon compliance with such instructions as the Committee may specify, payment of the exercise price or withholding may be made, in whole or in part, with Shares with respect to which the Option is being exercised. If payment is to be made in such manner, then the Participant shall deliver to the Company or its designee a notice of exercise as to the number of Shares to be issued to the Participant as well as the number of Shares to be retained by the Company in payment. In such case, the notice of exercise shall include (A) a statement (i) directing the Company to retain the number of Shares from the exercise of the Options the Fair Market Value (as of the date of delivery of such notice) of which is equal to the portion of the exercise price and/or tax withholding with respect to which the Participant intends to make payment, and (ii) confirming the aggregate number of Shares to be delivered to the Participant; and (B) such additional payment in cash as shall be necessary, when added to the consideration paid with Shares subject to the Option, to pay the exercise price and tax withholding in full for all such Shares. If the Company or an Affiliate is required to withhold on account of any tax imposed as a result of an exercise of an Option by retention of optioned Shares under this Section, the Shares retained shall include an additional number of Shares whose Fair Market Value equals the amount thus required to be withheld at the applicable minimum statutory rate or other applicable withholding rate.
Alternative Payment for Shares
 
(a) The Restricted Shares shall be subject to such forfeiture restrictions (including, without limitation, limitations that qualify as a "substantial risk of forfeiture" within the meaning given to that term under Section 83 of the Code) and restrictions on transfer by the Participant and re-acquisition of the Shares by an employee benefit trust established in connection with the Plan as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine. Prior to the lapse of such restrictions, the Participant shall not be permitted to transfer such Shares. The Company shall have the right to cause such Shares to be transferred to an employee benefit trust established in connection with the Plan, for the amount of cash paid therefor, if any, if (i) the Participant's Employment from or services to the Company or an Affiliate is terminated by the Company or the Participant prior to the lapse of such restrictions or (ii) the Restricted Shares are forfeited by the Participant pursuant to the terms of the Award.
 
. If, for any reason, the restrictions imposed by the Committee upon Restricted Shares are not satisfied at the end of the Restricted Period, any Restricted Shares remaining subject to such restrictions shall thereupon be forfeited by the Participant and transferred to an employee benefit trust established in connection with the Plan, and the Participant may be required to complete certain documents in order to effectuate the transfer.
7.3 Forfeiture of Restricted Shares
 
or (c) any Award to violate the Act.
 
Upon termination, resignation or removal of a Participant under circumstances that do not cause such Participant to become fully vested, any remaining unvested Options, Restricted Shares, Restricted Share Units, Share Appreciation Rights or Performance Awards, as the case may be, shall either be forfeited back to the Company or transferred to an employee benefit trust established in connection with the Plan, as applicable, or, if appropriate under the terms of the Award, shall continue to be subject to the restrictions, terms and conditions set by the Committee with respect to such Award.
 
 
 
Any issuance of Shares pursuant to the exercise of an Option or in payment of any other Award under this Plan shall not be made until appropriate arrangements, satisfactory to the Company and Rowan UK, have been made for payment of any tax amounts (including U.K. tax, U.S. federal, state, local and other tax, foreign tax, as well as any social insurance contributions, national insurance contributions, payments on account, fringe benefit tax and any other tax-related items related to participation in the Plan and legally applicable to Participant, including any amount deemed by the Company or the Participant's employer, in its discretion, to be an appropriate charge to Participant even if legally applicable to the Company or the Participant's employer) that may be required to be withheld or paid by the Company or an Affiliate with respect thereto.
Such arrangements may, at the discretion of the Committee, include allowing the person to request the Company or Rowan UK, as applicable, to withhold Shares being acquired pursuant to the Award, whether through the exercise of an Option or as a distribution pursuant to the Award, which have an aggregate FMV Per Share as of the date of such
 
withholding that is not greater than the sum of all tax amounts to be withheld with respect thereto at the minimum statutory rate or other applicable withholding rate, together with payment of any remaining portion of such tax amounts in cash or by check payable and acceptable to the Company and Rowan UK.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if on the date of an event giving rise to a tax withholding obligation on the part of the Company or an Affiliate the person is an officer or individual subject to Rule 16b-3, such person may direct that such tax withholding be effectuated by the Company or Rowan UK, as applicable, withholding the necessary number of Shares (at the minimum statutory rate or other applicable withholding rate) from such Award payment or exercise.
 
Except as provided under Article VII of this Plan, no provision of this Plan shall require the Company, for the purpose of satisfying any obligations under this Plan, to purchase assets or place any assets in a trust or other entity to which contributions are made or otherwise to segregate any assets, nor shall the Company be required to maintain separate bank accounts, books, records or other evidence of the existence of a segregated or separately maintained or administered fund for such purposes.
 
 

Exhibit 10.12
U. S. Registered Mail, Return Receipt Requested
                , 2012
Dear                     :
As you know, Rowan Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("the Company"), will soon be an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of the English public limited company "Rowan Companies plc" ("Rowan UK"). At the time the Company entered into the Change in Control Agreement and Change in Control Supplement (together, "your Agreement") with you, it was our mutual intent that the triggering change in control would be determined based on the ownership of the Company. As a result of the merger and reorganization, it is the ownership of Rowan UK that is determinative for this purpose; accordingly, we are furnishing you this notice with respect to your Agreement.
The definition of "Change in Control" under your Agreement will be interpreted with respect to the ownership of Rowan UK and not with respect to the ownership of the Company.
Additionally, any benefits which may be provided to you by Rowan UK will be treated under your Agreement as if they were provided by the Company. Finally, any duties, responsibilities and obligations you have under your Agreement with respect to the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates (e.g., covenants regarding confidential information, non-solicitation and goodwill) will also run to and for the benefit of Rowan UK.
Please sign below on the first signature line acknowledging your agreement with this notice, leave undated and return to                     no later than                     , 2012. If you have any questions, please call                     at                     .
ACKNOWLEDGED BY:
Date accepted by Company
                    

Exhibit 10.13
THIS DEED OF INDEMNITY (the "") is effective as of , 2012 by and between Rowan Companies plc, a public limited company incorporated in England (the ""), and (the "").
Deed
                    
Company
            
Indemnitee
WHEREAS, the Indemnitee has been asked to serve as a director, secretary, officer or executive of the Company and, as partial consideration for agreeing to do so, the Company has agreed to enter into this Deed with Indemnitee;
WHEREAS, the Company and Rowan Delaware desire to attract and retain the services of highly qualified individuals, such as Indemnitee, to serve the Rowan group of companies and provide for the indemnification of, and advancement of expenses to, such persons to the maximum extent permitted by law;
WHEREAS, it is reasonable, prudent and necessary for the Company contractually to obligate itself to indemnify persons serving as directors, secretaries, officers and executives of the Company to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law so that they will serve or continue to serve in such capacities free from undue concern that they will not be so indemnified;
WHEREAS, the Indemnitee is willing to serve and continue to serve as a director, secretary, officer or executive on the condition that he be so indemnified;
WHEREAS, Rowan Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("") and Rowan Mergeco, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (""), have entered into and adopted an agreement and plan of merger and reorganization (as amended, the "") whereby Rowan Mergeco will merge with and into Rowan Delaware (the "");
Rowan Delaware
Rowan Mergeco
Merger Agreement
Merger
WHEREAS, upon completion of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement (the ""), Rowan Delaware will become the wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, and as a result, each issued and outstanding share of common stock of Rowan Delaware will become one Class A Ordinary Share of the Company;
Effective Time
WHEREAS, in addition to any rights granted to Indemnitee under any agreement entered into between Indemnitee and the Company, the parties desire to enter into this Deed to provide for the indemnification of, and advancement of expenses to, Indemnitee to the maximum extent permitted by law;
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the covenants contained herein, the Company and the Indemnitee do hereby covenant and agree as follows:
Section 1. The Indemnitee agrees to serve at the request of the Company and Rowan Delaware as a director of the Company (including, without limitation, service on one or more committees of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "")) or as a secretary, executive or officer of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Indemnitee may at any time and for any reason resign from any such position, and this Deed shall not be construed as and is not an employment contract between the Company or Rowan Delaware (or any of their subsidiaries or any enterprise) and Indemnitee.
Services by the Indemnitee. 
Board
Section 2. .The Company shall indemnify, and advance Expenses (as hereinafter defined) to, the Indemnitee as provided in this Deed and to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law in effect on the date hereof and to such greater extent as applicable law may thereafter from time to time permit. The rights of the Indemnitee provided under the preceding sentence shall include, but shall not be limited to, the rights set forth in the other Sections of this Deed.
Indemnification - General
 
Section 3. . The Indemnitee shall be entitled to the rights of indemnification provided in this if, by reason of his Corporate Status (as hereinafter defined), he is, or is threatened to be made, a party to or participant in any threatened, pending or completed Proceeding (as hereinafter defined). Pursuant to this , to the extent not prohibited by law and subject to , the Company shall indemnify the Indemnitee against Expenses, judgments, penalties, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him or on his behalf in connection with such Proceeding or any claim, issue or matter therein arising out of or in connection with:
Proceedings
Section 3
Section 3
Section 11
(a) his appointment or service as a director, secretary, officer or executive of the Company or to any other Corporate Status;
(b) an act done, concurred in or omitted to be done (including any inaction) by the Indemnitee in connection with the Indemnitee's performance of his functions, or service, as a director, secretary, officer or executive of the Company or as a holder of any other Corporate Status; or
(c) an investigation, examination or other Proceeding ordered or commissioned in connection with the affairs of the Company or any of its Affiliates, or of any other enterprise including the same reasonably incurred as a result of defending or settling any Proceeding.
Section 4. .
Indemnification for Expenses of a Party Who is Wholly or Partly Successful
(a) Subject to , to the extent that the Indemnitee is, by reason of his Corporate Status, a party to and is successful, on the merits or otherwise, in any Proceeding, the Company shall indemnify the Indemnitee against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him or on his behalf in connection therewith. If the Indemnitee is not wholly successful in defense of any Proceeding but is successful, on the merits or otherwise, as to one or more but less than all claims, issues or matters in such Proceeding, the Company shall indemnify the Indemnitee against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him or on his behalf in connection with each such claim, issue or matter as to which the Indemnitee is successful, on the merits or otherwise. For purposes of this , the term "successful, on the merits or otherwise," shall include, but shall not be limited to, (i) the termination of any claim, issue or matter in a Proceeding by withdrawal or dismissal, with or without prejudice, (ii) termination of any claim, issue or matter in a Proceeding by any other means without any express finding of liability or guilt against the Indemnitee, with or without prejudice, or (iii) the expiration of 120 days after the making of a claim or threat of a Proceeding without the institution of the same and without any promise or payment made to induce a settlement. The provisions of this are subject to below.
Section 11
Section 4(a)
Section 4(a)
Section 4(b)
(b) In no event shall the Indemnitee be entitled to indemnification under above with respect to a claim, issue or matter to the extent (i) applicable law prohibits such indemnification or (ii) an admission is made by the Indemnitee in writing to the Company or in such Proceeding or a final, nonappealable determination is made in such Proceeding that the standard of conduct required for indemnification under this Deed has not been met with respect to such claim, issue or matter.
Section 4(a)
 
Section 5. .Notwithstanding any other provision herein to the contrary but subject to , to the fullest extent provided by applicable law and to the extent that the Indemnitee is, by reason of his Corporate Status, a witness in any Proceeding, the Company shall indemnify the Indemnitee against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by or on behalf of the Indemnitee in connection therewith.
Indemnification for Expenses as a Witness
 
Section 11
Section 6. . The Company shall advance, to the extent not prohibited by law, all reasonable Expenses incurred by or on behalf of the Indemnitee in connection with any Proceeding within 10 days after the receipt by the Company of a statement or statements from the Indemnitee requesting such advance or advances from time to time, whether prior to or after the final disposition of such Proceeding. Such statement or statements shall reasonably evidence the Expenses incurred by or on behalf of the Indemnitee. The Indemnitee hereby expressly undertakes to repay such amounts advanced, if, but only if, and then only to the extent that: (i) those amount fall to be repaid in accordance with s205 CA 2006 (and the Company has not validly indemnified the Indemnitee in respect of such amounts under any other provision of this Agreement and, where applicable, in accordance with s234 CA 2006) or (ii) it is otherwise determined by a final, non-appealable adjudication or arbitration decision that the Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified against such Expenses. All amounts advanced to the Indemnitee by the Company pursuant to this Section 6 shall be without interest. The Company shall make all advances pursuant to this Section 6 without regard to the financial ability of the Indemnitee to make repayment, without bond or other security and without regard to the prospect of whether the Indemnitee may ultimately be found to be entitled to indemnification under the provisions of this Deed. Any required reimbursement of Expenses by the Indemnitee shall be made by the Indemnitee to the Company, in the case of (i) above, as they fall to be repaid in accordance with s205 CA 2006 and, in the case of (ii), within 10 days following the entry of the final, non-appealable adjudication or arbitration decision pursuant to which it is determined that the Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified against such Expenses.
Advancement of Expenses
Section 7. .
Procedure for Determination of Entitlement to Indemnification
(a) To obtain indemnification under this Deed, following final disposition of the applicable Proceeding, the Indemnitee shall submit to the Company a written request therefor, along with such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the Indemnitee and reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification; , , that no deficiency in any such request, documentation or information shall adversely affect the Indemnitee's rights to indemnification or advancement of Expenses under this Deed. The Secretary of the Company shall, promptly upon receipt of such a request for indemnification, advise the Board in writing that the Indemnitee has requested indemnification.
provided
however
(b) Upon written request by the Indemnitee for indemnification pursuant to the first sentence of hereof, a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to the Indemnitee's entitlement thereto shall be made in the specific case: (i) by the Board by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined); or (ii) if a quorum of the Board consisting Disinterested Directors is not obtainable or, even if obtainable, such quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by Independent Counsel (as hereinafter defined), as selected pursuant to , in a written opinion to the Board (which opinion may be a "should hold" or a "more likely than not" opinion), a copy of which shall be delivered to the Indemnitee. If it is so determined that the Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Company shall make payment to the Indemnitee within 10 days after such determination. The Indemnitee shall cooperate with the Person or Persons making such determination with respect to the Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification, including providing to such Person or Persons
Section 7(a)
Section 7(d)
 
upon reasonable advance request any documentation or information which is not privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure and which is reasonably available to the Indemnitee and reasonably necessary to such determination. Subject to the provisions of hereof, any costs or expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements) incurred by the Indemnitee in so cooperating with the Person or Persons making such determination shall be borne by the Company, and the Company hereby agrees to indemnify and hold the Indemnitee harmless therefrom.
Section 9
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Change of Control has occurred, the Indemnitee may require a determination with respect to the Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification to be made by Independent Counsel, as selected pursuant to , in a written opinion to the Board (which opinion may be a "should hold" or a "more likely than not" opinion), a copy of which shall be delivered to the Indemnitee.
Section 7(d)
(d) In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel pursuant to or  hereof, the Independent Counsel shall be selected as provided in this . If a Change of Control shall not have occurred, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the Board (including a vote of a majority of the Disinterested Directors if obtainable), and the Company shall give written notice to the Indemnitee advising him of the identity of the Independent Counsel so selected. If a Change of Control shall have occurred, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the Indemnitee (unless the Indemnitee shall request that such selection be made by the Board, in which event the preceding sentence shall apply), and approved by the Company (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed). If (i) an Independent Counsel is to make the determination of entitlement pursuant to or  hereof, and (ii) within 20 days after submission by the Indemnitee of a written request for indemnification pursuant to hereof, no Independent Counsel shall have been selected, either the Company or the Indemnitee may petition any auditing firm of internationally-recognized status for the appointment as Independent Counsel of a Person selected by such firm or by such other Person as such firm shall designate. The Company shall pay any and all reasonable fees and expenses of Independent Counsel incurred by such Independent Counsel in connection with acting pursuant to or  hereof, and the Company shall pay all reasonable fees and expenses incident to the procedures of this , regardless of the manner in which such Independent Counsel was selected or appointed. Upon the due commencement of any judicial proceeding or arbitration pursuant to of this Deed, Independent Counsel shall be discharged and relieved of any further responsibility in such capacity (subject to the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing).
Section 7(b)
(c)
Section 7(d)
Section 7(b)
(c)
Section 7(a)
Section 7(b)
(c)
Section 7(d)
Section 9(a)(vi)
Section 8. .
Presumptions and Effect of Certain Proceedings; Construction of Certain Phrases
(a) Without prejudice to below, in making a determination with respect to whether the Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification hereunder, the Person(s) making such determination shall presume that the Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification under this Deed if the Indemnitee has submitted a request for indemnification in accordance with of this Deed, and anyone seeking to overcome this presumption shall have the burden of proof.
Section 11
Section 7(a)
(b) Subject to the terms of below, the termination of any Proceeding or of any claim, issue or matter therein, by judgment, order, settlement or conviction, shall not (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Deed) of itself adversely affect the right of the Indemnitee to indemnification or create a presumption that the Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company or, with respect to any criminal Proceeding, that the Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.
Section 15
 
(c) Without prejudice to below, for purposes of any determination of the Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification under this Deed or otherwise, the Indemnitee shall be deemed to have acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company, if it is determined by the Board or by the Independent Counsel, as applicable, that the Indemnitee's actions were based on reliance in good faith on the records or books of account of the Company or another enterprise, including financial statements, or on information supplied to the Indemnitee by the officers of the Company or another enterprise in the course of their duties, or on the advice of legal or financial counsel for the Company or the Board (or any committee thereof) or for another enterprise or its board of directors (or any committee thereof), or on information or records given or reports made by an independent certified public accountant or by an appraiser or other expert selected by the Company or the Board (or any committee thereof) or by another enterprise or its board of directors (or any committee thereof). For purposes of this , the term "another enterprise" means any other corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise of which the Indemnitee is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, secretary, officer, executive, employee or agent. The provisions of this shall not be deemed to be exclusive or to limit in any way the other circumstances in which the Indemnitee may be deemed or found to have met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in this Deed. In addition, the knowledge and/or actions, or failure to act, of any other director, trustee, partner, managing member, fiduciary, officer, agent or employee of the Company shall not be imputed to the Indemnitee for purposes of determining the right to indemnification under this Deed. Whether or not the foregoing provisions of this are satisfied, it shall in any event be presumed that the Indemnitee has acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company. Anyone seeking to overcome this presumption shall have the burden of proof.
Section 11
Section 8(c)
Section 8(c)
Section 8(c)
(d) For purposes of this Deed, references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on the Indemnitee with respect to an employee benefit plan; references to "serving at the request of the Company" shall include, but shall not be limited to, any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company which imposes duties on, or involves services by, the Indemnitee with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or its beneficiaries; and if the Indemnitee has acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan, he shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Company" as used in this Deed. The provisions of this shall not be deemed to be exclusive or to limit in any way the other circumstances in which the Indemnitee may be deemed or found to have met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in this Deed.
Section 8(d)
Section 9. .
Remedies of the Indemnitee
(a) In the event that (i) a determination is made pursuant to of this Deed that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Deed, (ii) advancement of Expenses is not timely made pursuant to of this Deed, (iii) the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by the Board pursuant to of this Deed and such determination shall not have been made and delivered to the Indemnitee in writing within 20 days after receipt by the Company of the request for indemnification, (iv) the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel pursuant to or  of this Deed and such determination shall not have been made in a written opinion to the Board and a copy delivered to the Indemnitee within 45 days after receipt by the Company of the request for indemnification, (v) payment of indemnification is not made pursuant to of this Deed within 10 days after receipt by the Company of a written request
Section 8
Section 6
Section 7(b)
Section 7(b)
(c)
Section 5
 
therefor or (vi) payment of indemnification is not made within 10 days after a determination has been made that the Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification or such determination is deemed to have been made pursuant to or of this Deed, the Indemnitee shall be entitled to bring a claim in the English courts of his entitlement to such indemnification or advancement of Expenses. Alternatively, the Indemnitee, at his sole option, may seek an award in arbitration to be conducted by a single arbitrator pursuant to the rules of the American Arbitration Association. The Indemnitee shall commence such Proceeding seeking an adjudication or an award in arbitration within 180 days following the date on which the Indemnitee first has the right to commence such Proceeding pursuant to this ; , , that the foregoing clause shall not apply in respect of a Proceeding brought by the Indemnitee to enforce his rights under of this Deed.
Section 7
8
Section 9(a)
provided
however
Section 4
(b) In any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this , the Company shall have the burden of proving that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification.
Section 9
(c) If a determination is made or deemed to have been made pursuant to or 8 of this Deed that the Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Company shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this , absent (i) an intentional misstatement by the Indemnitee of a material fact, or an intentional omission by the Indemnitee of a material fact necessary to make the Indemnitee's statement not materially misleading, in connection with the request for indemnification, or (ii) a prohibition of such indemnification under applicable law.
Section 7
Section 9
(d) The Company shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this that the procedures and presumptions of this Deed are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in any such court or before any such arbitrator that the Company is bound by all of the provisions of this Deed.
Section 9
(e) In the event that the Indemnitee, pursuant to this , seeks a order from the English courts or an award in arbitration to enforce his rights under, or to recover damages for breach of, this Deed, the Indemnitee shall be entitled to recover from the Company, and shall be indemnified by the Company against, any and all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him in such judicial proceeding or arbitration to the fullest extent permitted by law; provided, however, that until such final determination is made, the Indemnitee shall be entitled under and as provided in to receive payment of Expenses hereunder with respect to such Proceeding to the fullest extent permitted by law. In the event that a Proceeding is commenced by or in the right of the Company against the Indemnitee to enforce or interpret any of the terms of this Deed, the Indemnitee shall be entitled to recover from the Company, and shall be indemnified by the Company against, any and all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him in such Proceeding (including with respect to any counter-claims or cross-claims made by the Indemnitee against the Company in such Proceeding) to the fullest extent permitted by law; provided, however, that until such final determination is made, the Indemnitee shall be entitled under and as provided in Section 6 to receive payment of Expenses hereunder with respect to such Proceeding.
Section 9
Section 6
(f) Any judicial adjudication or arbitration determined under this shall be final and binding on the parties.
Section 9
Section 10. . In the event the Company shall be obligated under this Deed to pay the Expenses of any Proceeding against the Indemnitee in which the Company is a co-defendant with the Indemnitee, the Company shall be entitled to assume the defense of such Proceeding, with counsel approved by the Indemnitee, which approval shall not
Defense of Certain Proceedings
 
be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed, upon the delivery to the Indemnitee of written notice of its election to do so. After delivery of such notice, approval of such counsel by the Indemnitee and the retention of such counsel by the Company, the Indemnitee shall nevertheless be entitled to employ or continue to employ his own counsel in such Proceeding. Employment of such counsel by the Indemnitee shall be at the cost and expense of the Company unless and until the Company shall have demonstrated to the reasonable satisfaction of the Indemnitee and the Indemnitee's counsel that there is complete identity of issues and defenses and no conflict of interest between the Company and the Indemnitee in such Proceeding, after which time further employment of such counsel by the Indemnitee shall be at the cost and expense of the Indemnitee. In all events, if the Company shall not, in fact, have timely employed counsel to assume the defense of such Proceeding, then the fees and Expenses of the Indemnitee's counsel shall be at the cost and expense of the Company.
Section 11. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Deed, the Indemnitee shall not be entitled to indemnification or advancement of Expenses under this Deed with respect of:
Exception to Right of Indemnification or Advancement of Expenses
(a) any liability of the Indemnitee to pay:
(i) a fine imposed in criminal proceedings; or
(ii) a sum payable to a regulatory authority by way of a penalty in respect of non-compliance with any requirement of a regulatory nature (however arising);
(b) any liability incurred by the Indemnitee:
(i) in defending any criminal proceedings in which he is convicted;
(ii) in defending any civil proceedings brought by the Company or an Associated Company in which judgment is given against him; or
(iii) in connection with any application under Section 661(3) or (4) CA 2006 or Section 1157 CA 2006 in which the court refuses to grant the Director relief,
and references to a conviction, judgment or refusal of relief are to the final decision in the proceedings which shall be determined in accordance with Section 234(5) CA2006;
(c) any Proceeding or any claim therein, brought or made by the Indemnitee against the Company or Rowan Delaware, except for (i) any claim or Proceeding in respect of this Deed and/or the Indemnitee's rights hereunder, (ii) any claim or Proceeding to establish or enforce a right to indemnification under (A) any statute or law, (B) any other agreement with the Company or (C) the Company's Articles of Association as now or hereafter in effect and (iii) any counter-claim or cross-claim brought or made by him against the Company or Rowan Delaware in any Proceeding brought by or in the right of the Company or Rowan Delaware against him; and
(d) any Proceeding or any claim therein, brought or made by the Indemnitee against any other Person, except for Proceedings or claims approved by the Board.
 
Section 12. .
Contribution
(a) If, with respect to any Proceeding, the indemnification and/or advancement of Expenses provided for in this Deed is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unavailable to the Indemnitee for any reason other than that the Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company, the Company shall contribute, to the extent permitted by applicable law, to the amount of Expenses, judgments, penalties, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by the Indemnitee or on his behalf in connection with such Proceeding or any claim, issue or matter therein in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Indemnitee and the relative fault of the Indemnitee versus the other defendants or participants in connection with the action or inaction which resulted in such Expenses, judgments, penalties, fines and amounts paid in settlement, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
(b) The Company and the Indemnitee agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this were determined by pro rata or per capita allocation or by any other method of allocation which does not take into account the equitable considerations referred to in above.
Section 12
Section 12(a)
(c) No Person found guilty of fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not found guilty of such fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation.
Section 13. .
Liability Insurance
(a) The Company shall use all commercially reasonable efforts to obtain and maintain in effect during the entire period for which the Company is obligated to indemnify the Indemnitee under this Deed, one or more policies of insurance with reputable insurance companies to provide the directors, secretaries, officers and executives of the Company and any other Corporate Status with coverage for losses from wrongful acts and omissions and to ensure the Company's performance of its indemnification obligations under this Deed. In all such insurance policies, the Indemnitee shall be named as an insured in such a manner as to provide the Indemnitee with the same rights and benefits as are accorded to the most favorably insured of the Company's directors, secretaries, officers and executives. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall have no obligation to obtain or maintain such insurance if the Company determines in good faith that the Indemnitee is covered (in the capacities available to Indemnitee for indemnification under this Deed) by such insurance maintained by a subsidiary or parent of the Company.
(b) To the extent that the Company or Rowan Delaware maintains an insurance policy or policies providing liability insurance for directors, secretaries, officers or executives of any other corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise which the Indemnitee serves at the request of the Company or Rowan Delaware, the Indemnitee shall be named as an insured under and shall be covered by such policy or policies in accordance with its or their terms to the maximum extent of the coverage available for the most favorably insured director, secretary, officer or executive under such policy or policies.
 
(c) In the event that the Company is a named insured under any policy or policies of insurance referenced in either or  above, the Company hereby covenants and agrees that it will not settle any claims or Proceedings that may be covered by such policy or policies of insurance and in which the Indemnitee has or may incur Expenses, judgments, penalties, fines or amounts paid in settlement without the prior written consent of the Indemnitee.
Section 13(a)
(b)
Section 14. . Upon reasonable request by the Indemnitee, the Company shall provide security to the Indemnitee for the Company's obligations hereunder through an irrevocable bank letter of credit, funded trust or other similar collateral. Any such security, once provided to the Indemnitee, may not be revoked or released without the prior written consent of the Indemnitee, which consent may be granted or withheld at the Indemnitee's sole and absolute discretion.
Security
Section 15. . The Indemnitee hereby agrees that, not less than three business days prior to entering into a settlement of any Proceeding, the Indemnitee shall provide the Company with written notice of such settlement and copies of all documents and agreements related thereto.
Settlement of Claims
Section 16. . This Deed shall be unaffected by the termination of the Corporate Status of the Indemnitee and shall continue for so long as the Indemnitee may have any liability or potential liability by virtue of his Corporate Status, including, without limitation, the final termination of all pending Proceedings in respect of which the Indemnitee is granted rights of indemnification or advancement of Expenses hereunder and of any Proceeding commenced by the Indemnitee pursuant to of this Deed relating thereto, whether or not he is acting or serving in such capacity at the time any liability or Expense is incurred for which indemnification can be provided under this Deed. This Deed shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors (including any direct or indirect successor by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise to all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company), assigns, spouses, heirs, executors and personal and legal representatives.
Duration of Deed
Section 9
Section 17. . The Company hereby covenants and agrees to submit any and all disputes relating to this Deed that the parties are unable to resolve between themselves to binding arbitration pursuant to the rules of the American Arbitration Association, and waives all rights to judicial adjudication of any matter or dispute relating to this Deed, except where judicial adjudication is requested or required by the Indemnitee.
Remedies of the Company
Section 18. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Deed, neither party shall have any liability to the other for, and neither party shall be entitled to recover from the other, any consequential, special, punitive, multiple or exemplary damages as a result of a breach of this Deed.
Limitation of Liability
Section 19. . In the event of any payment under this Deed, the Company and Rowan Delaware shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of the Indemnitee, who shall execute all papers required and take all action necessary to secure such rights, including execution of such documents as are necessary to enable the Company and/or Rowan Delaware to bring suit to enforce such rights.
Subrogation
Section 20. . For purposes of this Deed:
Definitions
(a) "" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control with such Person. For purposes hereof, "control" (including, with correlative meaning, the terms "controlling", "controlled by" and "under common control with") means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of management and policies of such Person, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
 
(b) "" shall be construed in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 (the "").
Associated Company
CA 2006
(c) "" shall mean a change in control of the Company occurring after the date of this Deed of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A (or in response to any similar item on any similar schedule or form) promulgated under the Exchange Act, whether or not the Company is then subject to such reporting requirement. Without limiting the foregoing, such a Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if, after the date of this Deed, (i) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors without the prior approval of at least two-thirds of the members of the Board in office immediately prior to such person attaining such percentage interest; (ii) the Company is a party to a merger, consolidation, sale of assets or other reorganization, or a proxy contest, as a consequence of which members of the Board in office immediately prior to such transaction or event constitute less than a majority of the Board thereafter; (iii) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board (including for this purpose any new director whose election or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of such period) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; or (iv) approval by the shareholders of the Company of a liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
Change of Control
(d) "" describes the status of an individual who is or was a director, secretary, officer, executive, fiduciary, trustee, employee or agent of the Company or any of the Company's Affiliates (including Rowan Delaware), or is or was serving at the request of the Company or any of its Affiliates (including Rowan Delaware) as a director, secretary, officer, executive, fiduciary, trustee, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise.
Corporate Status
(e) "" means a director of the Company who is not and was not a party to, or otherwise involved in, the Proceeding for which indemnification is sought by the Indemnitee.
Disinterested Director
(f) "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
(g) "" shall include all reasonable attorneys' fees, retainers, court costs, transcript costs, fees of experts, witness fees, travel expenses, duplicating costs, printing and binding costs, telephone charges, postage, delivery service fees and all other disbursements or expenses of the types customarily incurred in connection with prosecuting, defending, preparing to prosecute or defend, investigating or being or preparing to be a witness in a Proceeding.
Expenses
(h) "" means a law firm or a member of a law firm that is experienced in matters of corporation law and neither presently is, nor in the past five (5) years has been, retained to represent: (i) the Company, Rowan Delaware or the Indemnitee in any matter material to either such party or (ii) any other party to the Proceeding giving rise to a claim for indemnification hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Independent Counsel" shall not include any Person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Company, Rowan Delaware or the Indemnitee in an action to determine the Indemnitee's rights under this Deed.
Independent Counsel
 
(i) "" means a natural person, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation, company, limited liability company, trust, business trust, estate or other entity.
Person
(j) "" includes any action, suit, arbitration, alternate dispute resolution mechanism, investigation, administrative hearing or any other proceeding whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative.
Proceeding
Section 21. . The Indemnitee's rights of indemnification and to receive advancement of Expenses as provided by this Deed shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which the Indemnitee may at any time be entitled under applicable law, the Company's Articles of Association, any other agreement, a vote of shareholders, a resolution of directors or otherwise (which expressly include, for the avoidance of doubt, the Indemnity's rights of indemnification pursuant to his or her indemnification agreement entered into with Rowan Delaware and other rights to indemnification pursuant to Delaware law).
Non-Exclusivity
Section 22. . No right or remedy herein conferred upon the Indemnitee is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every other right or remedy shall be cumulative of and in addition to the rights and remedies given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy of the Indemnitee hereunder or otherwise shall not be deemed an election of remedies on the part of the Indemnitee and shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other right or remedy by the Indemnitee.
Remedies Not Exclusive
Section 23. . In the event that a change in applicable law after the date of this Deed, whether by statute, rule or judicial decision, expands or otherwise increases the right or ability of an English limited company to indemnify (or to otherwise pay or advance Expenses as to any Proceeding for the benefit of) a director, secretary, officer or executive, the Indemnitee shall, by this Deed, enjoy the greater benefits so afforded by such change. In the event that a change in applicable law after the date of this Deed, whether by statute, rule or judicial decision, narrows or otherwise reduces the right or ability of an English limited company to indemnify (or to otherwise pay or advance Expenses as to any Proceeding for the benefit of) a director, secretary, officer or executive, such change shall have no effect on this Deed or any of the Indemnitee's rights hereunder, except and only to the extent required by law.
Changes in Law
Section 24. . The Company and the Indemnitee acknowledge and agree that it is their intention that this Deed be interpreted and enforced so as to provide indemnification to the Indemnitee to the fullest extent now or hereafter permitted by law.
Interpretation of Deed; Negligence
Section 25. . The parties intend that the rights granted under this Deed and the obligations of the Company hereunder comply in all respects with the applicable English law, including any limitations on indemnity or the ability for Indemnitee to request be excused for negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust (however such limitations or rights may exist from time to time under English law). If any provision or provisions of this Deed shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (a) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Deed (including, without limitation, each portion of any Section of this Deed containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; (b) such provision or provisions will be deemed reformed to the extent necessary to conform to applicable law and to give maximum effect to the intent of the parties hereto; and (c) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Deed (including, without limitation, each portion of any Section of this Deed containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision or provisions held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
Severability
 
Section 26. .
Governing Law; Jurisdiction and Venue; Specific Performance
(a)
The parties agree that this Deed shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with, the laws of England without giving effect to any choice or conflict of law provision or rule (whether of England or any other jurisdiction) that would cause the application of the laws of any jurisdiction other than England.
(b)
ANY "ACTION OR PROCEEDING" (AS SUCH TERM IS DEFINED BELOW) ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS DEED SHALL BE FILED IN AND LITIGATED OR ARBITRATED, AS THE CASE MAY BE, ONLY BEFORE THE ENGLISH COURTS OR THE AMERICAN ARBITRATION ASSOCIATION, AS APPLICABLE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TERMS OF THIS DEED, AND EACH PARTY TO THIS DEED: (i) GENERALLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY ACCEPTS THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE AFORESAID COURTS AND THE AMERICAN ARBITRATION ASSOCIATION, AS APPLICABLE, AND WAIVES TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW ANY DEFENSE OR OBJECTION TO SUCH JURISDICTION AND VENUE BASED UPON THE DOCTRINE OF "FORUM NON CONVENIENS;" AND (ii) GENERALLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING BY DELIVERY OF CERTIFIED OR REGISTERED MAILING OF THE SUMMONS AND COMPLAINT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE NOTICE PROVISIONS OF THIS DEED. FOR PURPOSES OF THIS SECTION, THE TERM "ACTION OR PROCEEDING" IS DEFINED AS ANY AND ALL CLAIMS, SUITS, ACTIONS, HEARINGS OR OTHER SIMILAR PROCEEDINGS, INCLUDING APPEALS AND PETITIONS THEREFROM. THE FOREGOING CONSENT TO JURISDICTION SHALL NOT CONSTITUTE GENERAL CONSENT TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN ENGLAND FOR ANY PURPOSE EXCEPT AS PROVIDED ABOVE, AND SHALL NOT BE DEEMED TO CONFER RIGHTS ON ANY PERSON OTHER THAN THE PARTIES TO THIS DEED. THIS PROVISION IS IN FURTHERANCE OF AND NOT BY WAY OF LIMITATION OF THE OTHER DISPUTE RESOLUTIONS PROVISIONS IN THIS DEED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION AND .
SECTIONS 9
26
(c)
The Company acknowledges that the Indemnitee may, as a result of the Company's breach of its covenants and obligations under this Deed, sustain immediate and long-term substantial and irreparable injury and damage which cannot be reasonably or adequately compensated by damages at law. Consequently, the Company agrees that the Indemnitee shall be entitled, in the event of the Company's breach or threatened breach of its covenants and obligations hereunder, to obtain equitable relief from a court of competent jurisdiction, including enforcement of each provision of this Deed by specific performance and/or temporary, preliminary and/or permanent injunctions enforcing any of the Indemnitee's rights, requiring performance by the Company, or enjoining any breach by the Company, all without proof of any actual damages that have been or may be caused to the Indemnitee by such breach or threatened breach and without the posting of bond or other security in connection therewith. The Company waives the claim or defense therein that the Indemnitee has an adequate remedy at law, and the Company shall not allege or otherwise assert the legal position that any such remedy at law exists. The Company agrees and acknowledges that: (i) the terms of this are fair, reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Indemnitee; (ii) this waiver is a material inducement to the Indemnitee to enter into the transactions contemplated hereby; and (iii) the Indemnitee relied upon this waiver in entering into this Deed and will continue to rely on this waiver in its future dealings with the Company. The Company represents and warrants that it has reviewed this provision with its legal counsel, and that it has knowingly and voluntarily waived its rights referenced in this following consultation with such legal counsel.
Section 26(c)
Section 26
 
Section 27. . Except as expressly required by applicable securities or tax laws, the Company shall not disclose any payments under this Deed without the prior written consent of the Indemnitee. Any payments to the Indemnitee that must be disclosed shall, unless otherwise required by law, be described only in the Company proxy or information statements relating to special and/or annual meetings of the Company's shareholders, and the Company shall (to the extent permitted by applicable law) afford the Indemnitee a reasonable opportunity to review all such disclosures and, if requested by the Indemnitee, to explain in such statement any mitigating circumstances regarding the events reported.
Nondisclosure of Payments
Section 28. .
Notice by the Indemnitee; Notice to Insurers
(a) The Indemnitee agrees to promptly notify the Company in writing upon being served with any summons, citation, subpoena, complaint, indictment, information or other document relating to any Proceeding or matter which may be subject to indemnification or advancement of Expenses covered hereunder; , , that the failure of the Indemnitee to timely provide such notice shall not affect the Indemnitee's right to be indemnified or to receive advancement of Expenses under this Deed except if, and then only to the extent that, the Company is actually prejudiced by such failure.
provided
however
(b) If, at the time of the receipt by the Company of a notice of a Proceeding pursuant to above, the Company has insurance in effect which may cover such Proceeding, the Company shall give prompt notice of the commencement of such Proceeding to the insurers in accordance with the procedures set forth in the respective policies. Subject to applicable law, the Company shall thereafter take all necessary or desirable action to cause such insurers to pay, on behalf of the Indemnitee, all amounts payable as a result of such Proceeding in accordance with the terms of such policies.
Section 28(a)
Section 29. . All notices, requests, demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if (a) delivered by hand and received for by the party to whom said notice or other communication shall have been directed, (b) mailed by U.S. certified or registered mail with postage prepaid, on the third business day after the date on which it is so mailed, or (c) sent via facsimile or electronic mail transmission (with electronic or telephonic confirmation of receipt): (i) If to the Company: Rowan Companies plc, c/o Rowan Companies, Inc., 2800 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 5450, Houston, Texas 77056, Facsimile: 713.960.7509, Email: jbuvens@rowancompanies.com Attention: John L. Buvens; and (ii) if to any other party hereto, including the Indemnitee, to the address of such party set forth on the signature page hereof; or to such other address as may have been furnished by any party to the other(s), in accordance with this .
Notices
Section 29
Section 30. . No supplement, modification or amendment of this Deed or any provision hereof shall limit or restrict in any way any right of the Indemnitee under this Deed with respect to any action taken or omitted by the Indemnitee in his Corporate Status prior to such supplement, modification or amendment. No supplement, modification or amendment of this Deed or any provision hereof shall be binding unless executed in writing by both of the Company and the Indemnitee. No waiver of any provision of this Deed shall be deemed or shall constitute a wavier of any other provision hereof (whether or not similar) nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver.
Modification and Waiver
 
Section 31. . Except as expressly set forth herein, this Deed embodies the final, entire agreement among the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any and all prior negotiations, commitments, agreements, representations and understandings, whether written or oral, relating to such subject matter and may not be contradicted or varied by evidence of prior, contemporaneous or subsequent oral agreements or discussions of the parties hereto.
Entire Agreement
Section 32. . The headings of the Sections or paragraphs of this Deed are inserted for convenience only and shall not be deemed to constitute part of this Deed or to affect the construction thereof.
Headings
Section 33. . Use of the masculine pronoun in this Deed shall be deemed to include usage of the feminine pronoun where appropriate.
Gender
Section 34. . This Deed may be executed in one or more counterparts (whether by original, photocopy or facsimile signature), each of which shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same document. Only one such counterpart executed by the party against whom enforcement is sought must be produced to evidence the existence of this Deed.
Identical Counterparts
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Deed effective as of the day and year first above written.
 
SIGNED as a deed by                         , Indemnitee
In the presence of
 
 
Name of witness:
Address of witness:
 


