FILE:RDC/RDC-8K-20120412150438.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information included under Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference.
 
As previously announced, Rowan Companies, Inc. (the "Company") will hold a special meeting of stockholders on April 16, 2012 (the "Special Meeting"), at which time the Company's stockholders will be asked to approve a proposal to adopt the Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization dated February 27, 2012 between the Company and Rowan Mergeco, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (as amended, the "Merger Agreement"), among other matters. The original Merger Agreement provided that at the effective time of the merger (the "Merger") each outstanding share of Company common stock would be converted on a one-for-one basis into the right to receive an American depositary share (collectively, the "ADS"), which represents one Class A Ordinary Share (collectively, the "Ordinary Shares") of a newly formed English public limited company to be named Rowan Companies plc ("Rowan UK").
Effective Time of the Merger
As previously disclosed in the Company's proxy statement for the Special Meeting, the Company is evaluating ways of making Ordinary Shares available for delivery (instead of ADS) in conjunction with the Merger and listing those Ordinary Shares on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"). The Company expects to amend its previously filed NYSE listing application to list the Ordinary Shares. We currently expect that the effective time of the Merger (the "Effective Time") will occur in May 2012, which is after our original estimated closing date of on or about April 18, 2012.
Although the Company is evaluating the use of Ordinary Shares in conjunction with the Merger, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in such efforts and the Company may cause ADS to be delivered in conjunction with the Merger, as originally contemplated. In such an event, the Company may still continue to explore the termination and/or amendment of the ADS capital structure and conversion to an Ordinary Share capital structure at any time after the Effective Time.
If Ordinary Shares are listed on the NYSE, Rowan UK would be a "quoted company" for purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, which would provide certain additional rights and certain additional disclosure obligations. These rights and obligations include, among others, the right to raise audit concerns, the right to require an independent report on poll votes and additional disclosure in Rowan UK's annual report.
Amendment to Merger Agreement
On April 12, 2012, the Company and Rowan Mergeco, LLC, entered into an amendment to the Merger Agreement (the "Amendment") to provide, among other matters, that the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") may authorize the conversion of Company common stock into the right to receive Ordinary Shares in lieu of the right to receive ADS at the Effective Time. If so authorized by the Board, at the Effective Time, each outstanding share of Company common stock (other than shares of Company common stock held in treasury) and each outstanding award under the Company's equity incentive plans (in each case, as further described in the Merger Agreement) shall be deemed to have converted into and shall become the right to receive Ordinary Shares or equity awards based upon Ordinary Shares, as applicable. If the Board authorizes such conversion, all references to ADS or similar concepts in the Merger Agreement, as appropriate, will be deemed to be references to Ordinary Shares and the provisions referencing ADS will have no application, other than in furtherance of the conversion of shares of Company common stock into Ordinary Shares.
The Amendment also provides that each registered holder of Company common stock will be entitled to receive the ADS or Ordinary Shares, as applicable, after it delivers a validly executed and duly completed letter of transmittal and stock certificate, if applicable. Until the letter of transmittal and any applicable stock certificate have been received, each share of Company common stock will represent only the right to receive the ADS or Ordinary Shares, as applicable, and any cash dividends or other distributions. Any holder who has not returned a validly executed and duly completed letter of transmittal and surrendered any applicable stock certificate will not be entitled to exercise voting rights with respect to the Ordinary Shares.
 
Custody Arrangement
If Ordinary Shares are issued in conjunction with the Merger, Ordinary Shares deliverable in respect of shares of Company common stock held of record (other than such shares held of record by Cede & Co., as nominee for The Depository Trust Company ("DTC")) will not be delivered to the record holders, but rather will be delivered to a bank or trust company that is a participant in DTC (the "Custodian"). The Custodian will hold such Ordinary Shares for the benefit of such holders until instructions are received from the holder, as described below.
If Ordinary Shares are issued in conjunction with the Merger, we would expect to terminate the previously disclosed ADS deposit agreement in conjunction with the closing of the Merger. We would also expect that all Ordinary Shares delivered in connection with the Merger will be transferred through the facilities of DTC. As a result, for record holders who hold share certificates representing shares of Company common stock or uncertificated shares of Company common stock that are not deposited with DTC, we expect Ordinary Shares will initially be delivered to Computershare Trust Company, N.A. ("Computershare"), an affiliate thereof, or another bank or trust company, as the Custodian for the exchange agent on behalf of such stockholders, and held in its account at DTC. We do not expect any fees to apply to the record holder unless and until the record holder chooses to enroll in custody services offered by the Custodian. We do not currently expect that any such holder who wishes to transfer its Ordinary Shares from the custody of the Custodian to another bank or broker within the DTC system or to receive certificated Ordinary Shares will be charged any fees to do so.
Following the Effective Time, former record holders of Company common stock will also be provided with terms and conditions governing the custody facility. Holders who wish the Custodian to hold their Ordinary Shares will be expected to provide the Custodian with "know your customer" information and other customary documentation and agree to certain terms and conditions. Certain non-U.S. shareholders will not be eligible to hold their Ordinary Shares through the Custodian. Any holders who do not elect to transfer their Ordinary Shares to a bank or broker within DTC or enroll in the custody facility may elect to receive Ordinary Shares in certificated form. Subsequent transfers of Ordinary Shares may attract stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax ("SDRT") under U.K. law.
Stamp Duty and SDRT
If Ordinary Shares are deposited with DTC, delivered in conjunction with the Merger and listed on the NYSE, holders of Ordinary Shares are strongly encouraged to hold their Ordinary Shares in book entry form through the facilities of DTC as described above. Any instrument of transfer of Ordinary Shares that are not held by a nominee for the purposes of the provision of clearance services will attract stamp duty at a rate of 0.5% of the consideration for the transfer. An unconditional agreement for such transfer, or a conditional agreement which subsequently becomes unconditional, will be liable for SDRT generally at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration for the transfer; but such liability will be cancelled if the agreement is completed by a duty stamped instrument of transfer within six years of the date of the agreement, or if the agreement was conditional, the date the agreement became unconditional. Where stamp duty is paid, any SDRT previously paid will be repaid on the making of an appropriate claim. Stamp duty and SDRT are normally paid by the purchaser.
Any such duty must be paid (and the relevant transfer document stamped by HMRC) before the transfer can be registered in the books of Rowan UK. Any transfer for no consideration will not attract a stamp duty or SDRT charge. If those shares are redeposited into DTC, the special transfer arrangements will attract stamp duty at a rate of 1.5% of the value of the shares (rounded up the nearest 5). These special transfer arrangements will require the depositing party to pay 1.5% stamp duty. This will necessarily result in greater delay and expense as compared to transfers by way of book entry through DTC.
Accordingly, Rowan UK may put in place arrangements to require that Ordinary Shares held in certificated form cannot be transferred into the DTC system until the transferor of such shares has first delivered the shares to a depositary specified by Rowan UK so that stamp duty may be collected in connection with the initial delivery to the depository. Any such Ordinary Shares will be evidenced by a receipt issued by the depositary. Before the transfer
 
can be registered in the books of Rowan UK, the transferor will also be required to pay funds into the depositary to settle the resultant liability to stamp duty, which will be charged at a rate of 1.5% of the value of the shares, rounded up to the nearest 5.
No stamp duty need, in practice, be paid on the acquisition or transfer of the beneficial ownership of Ordinary Shares held by a nominee as part of a clearance service, provided that any instrument of transfer or contract for sale is not executed in the U.K. and remains at all times outside the U.K. and the transfer does not relate to any matter or thing done or to be done in the U.K. An agreement for the transfer of such Ordinary Shares will not give rise to a SDRT liability.
The enforceability of the 1.5% charge to stamp duty and/or SDRT is in doubt and is the subject of ongoing litigation following the decision of the European Court of Justice in HSBC Holdings plc, Vidacos Nominees Ltd v HMRC Case C-569/07. More recently, the First Tier Tribunal (Tax Chamber) in HSBC Holdings plc, The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation v HMRC [2012] UKFTT 163 (TC) has held that the SDRT charge on the issue of shares into non-EU depositary receipt or clearance systems is unenforceable by virtue of European law, as a result of which it is understood that HMRC is no longer enforcing payment of SDRT on such issuances. This decision may, however, be subject to an appeal, and it is possible that the Tribunal's decision on this point would not be upheld by the higher tribunals and courts. If the Tribunal's decision were to be reversed on appeal, any SDRT that had not been paid in respect of share issuances on the basis of the First Tier Tribunal's decision would need to be remitted to HMRC together with interest for late payment. It is also possible that the U.K. government may change the law in relation to stamp duty and SDRT in response to this litigation, and that this will have a material effect on the cost of dealing in the Ordinary Shares. Our stockholders are encouraged to consult their own tax advisors prior to the Special Meeting regarding the particular tax considerations of the Merger applicable to them.
DTC Facility
DTC is the world's largest central securities depository, providing depository and book-entry transfer services for eligible securities, which are registered in the name of its nominee, Cede & Co. We believe that approximately 98% of the outstanding shares of Company common stock are currently held within the DTC system. If Ordinary Shares are delivered in conjunction with the Merger, we expect to enter into arrangements with DTC and its related parties whereby the Ordinary Shares will be eligible for deposit and book-entry transfer services at DTC, and we will agree to indemnify DTC and its related parties for any stamp duty and/or SDRT that may be assessed upon any of them as a result of their accepting the Ordinary Shares for deposit and providing book-entry transfer, clearance and settlement services for the Ordinary Shares. We expect that such arrangements will generally provide that DTC will have discretion in certain circumstances to restrict services to, or exit from the depository, the Ordinary Shares, including if DTC believes that it or any of its related parties might have any liability for stamp duty and/or SDRT in respect of the Ordinary Shares. In addition, we are seeking a ruling from HMRC in respect of related stamp duty and SDRT issues.
DTC has not yet determined that the Ordinary Shares will be eligible for its depository and book-entry transfer services and is not obligated to accept the Ordinary Shares for deposit in conjunction with the Merger. If DTC initially accepts the Ordinary Shares, it will generally have discretion to restrict services to, or reevaluate the eligibility of, the Ordinary Shares, including if DTC believes that it or any of its related parties might have any liability for stamp duty and/or SDRT in respect of the Ordinary Shares. If DTC determines at any time after the consummation of the Merger that the Ordinary Shares are not eligible for its depository and book-entry transfer services, then we believe the Ordinary Shares would not be eligible for continued listing on a U.S. securities exchange or inclusion in the S&P 500 and trading in the Ordinary Shares would be disrupted. While we would pursue alternative arrangements to preserve our listing and maintain trading, any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of the Ordinary Shares.
On April 12, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the Amendment and certain other items referenced in this Current Report on Form 8-K. The press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment, which is attached as Exhibit 2.1 and is incorporated into this Item 8.01 by reference. This Current Report on Form 8-K and the disclosures herein should be read in conjunction with the Company's proxy statement for the Special Meeting and the disclosures therein.
Consent Solicitation
In connection with the previously disclosed consent solicitation (the "Consent Solicitation"), promptly upon receipt of the required consents for the Consent Solicitation and the closing of the Merger, the Company and Rowan UK will enter into an amendment to the indenture, dated July 21, 2009, as amended (the "Indenture Supplement"), with U.S. Bank National Association, a nationally chartered banking association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), and Rowan UK will issue an unconditional and irrevocable guarantee of the prompt payment, when due, of any amount owed to the holders of the Company's 5% Senior Notes of due 2017 and the Company's 7.875% Senior Notes due 2019 (the "Rowan UK Guaranty"). If the required consents are obtained, but the Effective Time is delayed, then the effectiveness of the Indenture Supplement and the Rowan UK Guarantee would also be delayed until after the Effective Time occurs.
CREST System
We previously disclosed that transactions in uncertificated Ordinary Shares would be settled in the CREST system, the computerized settlement system operated by Euroclear U.K. & Ireland Limited (formerly known as CRESTCo Limited). Based upon technical differences between the CREST system and NYSE rules, Rowan UK expects to withdraw the Ordinary Shares from the CREST system in conjunction with the Merger and no longer settle uncertificated transactions through CREST.
 
Rowan UK has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a registration statement on Form S-4, which contains a definitive proxy statement/prospectus in connection with the proposed merger, and each of the Company and Rowan UK may be filing other relevant materials with the SEC in connection with the transaction. Stockholders and investors may obtain these documents, as well as other filings containing information about the Company and Rowan UK, for free at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov, and the Company's website, www.rowancompanies.com, under the "Investor Relations" heading by accessing the "SEC filings" link.
The Company urges its stockholders  including participants in its equity based incentive compensation plans  and investors to read carefully the proxy statement/prospectus (and any other document that the Company or Rowan UK subsequently files with the SEC) before making any voting or investment decision about the proposed merger, because they contain important information about the Company, Rowan UK and the proposed merger and related transactions.
The Company, Rowan UK and their directors and executive officers and certain other members of management and employees, as well as Innisfree M&A Incorporated (the Company's proxy solicitor), may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed change in corporate structure. Other information regarding the participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, is contained in the definitive proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials filed with the SEC. You can obtain free copies of the documents by accessing the SEC's and our website as described above.
Information about the directors and executive officers of the Company and their ownership in the Company is included in the registration statement filed with the SEC and the documents and information incorporated by reference therein.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 12, 2012
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
This Amendment No. 1 to Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization (this "") is entered into as of April 12, 2012, by and between Rowan Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), and Rowan Mergeco, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of Rowan Delaware (""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings set forth in the Merger Agreement (as defined below).
Amendment
Rowan Delaware
Rowan Mergeco
A. The parties hereto entered into that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization, dated February 27, 2012 (the "").
Merger Agreement
B. The parties hereto now desire to amend the Merger Agreement to provide for the possibility for Class A Ordinary Shares, par value US$0.125 per share (collectively, the ""), of Rowan UK to be, among others, receivable upon the conversion of the outstanding shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, and to make available Class A Ordinary Shares for listing on the New York Stock Exchange ("") in connection with, and at or about the Effective Time of, the Merger in lieu of ADS representing such Class A Ordinary Shares.
Class A Ordinary Shares
NYSE
C. Except as modified hereby, the Merger Agreement remains in full force and effect.
In consideration of the foregoing and of the covenants and agreements contained herein, and of other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Section 1.1 . Section 3.1 of the Merger Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following subsections:
Amendment to Section 3.1
(f) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement (including, but not limited to, ) and ()), at the sole discretion of the Board, the Board may authorize the conversion at the Effective Time of (i) the outstanding shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock (other than the issued shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock referenced in ) into and to become the right to receive Class A Ordinary Shares in lieu of the right to receive ADS and (ii) all outstanding options, stock appreciation rights, awards of restricted stock or restricted stock units or other rights to purchase, acquire or receive shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock (or the right to receive benefits or amounts by reference to those shares) under any Equity Plans (collectively, "") into options, stock appreciation rights, awards of restricted stock or restricted stock units or other rights to purchase, acquire, or receive Class A Ordinary Shares (or the right to receive benefits or amounts by reference to Class A Ordinary Shares), as applicable, in lieu of rights to purchase, acquire or receive ADS (or the right to receive benefits or amounts by reference to ADS). In such event, at the Effective Time, (x) each outstanding share of Rowan Delaware Common Stock (other than the issued shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock referenced in ) shall be converted into and shall become the right to receive one validly issued fully paid and nonassessable Class A Ordinary Share, and (y) each outstanding Equity Award shall be converted into an option, stock appreciation right, award of restricted stock or restricted stock units or other right to purchase, acquire, or receive Class A Ordinary Shares (or the right to receive benefits or amounts by reference to Class A Ordinary Shares), as applicable, on
Class A Ordinary Shares of Rowan UK; Applicability throughout Agreement
Section 3.1(b
d
Section 3.1(a)
Equity Awards
Section 3.1(a)
a one-for-one basis as further described in , in each case pursuant to the DGCL, for all purposes of this and all other provisions of this Agreement. If the Board so authorizes the conversion of Rowan Delaware Common Stock into the right to receive Class A Ordinary Shares in lieu of the right to receive ADS and Equity Awards into options, stock appreciation rights, awards of restricted stock or restricted stock units or other rights to purchase, acquire, or receive Class A Ordinary Shares (or the right to receive benefits or amounts by reference to Class A Ordinary Shares), as applicable, in lieu of ADS, all references to "ADS," "ADRs," "ADS and ADRs," "ADRs evidencing ADS," "ADS, as evidenced by the ADRs" and similar references and concepts in this Agreement (including, but not limited to, such references in , , and ), as appropriate and as the context so requires to further the purposes of this ), shall be deemed to instead be references to Class A Ordinary Shares, and such ADS and ADR references in any provisions hereof shall have no application, except if and to the extent such references are applicable to further the purposes of this ). The Board shall have broad authority to interpret, administer and implement this Section of the Agreement and the application of this Section on the other provisions of this Agreement.
Article 4
Section 3
Articles III
IV
V
VII
Section 3.1(f
Section 3.1(f
(g) . For the avoidance of doubt, nothing in this Agreement shall limit or prevent, or be deemed to limit or prevent, the delivery and/or availability of Class A Ordinary Shares if for any reason the underlying deposit arrangement pursuant to which the ADS and ADRs are issued is terminated or otherwise amended on, at or after the Effective Time.
No Limitation
Section 1.2 . Section 3.2 of the Merger Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Amendment to Section 3.2
Section 3.2 .
Surrender and Exchange of Shares
(a) Following the date of this Agreement and in any event not less than three business days prior to the Effective Time, Rowan Delaware shall select a bank or trust company to act as exchange agent in connection with the Merger (including any successor, the "") for the purpose of delivering or causing to be delivered to each holder of Rowan Delaware Common Stock ADS or ADRs evidencing one or more ADS and any cash that is payable pursuant to this .
Exchange Agent
Article III
(b) The Exchange Agent shall act as the agent for each holder of shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock to receive the ADS that such holder shall become entitled to receive with respect to such holder's shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock pursuant to this .
Article III
(c) Prior to the Effective Time, Rowan Mergeco or, after the Effective Time, the Surviving Corporation shall deposit or cause to be deposited with the Exchange Agent, from time to time, (i) such number of ADS and/or ADRs evidencing ADS, in such denominations as the Exchange Agent shall specify, as are deliverable pursuant to , and which, unless Rowan Mergeco or the Surviving Corporation shall otherwise determine, may be deposited with the Exchange Agent through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company (""), and (ii) the amount of cash that is payable pursuant to this , in each case in respect of shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock for which certificates representing shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock ("") are expected to be properly delivered to the Exchange Agent.
Section 3.1
DTC
Article III
Certificates
(d) Promptly after the Effective Time, the Surviving Corporation shall cause to be mailed to each stockholder who was a stockholder of record immediately prior to the Effective Time of shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock, a letter of transmittal, which shall specify that delivery shall be effected, and risk of loss and title to any Certificates held by such holder, if any, representing such shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock shall pass, only upon actual and proper delivery of the Certificates to the Exchange Agent.
(e) Each record holder of shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock shall be entitled to receive in exchange for such holder's shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock, upon (i)
 
surrender to the Exchange Agent of one or more Certificates, if any, (ii) delivery of a letter of transmittal, duly completed and validly executed in accordance with the instructions thereto, and (iii) delivery of such other documents as may be required pursuant to such instructions, the number of whole ADS into which such holder's shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock represented by such holder's properly surrendered shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock were converted in accordance with and any cash dividends or other distributions that such holder has the right to receive pursuant to this .
Section 3.1
Article III
(f) If delivery of the ADS is to be made to a person other than the person in whose name a surrendered Certificate, if any, is registered, or, in the case of uncertificated shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock (""), to a person other than the person in whose name such Uncertificated Shares are registered, it shall be a condition of delivery that the Certificate, if any, so surrendered shall be properly endorsed or shall be otherwise in proper form for transfer and that the person requesting such payment or delivery shall have (i) paid to the Exchange Agent any transfer and other taxes required by reason of the delivery of the ADS to a person other than the registered holder of the Certificate surrendered or (ii) shall have established to the satisfaction of the Exchange Agent that such tax either has been paid or is not applicable. Until a duly completed and validly executed letter of transmittal shall have been received in respect of a share or shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock and, if such a share or shares are represented by a Certificate, such Certificate shall be duly surrendered, after the Effective Time, each such share shall represent for all purposes only the right to receive upon such receipt of a letter of transmittal and surrender of a Certificate, if any, the applicable ADS as contemplated by this and any cash dividends or other distributions that such holder has the right to receive pursuant to this .
Uncertificated Shares
Article III
Article III
(g) At the Effective Time, the stock transfer books of Rowan Delaware shall be closed and thereafter there shall be no further registration of transfers of shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock that were outstanding prior to the Effective Time. After the Effective Time, Certificates presented to the Exchange Agent shall be cancelled and exchanged for the consideration provided for, and in accordance with the procedures set forth, in this .
Article III
(h) Any ADS to be delivered plus any cash dividend or other distribution that a former holder of shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock has the right to receive pursuant to this that remains unclaimed by any former holder of shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock after the Effective Time shall be held by the Exchange Agent (or a successor agent appointed by the Surviving Corporation). None of the Surviving Corporation, Rowan UK, the Exchange Agent or any of their affiliates shall be liable to any former holder of shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock for any securities properly delivered or any amount properly paid by the Exchange Agent or its nominee, as the case may be, to a public official pursuant to applicable abandoned property, escheat or similar law nine months after the Effective Time. If a letter of transmittal has not been received and a Certificate, if any, has not been surrendered in respect of a share or shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock as provided in this prior to two years after the Effective Time (or immediately prior to an earlier date on which the ADS in respect of such a share or shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock would otherwise escheat to or become the property of any governmental entity), any cash, share dividends and distributions otherwise payable in respect thereof shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, become the property of the Surviving Corporation, free and clear of all claims or interest of any person previously entitled thereto.
Article III
Article III
(i) Dividends or other distributions declared by Rowan UK after the Effective Time with respect to ADS deliverable with respect to the shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock shall accrue, but shall not be paid to the holder of any Rowan Delaware Common Stock until after a duly completed and validly executed letter of transmittal has been received and a Certificate, if any, has been surrendered in respect of a share or shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock, as provided in this . After such surrender, there shall be delivered and/or paid to the holder of the ADS delivered in exchange therefor, without interest, (i) at the time of surrender, the
Article III
 
dividends or other distributions payable with respect to those ADS with a record date on or after the date of the Effective Time and a payment date on or prior to the date of such surrender and not previously paid and (ii) at the appropriate payment date, the dividends or other distributions payable with respect to those ADS with a record date on or after the date of the Effective Time but with a payment date subsequent to surrender.
(j) No holder of Rowan Delaware Common Stock will be entitled to exercise voting or other stockholder rights with respect to ADS deliverable with respect to such Rowan Delaware Common Stock until after a duly completed and validly executed letter of transmittal has been received and a Certificate, if any, has been surrendered in respect of a share or shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock, as provided in this .
Article III
(k) In the event that any Certificate shall have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the holder's compliance with the replacement requirements established by the Exchange Agent, including, if necessary, the posting by the holder of a bond in customary amount as indemnity against any claim that may be made against it with respect to the Certificate, the Exchange Agent shall deliver in exchange for the lost, stolen or destroyed Certificate the applicable ADS deliverable in respect of the shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock represented by the Certificate pursuant to this .
Article III
(l) Each holder of shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock otherwise entitled to receive a fractional interest in an ADS pursuant to the terms of this Article III shall be entitled to receive, in accordance with the provisions of this , a cash payment (without interest) in lieu of such fractional interest in an ADS determined by multiplying the fractional interest in an ADS to which such holder would otherwise be entitled by the closing price for shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange ("") on the last trading day prior to the date on which the Effective Time occurs. Any cash payment in lieu of a fractional interest shall be made in U.S. dollars.
Section 3.2(l)
NYSE
(m) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the Surviving Corporation and the Exchange Agent shall be entitled to deduct and withhold from the consideration otherwise payable to any former holder of shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock pursuant to this Agreement any amounts as may be required to be deducted and withheld with respect to the making of such payment under the Code or under any provision of state, local or foreign tax law. To the extent that amounts are so withheld and paid over to the appropriate taxing authority, the Surviving Corporation shall be treated as though it withheld an appropriate amount of the type of consideration otherwise payable pursuant to this Agreement to any former holder of shares of Rowan Delaware Common Stock, sold this consideration for an amount of cash equal to the fair market value of the consideration at the time of the deemed sale and paid these cash proceeds to the appropriate taxing authority.
Section 2.1 . Neither this Amendment nor any of the rights, interests or obligations hereunder shall be assigned by either of the parties hereto (whether by operation of law or otherwise) without the prior written consent of the other party. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Amendment shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Amendment to the contrary, nothing in this Amendment, expressed or implied, is intended to confer on any person other than the parties hereto or their respective successors and assigns any rights, remedies, obligations or liabilities under or by reason of this Amendment.
Assignment; Binding Effect; Benefit
Section 2.2 . The Merger Agreement (including this Amendment) and any documents delivered by the parties in connection herewith constitute the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior agreements and understandings between the parties with respect thereto.
Entire Agreement
 
Section 2.3 . This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware without regard to its rules of conflict of laws that would apply any other law.
Governing Law
Section 2.4 . This Amendment may be executed by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument. Each counterpart may consist of a number of copies hereof, each signed by less than all, but together signed by both of the parties hereto.
Counterparts
Section 2.5 . Headings of the Articles and Sections of this Amendment are for the convenience of the parties only and shall be given no substantive or interpretative effect whatsoever.
Headings
Section 2.6 . If any provision of this Amendment (or of the Merger Agreement, as amended by this Amendment) is determined by any court or arbitrator of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such provision will be enforced to the maximum extent possible given the intent of the parties hereto. If such clause or provision cannot be so enforced, such provision shall be stricken from the Merger Agreement and the remainder of the Merger Agreement shall be enforced as if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable clause or provision had (to the extent not enforceable) never been contained in the Merger Agreement.
Severability
 
The parties have executed and delivered this Amendment as of the date indicated in the first sentence of this Amendment.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
HOUSTON, TEXAS  Rowan Companies, Inc. (NYSE: RDC) reminds its stockholders that the special meeting to approve the previously announced plan to change Rowan's corporate structure will be held on April 16, 2012. The change in corporate structure would result in the Company becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of a new U.K. parent holding company to be named "Rowan Companies plc" ("Rowan UK").
The Board of Directors has previously unanimously approved the change as it believes the move will enhance stockholder value by improving Rowan's long-term competitive position as a global contract driller. Under the proposed plan, which must be approved by our stockholders at the April 16 meeting, Rowan's legal domicile would effectively change from Delaware to the United Kingdom, where it already has substantial and growing operations.
The Company previously disclosed in its proxy statement that it might pursue a Class A Share structure instead of an American depositary share ("ADS") structure, and confirms today that it is actively pursuing such a Class A Share structure. If successful in these efforts, Class A Shares of Rowan UK would ultimately be delivered to holders of our common stock in conjunction with the closing of the transaction.
In pursuing the Class A Share structure, the Company is currently considering ways of making the Class A Shares eligible for the depository and book-entry transfer services of The Depository Trust Company, thereby making such shares eligible for delivery to our stockholders and listing on the NYSE in lieu of ADS following closing of the underlying merger transaction. The Company would amend its listing application with the NYSE in order to list the Class A Shares. If the Class A Share structure is implemented, Rowan UK shareholders would be able to readily hold and trade Class A Shares instead of ADS and, as a result, the Company would expect to maintain its participation in the S&P 500 Index. Should the Company's stockholders approve the merger on April 16, we expect the merger would not take place until May in order to allow us to finalize the Class A Share structure, obtain the necessary approvals and accommodate the listing on the NYSE.
Although the Company is pursuing a Class A Share structure, there can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in such efforts and may ultimately close under an ADS structure. In such an event, the Company may still convert to a Class A Share structure at some point after the closing.
Rowan Companies, Inc. is a major provider of global offshore contract drilling services with a leading position in high-specification jack-up rigs. The Company's fleet of 31 jack-up rigs is located worldwide, including the Middle East, the North Sea, Trinidad, Southeast Asia and the Gulf of Mexico. Rowan will enter the ultra-deepwater market with three high-specification drillships expected to be delivered starting in late 2013. Rowan's stock is traded on the NYSE under the symbol "RDC". For more information on Rowan, please visit .
www.rowancompanies.com
This press release contains forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, without limitation, statements about the proposed change in corporate structure as well as statements as to the expectations, beliefs and future expected financial performance of the Company that are based on current expectations and are subject to certain risks, trends and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected by the Company. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include oil and natural gas prices, the level of offshore expenditures by energy companies, energy demand, the general economy, including inflation, weather conditions in the Company's principal operating areas and environmental and other laws and regulations, including changes in tax laws, whether our stockholders approve the merger (and related transactions), our ability to implement a Class A Share capital structure and whether we achieve the benefits we expect from the proposed change in our corporate structure. Other relevant factors have been and will be disclosed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Rowan UK has filed with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4, which contains a definitive proxy statement/prospectus in connection with the proposed merger, and each of Rowan and Rowan UK may be filing other relevant materials with the SEC in connection with the transaction. Stockholders and investors may obtain these documents, as well as other filings containing information about Rowan and Rowan UK, for free at the SEC's website, , and Rowan's website, , under the "Investor Relations" heading by accessing the "SEC filings" link.
The Company urges its stockholders  including participants in its equity based incentive compensation plans  and investors to read carefully the proxy statement/prospectus (and any other document that Rowan or Rowan UK subsequently files with the SEC) before making any voting or investment decision about the proposed merger, because they contain important information about Rowan, Rowan UK and the proposed merger and related transactions.
www.sec.gov
www.rowancompanies.com
Rowan, Rowan UK and their directors and executive officers and certain other members of management and employees, as well as Innisfree M&A Incorporated (Rowan's proxy solicitor), may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed change in corporate structure. Other information regarding the participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, is contained in the definitive proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials filed with the SEC. You can obtain free copies of the documents by accessing the SEC's and our website as described above.
Information about the directors and executive officers of Rowan and their ownership in Rowan is included in the registration statement filed with the SEC and the documents and information incorporated by reference therein.
Contact:
Suzanne M. Spera
Director of Investor Relations
(713) 960-7517
sspera@rowancompanies.com
 


