FILE:RDC/RDC-8K-20121031104734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): October 31, 2012
 
Rowan Companies plc
 
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
  
   
 
   
 
  
   
     
        
 
     
   
   
   
   
  
     
   
  
 
(713) 621-7800
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240-14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240-13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02:
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01:
 
On October 31, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the posting of its Monthly Fleet Status Report and providing certain highlights. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2. The Monthly Fleet Status Report as of October 31, 2012 is attached as Exhibit 99.3. The Monthly Fleet Status Report is also available on our website at .
www.rowancompanies.com
 
 
The information furnished in Items 2.02 and 7.01 and in Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or incorporated by reference in any of the Companys filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
   
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: October 31, 2012
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
  
  
 
 

 
 
Rowan Reports Third Quarter 2012 Operating Results
 
HOUSTON, Oct. 31, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- For the three months ended September 30, 2012, Rowan Companies plc (Rowan or the Company) (NYSE: RDC) generated net income from continuing operations of $26.4 million or $0.21 per share, compared to $31.4 million or $0.25 per share in the third quarter of 2011. 
 
Net income from continuing operations during the third quarter of 2012 included $28.1 million of non-recurring or unusual items, or $0.18 per share after tax, including costs associated with early redemption of MARAD debt, repairs to the EXL I due to a tanker collision, equity compensation charges related to a retiring executive, settlement costs related to the Company's frozen manufacturing pension plan and certain corporate redomestication costs, net of gains on asset disposals.  Excluding such items, net income from continuing operations was $48.8 million or $0.39 per share during the third quarter of 2012.
 
The third quarter results also reflect additional tax expense related to an increase in the Company's full year 2012 estimated tax rate primarily due to adjustments related to the completion of its 2011 U.S. federal tax return and changes to projected foreign and domestic earnings.  The full-year effective tax rate for continuing operations is now projected to be 2%, up from the 6% credit projected at the end of the second quarter, which resulted in increased tax expense in the third quarter of $10.6 million, or $0.09 per share.
 
Net income totaled $27.6 million or $0.22 per share in the third quarter of 2012, compared to $193.8 million or $1.53 per share in the third quarter of 2011, as the prior year quarter included income from discontinued manufacturing and land drilling operations of $162.4 million or $1.28 per share, including the after-tax gain on the sale of land drilling operations of $155.0 million.
 
Rowan's revenues were $353.9 million in the third quarter of 2012, up 51% over the prior-year quarter due primarily to incremental activity from fleet additions and higher utilization and day rates for existing rigs between periods.  The Company's operating income was $59.3 million in the third quarter of 2012, up 86% over the prior-year quarter.
 
Matt Ralls, President and Chief Executive Officer, commented, While our operating revenues and earnings for the third quarter were generally in line with analysts' expectations, a number of non-recurring or unusual items negatively impacted our net income.  As we look ahead to coming quarters, we see several positive factors.  We have nine jack-ups in our active fleet with contract expirations in the next three quarters, and we expect all of those rigs to move to contracts at higher day rates.  We also expect our days off rate due to shipyard, transit and inspection time to trend lower in the fourth quarter of this year and in 2013.  Finally, for our three uncontracted remaining ultra-deepwater drillships, we continue to have serious discussions with multiple customers for long term contracts at day rates that are consistent with those recently announced for other high-end drillships.
 
 
2800 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 5450, Houston, Texas 77056
Tel: (713) 621-7800 Fax: (713) 960-7509
 
 
 
 
Rowan will conduct its earnings conference call on Wednesday, October 31, 2012, at 10:00 a.m. Central Daylight Time.  Interested parties are invited to listen to the call by telephone or over the Internet.  Individuals who wish to participate on the conference call by telephone can dial (877) 869-3847, or internationally (201) 689-8261.  You should dial-in approximately five to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time.  Alternatively, to access the online simulcast and rebroadcast of the conference call, please visit Rowan's website at www.rowancompanies.com.  You should connect to our website at least 15 minutes prior to the conference call to register, download and install any necessary software.
 
Rowan Companies plc is a major provider of international and domestic contract drilling services with a leading position in high-specification jack-up rigs.  The Company's fleet of 31 jack-up rigs is located worldwide, including the Middle East, the North Sea, Trinidad, Southeast Asia and the Gulf of Mexico.  Rowan will enter the ultra-deepwater market with four high-specification drillships expected to be delivered starting in late 2013.  The Company's Class A Ordinary Shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol RDC. For more information on the Company, please visit www.rowancompanies.com.
 
Statements herein that are not historical facts are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, without limitation, statements as to the expectations, beliefs and future expected business, financial performance and prospects of the Company. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and are subject to certain risks, assumptions, trends and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include oil and natural gas prices, the level of offshore expenditures by energy companies, variations in energy demand, changes in day rates, cancellation by our customers of drilling contracts or letter agreements or letters of intent for drilling contracts or the exercise of early termination provisions, risks associated with fixed cost drilling operations, cost overruns or delays on shipyard repair or transportation of rigs, maintenance and repair costs, costs or delays for conversion or upgrade projects, operating hazards and equipment failure, risks of collision and damage, casualty losses and limitations on insurance coverage, customer credit and risk of customer bankruptcy, conditions in the general economy and energy industry, weather conditions and severe weather in the Companys operating areas, increasing complexity and costs of compliance with environmental and other laws and regulations, changes in tax laws and interpretations by taxing authorities, civil unrest and instability, terrorism and hostilities in our areas of operations that may result in loss or seizure of assets, the outcome of disputes and legal proceedings, effects of the change in our corporate structure, and other risks disclosed in the Companys filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date hereof, and the Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, except as required by law. 
 
Contact:
Suzanne M. Spera
Director of Investor Relations
(713) 960-7517
sspera@rowancompanies.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ROWAN  COMPANIES  plc
SUPPLEMENTAL  OPERATING  INFORMATION
Unaudited
 
 
 
 

 
 
Rowan Provides Fleet Contract Status Update
 
 
HOUSTON, TEXAS -- Rowan Companies plc (Rowan or the Company) (NYSE: RDC) announced today that its monthly report of drilling rig status and contract information has been updated as of October 31, 2012. The report titled Monthly Fleet Status Report, can be found on the Companys website www.rowancompanies.com on the Home page.
 
Notable events in the current report include:
 
New Contracts/Extensions
 
Planned Off Rate Days
 
 
The Company will not realize any day rate revenue during these periods of shipyard downtime, and crew costs will be capitalized.
 
 
This summary is provided as a courtesy and is not intended to replace a detailed review of the Monthly Fleet Status Report. While we have attempted to include items we believe are significant, we encourage you to review the Monthly Fleet Status Report in detail.
 
 
Rowan Companies plc is a major provider of international and domestic contract drilling services with a leading position in high-specification jack-up rigs.  The Companys fleet of 31 jack-up rigs is located worldwide, including the Middle East, the North Sea, Trinidad, Southeast Asia and the Gulf of Mexico.  Rowan will enter the ultra-deepwater market with four high-specification drillships expected to be delivered starting in late 2013.  The Companys Class A Ordinary Shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "RDC". For more information on the Company, please visit .
www.rowancompanies.com
 
 
2800 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 5450, Houston, Texas 77056
Tel: (713) 621-7800
 
 
 
 
Statements herein that are not historical facts are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, without limitation, statements as to the expectations, beliefs and future expected business, financial performance and prospects of the Company. These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and are subject to certain risks, assumptions, trends and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include oil and natural gas prices, the level of offshore expenditures by energy companies, variations in energy demand, changes in day rates, cancellation by our customers of drilling contracts or letter agreements or letters of intent for drilling contracts or the exercise of early termination provisions, risks associated with fixed cost drilling operations, cost overruns or delays on shipyard repair or transportation of rigs, maintenance and repair costs, costs or delays for conversion or upgrade projects, operating hazards and equipment failure, risks of collision and damage, casualty losses and limitations on insurance coverage, customer credit and risk of customer bankruptcy, conditions in the general economy and energy industry, weather conditions and severe weather in the Companys operating areas, increasing complexity and costs of compliance with environmental and other laws and regulations, changes in tax laws and interpretations by taxing authorities, civil unrest and instability, terrorism and hostilities in our areas of operations that may result in loss or seizure of assets, the outcome of disputes and legal proceedings, effects of the change in our corporate structure, and other risks disclosed in the Companys filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date hereof, and the Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, except as required by law.
 
Contact:
Suzanne M. Spera
Director of Investor Relations
(713) 960-7517
sspera@rowancompanies.com
 
 

 
 
 
 
(1) Rig Class denotes Keppel unit design constructed at Keppel FELS shipyard in Singapore for N-Class units. LeTourneau, Inc. hull number. 200-C is a Gorilla class unit designed for extreme hostile environment capability. 219-C is a Super Gorilla class unit, an enhanced version of the Gorilla class, and 224-C is a Super Gorilla XL design. 225-C is a Tarzan Class unit. 240-C is LeTourneau's latest jack-up design. Rowan EXL is an enhanced version of the Super 116E class. (2) Unless otherwise indicated, all day rates include estimated amortization of contract mobilization/modification revenues. (3) Estimated contract durations reflect either stated drilling periods or expected time required for the contracted well or wells.
(4) The estimated planned off rate represents those days where a rig will not be available to earn any revenue and includes operational downtime for historical periods and excludes mechanical downtime for forecasted periods.
                                                           
ROWAN HEREBY ADVISES THAT THE TABLE SET FORTH ABOVE MAY CONTAIN INACCURATE, INCOMPLETE AND/OR INCORRECT INFORMATION AND IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE AT ANY TIME.  THE INFORMATION SHOULD NOT BE RELIED UPON FOR ANY PURPOSE, AND ROWAN HEREBY DISCLAIMS ANY LIABILITY RELATING TO THE USE OF THE INFORMATION SET FORTH ABOVE.
                                                           
Statements herein that are not historical facts are forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including, without limitation, statements as to the expectations, beliefs and future expected business, financial performance and prospects of the Company.  These forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and are subject to certain risks, assumptions, trends and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by the forward-looking statements.  Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include oil and natural gas prices, the level of offshore expenditures by energy companies, variations in energy demand, changes in day rates, cancellation by our customers of drilling contracts or letter agreements or letters of intent for drilling contracts or the exercise of early termination provisions, risks associated with fixed cost drilling operations, cost overruns or delays on shipyard repair or transportation of rigs, maintenance and repair costs, costs or delays for conversion or upgrade projects, operating hazards and equipment failure, risks of collision and damage, casualty losses and limitations on insurance coverage, customer credit and risk of customer bankruptcy,  conditions in the general economy and energy industry, weather conditions and severe weather in the Companys operating areas, increasing complexity and costs of compliance with environmental and other laws and regulations, changes in tax laws and interpretations by taxing authorities, civil unrest and instability, terrorism and hostilities in our areas of operations that may result in loss or seizure of assets, the outcome of disputes and legal proceedings, effects of the change in our corporate structure, and other risks disclosed in the Companys filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date hereof, and the Company expressly disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, except as required by law. 
 
  


