FILE:RDC/RDC-8K-20120516093831.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Information
Rowan Companies plc (the Company) is filing this Current Report on Form 8-K in connection with the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) of a shelf registration statement relating to securities that may be offered from time to time, by the Company or Rowan Companies, Inc. (Rowan Delaware), for the purpose of adding Note 10 to Rowan Delawares unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of Rowan Delawares Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, filed with the SEC on May 2, 2012 (the Quarterly Report).
The Company is providing the additional note to the financial statements to provide condensed consolidating financial information in accordance with Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X because the debt securities offered by the Company or Rowan Delaware may be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Company or certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries, including Rowan Delaware.  To reflect the addition of Note 10 to the financial statements, Part I, Item 1 of the Quarterly Report is being amended in its entirety and is attached as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated by reference.
Because this Current Report is being filed only for the purpose described above and only affects the Item specified above, the other information contained in the Quarterly Report remains unchanged.  No attempt has been made in this Current Report nor Exhibit 99, to modify or update disclosures in the Quarterly Report, except with respect to the addition of Note 10 described above.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 Rowan Companies plc
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 By: __
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
/s/ William H. Wells_____________
 William H. Wells
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 Senior Vice President  CFO and Treasurer
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 (Principal Financial Officer)
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
Dated: May 16, 2012
 
3
 

Exhibit 99
Item 1.  Financial Statements
1
 
2
 
3
 
4
 
5
 
6
 
Note 1  Nature of Operations and Basis of Presentation
Rowan Companies, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (hereafter referred to as Rowan or the Company) is a major provider of international and domestic offshore oil and gas contract drilling services and provides its services utilizing a fleet of 31 self-elevating mobile offshore jack-up drilling units.  The Companys primary focus is on high-specification and premium jack-up rigs, which its customers use for exploratory and development drilling and, in certain areas, well workover operations.  Additionally, the Company has three ultra-deepwater drillships under construction, the first of which is scheduled for delivery in late 2013.
 
Rowan conducts offshore drilling operations in various markets throughout the world including the North Sea, Middle East, Southeast Asia and U.S. Gulf of Mexico, among others.
 
The financial statements included in this Form 10-Q are presented in U.S. dollars and include the accounts of Rowan Companies, Inc. and its subsidiaries, all of which are wholly owned.  Intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
 
The financial statements included in this Form 10-Q have been prepared without audit in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Certain information and notes have been condensed or omitted as permitted by those rules and regulations.  Rowan believes the accompanying financial statements contain all adjustments, which are of a normal recurring nature unless otherwise noted, necessary for a fair statement of the results for the interim periods presented.  Rowans results of operations and cash flows for the interim periods are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for the full year.  The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.
 
In June and September 2011, the Company completed the sales of its manufacturing subsidiary, LeTourneau Technologies, Inc (LeTourneau) and its land drilling operations, respectively.  Manufacturing operations were previously reported as the Drilling Products and Systems and the Mining, Forestry and Steel Products segments, and land drilling operations were previously reported as a component of the Drilling Services segment.  The Company does not currently segment its continuing offshore drilling business for reporting purposes.  Results of manufacturing and land drilling operations have been reclassified to discontinued operations for all periods presented (see Note 2, Discontinued Operations).  As permitted under GAAP, the Company has chosen not to separately disclose cash flows pertaining to discontinued operations in the statement of cash flows.
 
On April 16, 2012, the Companys stockholders approved a merger agreement and other proposals related to a plan to reorganize the corporate structure of the Company (see Note 9, Subsequent Events).
 
 
7
 
Note 2  Discontinued Operations
The following table sets forth the components of Discontinued operations, net of tax (in thousands):
 
 
 
In connection with the sale of LeTourneau, the Company took ownership of a land rig that LeTourneau was constructing on behalf of a customer, plus a related customer deposit.  The Company is holding the asset for sale.  The asset and related deposit are classified as other assets and deferred revenues, respectively, in the table of assets and liabilities of discontinued operations, which follows (in thousands):
 
 
Note 3  Earnings Per Share
A reconciliation of basic and diluted shares follows (in thousands):
 
 
There were no adjustments to net income required for purposes of computing diluted earnings per share.
 
8
 
 
 
Stock options and appreciation rights granted under share-based compensation plans are antidilutive and excluded from the diluted earnings per share when their exercise or strike price exceeds the average stock market price during the period.  The following table sets forth antidilutive shares excluded from diluted earnings per share.  Such securities could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future (in thousands):
 
Note 4  Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits
Rowan sponsors defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of its employees, and provides health care and life insurance benefits upon retirement for certain employees.
 
Net periodic pension cost recognized included the following components (in thousands):
 
 
 
Other postretirement benefit cost recognized included the following components (in thousands):
 
 
During the three months ended March 31, 2012, Rowan contributed $23.3 million to its pension and other postretirement benefit plans and expects to make additional contributions to such plans totaling approximately $30.9 million during the remainder of 2012.
9
 
 
 
Under the terms of the sales of the Companys manufacturing and land drilling operations, the Company retained pension assets and liabilities related to employees of the former operations.  As a result, the Company may be required to make additional contributions to the plan in excess of currently estimated amounts.  Management does not believe that any such additional contributions will have a material effect on the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Note 5  Long-term Debt
In February 2012, the Company requested the consent of the U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration (MarAd) with respect to the Companys planned redomestication (See Note 9).  MarAd had previously guaranteed certain of the Companys debt securities under the Title XI Federal Ship Financing Program, of which the principal amount outstanding was $226.1 million at March 31, 2012.  In April 2012, MarAd denied the Companys request for the continuation of the Governments loan guarantees after closing of the redomestication.  As a result, the Company has reclassified all principal amounts due under the notes to current as of March 31, 2012.  As required under the make-whole provisions of the indenture, the Company deposited with the bond trustee $10.6 million in cash, which was classified as restricted cash at March 31, 2012.  Total cash outlay for the retirement of the notes, which is expected to occur in the second and third quarters of 2012, is estimated to be $250.5 million, including principal, make-whole premiums and accrued interest.
 
Note 6  Commitments and Contingent Liabilities
 
The following table presents the status of the Companys rig construction program as of March 31, 2012.  Amounts include capitalized interest and an estimate for project contingencies (in millions):
 
 
 
Rowan periodically employs letters of credit or other bank-issued guarantees in the normal course of its businesses, and had outstanding letters of credit of approximately $31.2 million at March 31, 2012.
 
On March 25, 2012, a gas leak occurred on a platform operated by Total E&P UK Limited (Total), where the was working.  The platform is in the Elgin Field located off the coast of Aberdeen, Scotland.  All Company, Total and third-party personnel were safely evacuated from the platform and rig without incident. The Company is working to support Total in its efforts to bring the leak under control including potentially repositioning the to drill the second of two relief wells.  The Company does not believe the incident or its resolution will materially impact the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Rowan Viking
Rowan Gorilla V
 
In 2009, the Company recognized a $25.4 million tax benefit as a result of applying the facts of a third-party tax case to the Companys situation.  That case provided a more favorable tax treatment for certain foreign contracts entered into in prior years.  In 2011, the IRS issued an assessment contesting our claim.  The Company plans to vigorously defend its position and continues to believe it is more likely than not that the Company will prevail.
 
Rowan is involved in various legal proceedings incidental to its businesses and is vigorously defending its position in all such matters. The Company believes that there are no known contingencies, claims or lawsuits that could have a material effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
10
 
Note 7  Stock-Based Compensation
On March 7, 2012, the Company granted restricted stock and stock appreciation rights with a fair value aggregating $26.4 million.  The awards vest in one-third annual increments over a three-year service period.  The aggregate grant date fair value, net of estimated forfeitures, was $24.9 million, which will be amortized on a straight-line basis over three years from the grant date.
 
Additionally, on March 7, 2012, the Company granted performance units (PUs) with a grant-date fair value of $3.2 million.  The amount ultimately payable will depend on the Companys total shareholder return (TSR) ranking compared to a group of peer companies over a maximum three-year performance period and could range from zero to $7.7 million.  The awards cliff vest at the end of three years and may be settled in cash or shares of Rowan stock.  The Company has accounted for the award as a liability. Compensation will be recognized on a straight-line basis over three years from the grant date and will be remeasured to fair value at each report date.
 
At March 31, 2012, the Company had approximately $44.8 million of estimated unrecognized future stock-based compensation, which is expected to be recognized as compensation expense over a remaining weighted-average period of 2.4 years.
Note 8  Other Financial Statement Disclosures
 The carrying amounts of the Companys cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and trade payables approximated their fair values due to their short maturities.  As of March 31, 2012, the fair values of the Companys debt, which had an aggregate carrying value of $1.122 billion, approximated $1.268 billion.  Fair values of the Companys debt were estimated based on quoted market prices for the same or similar issues or on the current rates offered to the Company for debt of the same remaining maturities (Level 2 inputs in the fair value hierarchy).
Fair Values of Financial Instruments
 
 Accrued capital expenditures, which are excluded from capital expenditures in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows until settlement, totaled $44.3 million and $28.1 million at March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  Interest capitalized in connection with rig construction projects totaled $6.7 million and $13.6 million in the first quarters of 2012 and 2011, respectively.
Supplemental Cash Flow Information
 
Historically, the Company has conducted its foreign operations through its U.S. subsidiaries, which resulted in income tax at or near the U.S. statutory rate of 35%.  In late 2009, the Company began operating many of its foreign-based rigs through its international subsidiaries, and has asserted that such earnings are permanently invested abroad.  The Company does not provide deferred income taxes on undistributed foreign earnings considered to be permanently invested abroad.
Income Taxes 
 
In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles for interim reporting, the Company estimates its full-year effective tax rate and applies this rate to its year-to-date pretax income.  In addition, the Company separately calculates the tax impact of unusual items, if any.  For the three months ended March 31, 2012, the Companys consolidated effective tax rates applicable to income from continuing operations was a benefit of less than 1%, as compared to a provision of 8.8% for the first quarter of 2011.  The benefit in 2012 was principally the result of the current period amortization of tax benefit related to outbounding certain rigs into offshore subsidiaries in prior years, the 2011 sales of the Companys manufacturing and land drilling operations, whose earnings were subject to a 35% U.S. statutory rate, and a greater proportion of income expected to be earned in lower-tax foreign jurisdictions in 2012 as compared to 2011.
 
Material charges for the first quarter of 2012 included a $2.9 million impairment charge for the carrying value of steel, which was held for sale and classified in prepaid expenses and other current assets at March 31, 2012, to reflect the price to be received by the Company under a sale contract and $1.7 million of legal and consulting fees incurred in connection with the Companys redomestication (see Note 9).
Material Charges and Other Operating Expenses 
 
11
 
Note 9  Subsequent Events
On April 16, 2012, the Companys stockholders approved an agreement and plan of merger and reorganization (the redomestication) pursuant to which the Company would become a wholly owned subsidiary of a newly formed parent holding company to be named Rowan Companies plc, a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales.  In connection with the redomestication, each issued and outstanding share of common stock of Rowan Companies, Inc. would be converted into the right to receive one Class A ordinary share, par value U.S. $0.125 per share, of Rowan Companies plc.  The redomestication is expected to become effective in May 2012, and will be accounted for as an internal reorganization of entities under common control; therefore, the carrying values of assets and liabilities of the merged entities will be carried forward without adjustment.
 
Upon completion of the redomestication, the Company will remain subject to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission reporting requirements, the mandates of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the applicable corporate governance rules of the NYSE.  The Company will continue to report its consolidated financial results in U.S. dollars and in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and also must comply with any additional reporting requirements of English law.
 
On May 2, 2012, as the was being towed toward a shipyard in south Texas in preparation for its mobilization to Indonesia, a passing ship lost power and collided with the rig.  All personnel aboard the rig were unharmed, but the port side of the rig sustained substantial damage and will require repairs prior to its mobilization to Indonesia.  The Company is assessing the damage and any potential financial impact.
EXL I
 
Note 10  Guarantee of Registered Securities
As previously reported, on May 4, 2012 (the Effective Date), Rowan Companies plc, a public limited company organized under English law ("Rowan UK"), became the successor issuer to Rowan Companies, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Rowan Delaware"), following the completion of the merger between Rowan Delaware and one of its subsidiaries pursuant to an agreement and plan of merger and reorganization dated February 27, 2012, as amended.  As a result of the merger, Rowan UK became the parent company of the Rowan group of companies and our place of incorporation was effectively changed from Delaware to the United Kingdom.  The transactions effecting these changes are collectively referred to as the "Redomestication."
On the Effective Date, Rowan UK and Rowan Delaware entered into a supplemental indenture to the indenture dated as of July 21, 2009, as amended and supplemented, among Rowan UK, Rowan Delaware and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, providing for, among other things, the unconditional and irrevocable guarantee by Rowan UK of the prompt payment, when due, of any amount owed to the holders of Rowan Delaware's 5% Senior Notes due 2017 and 7.875% Senior Notes due 2019.
 
The following condensed consolidating financial information is being provided in accordance with Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X in connection with the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission of a shelf registration statement relating to securities that may be offered from time to time, by Rowan UK or Rowan Delaware.  The debt securities offered by Rowan UK or Rowan Delaware may be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by Rowan UK or certain of its wholly owned subsidiaries, including Rowan Delaware.  
 
 
12
 
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
 
17
 
 
 
 
18
 
 
 
 
19
 
 
 








