FILE:FSLR/FSLR-8K-20061222142653.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
     On December 19, 2006, First Solar, Inc. ("First Solar") announced the appointment of Paul H. Stebbins, chairman and chief executive officer of World Fuel Services Corporation ("World Fuel"), to the company's board of directors. Mr. Stebbins' appointment was effective immediately.
     Mr. Stebbins has served as the chairman of World Fuel since July 2002 and has served as a director of World Fuel since June 1995. Between July 2000 and 2002, Mr. Stebbins also served as president and chief operating officer of World Fuel. In 1985, Mr. Stebbins co-founded Trans-Tec Services, a global marine fuel service company acquired by World Fuel in 1995.
     Mr. Stebbins has also been appointed to the audit committee and the compensation committee of the board of directors.
     There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Stebbins and any other person pursuant to which he was selected to become a member of the board, nor are there any transactions between the First Solar and Mr. Stebbins that are reportable under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
     A copy of the press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Stebbins as a member of the board is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 8.01. Other Events
     On December 18, 2006, First Solar announced that it had exercised options to increase sales volumes and extend contract terms under each of its six long-term supply contracts.
     A copy of the press release announcing the exercise of the options under the long-term supply contracts is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
For media inquiries, contact: Paula Vaughnn, First Solar, Inc. (602) 414-9322 or pvaughnn@firstsolar.com
Justine Troy, Edelman (212) 704-8280 or jtroy@ar-edelman.com
First Solar, Inc. (Nasdaq: FSLR) the largest thin film solar module manufacturer in the world, today announced the appointment of Paul H. Stebbins, chairman and chief executive officer of World Fuel Services Corporation, to the company's board of directors. Mr. Stebbins' appointment is effective immediately.
PHOENIX, Ariz.  Dec. 19, 2006 
     Paul H. Stebbins has served as the chairman of World Fuel since July 2002 and has served as a director of World Fuel since June 1995. Between July 2000 and 2002, Mr. Stebbins also served as president and chief operating officer of World Fuel. In 1985, Mr. Stebbins co-founded Trans-Tec Services, a global marine fuel service company acquired by World Fuel in 1995.
About First Solar
     First Solar, Inc. [NASDAQ: FSLR] manufactures solar modules with an advanced thin film semiconductor process that significantly lowers solar electricity costs. By enabling clean renewable electricity at affordable prices, First Solar provides an economic alternative to peak conventional electricity and the related fossil fuel dependence, greenhouse gas emissions and peak time grid constraints.
For First Solar Investors
     This release contains forward-looking statements which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The forward-looking statements in this release do not constitute guarantees of future performance. Those statements involve a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including risks associated with the company's business involving the company's products, their development and distribution, economic and competitive factors and the company's key strategic relationships and other risks detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. First Solar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release or with respect to the announcements described herein.

 
Exhibit 99.2
For media inquiries, contact: Paula Vaughnn, First Solar, Inc. (602) 414-9322 or pvaughnn@firstsolar.com
Justine Troy, Edelman (212) 704-8280 or jtroy@ar-edelman.com
First Solar, Inc. (Nasdaq: FSLR) today announced that the Company has exercised options to increase sales volumes and extend contract terms under each of its six long-term supply contracts. By exercising the options, First Solar has increased the sales volumes under the contracts to an aggregate of 1,270MW with 1,240MW remaining to be shipped between 2007 and 2012.
PHOENIX, Ariz.  Dec. 18, 2006 
About First Solar
First Solar, Inc. [NASDAQ: FSLR] manufactures solar modules with an advanced thin film semiconductor process that significantly lowers solar electricity costs. By enabling clean renewable electricity at affordable prices, First Solar provides an economic alternative to peak conventional electricity and the related fossil fuel dependence, greenhouse gas emissions and peak time grid constraints.
For First Solar Investors
This release contains forward-looking statements which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The forward-looking statements in this release do not constitute guarantees of future performance. Those statements involve a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including risks associated with the company's business involving the company's products, their development and distribution, economic and competitive factors and the company's key strategic relationships and other risks detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. First Solar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release or with respect to the announcements described herein.


