FILE:FSLR/FSLR-8K-20070301172832.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors;           Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensation Arrangements of           Certain Officers.
     On March 1, 2007, First Solar, Inc. ("First Solar") announced the appointment of Bruce Sohn (45) as President of First Solar.
     Mr. Sohn was formerly a senior executive at Intel Corporation. During his 24 years at Intel, Mr. Sohn played a leadership role in developing and manufacturing leading-edge semiconductor technology. He served as an integral part of the start-up team at five fabs, acted as program manager for Intel's conversion to 300mm wafers and managed two of Intel's largest fabs. Mr. Sohn is a Materials Science and Engineering graduate from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, a senior member of the IEEE and a certified Jonah. He has been a guest lecturer at MIT, Stanford and other universities. Mr. Sohn was elected a director of First Solar in July 2003.
     Mr. Sohn will report to First Solar's Chief Executive Officer and will receive an annual base salary of $350,000 (subject to annual review) and standard First Solar benefits, including four weeks of vacation per year. Mr. Sohn is also eligible to receive a discretionary annual bonus of up to 70% of his annual base salary. In connection with the commencement of his employment, Mr. Sohn will receive a sign-on payment of First Solar common stock with an aggregate fair market value of $50,000 and a separate cash payment of $60,000 to defray moving expenses. In addition, upon or shortly after the commencement of his employment, First Solar will grant Mr. Sohn options to purchase 150,000 shares of common stock, exercisable at fair market value on the date of grant as determined by the Board. The options will vest with respect to 20 percent of the underlying shares each year on the anniversary of the effective grant date, commencing on the first anniversary of the effective grant date. The options will be subject to the additional terms of grant approved by the Board and the First Solar Omnibus Equity Incentive Equity Plan currently in effect. First Solar will also provide Mr. Sohn with a comprehensive relocation package that covers expenses both on the sale of his current home and purchase of his future home in connection with his new location in Phoenix, Arizona, and for approximately 6 to 9 months, will reimburse Mr. Sohn for business travel expenses for travel between Mr. Sohn's current home in Albuquerque, New Mexico and Phoenix.
     Mr. Sohn's employment is anticipated to commence on March 12, 2007, and continue for an indefinite period of time. If First Solar terminates Mr. Sohn's employment without cause, First Solar will, for a period of 24 months following such termination, continue to pay Mr. Sohn monthly severance payments equal to Mr. Sohn's base pay in effect at the time of termination, reduced by any compensation Mr. Sohn earns from other sources. Mr. Sohn is also subject to a confidentiality agreement and a non-competition and non-solicitation agreement, which provides that Mr. Sohn will not compete with First Solar for 24 months after termination of his employment. It is also anticipated that Mr. Sohn will enter into the Company's executive retention agreement applicable to certain senior executives following his commencement of employment.
 
     A copy of the press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Sohn as President is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits.
99.1     Press Release of First Solar issued on March 1, 2007.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
First Solar Appoints Bruce Sohn as President
PHOENIX, March 1, 2007 (PrimeNewswire via COMTEX News Network)  First Solar, Inc. (Nasdaq:FSLR) announced today that Bruce Sohn has joined the Company as President. Mr. Sohn was formerly a senior executive at Intel Corporation and has served on the Board of Directors of First Solar since 2003. He will report to Mike Ahearn, Chief Executive Officer of First Solar.
"Bruce's extensive experience managing large organizations, growing operations and replicating factories will significantly strengthen our team," said Michael Ahearn, Chief Executive Officer. "We have benefited greatly from Bruce's advice and guidance as a board member and we are honored that he has accepted our offer to increase his role by joining First Solar."
During his 24 years at Intel, Mr. Sohn played a leadership role in developing and manufacturing leading-edge semiconductor technology. He served as an integral part of the start-up team at five fabs, acted as program manager for Intel's conversion to 300mm wafers, and managed two of Intel's largest fabs. Mr. Sohn is a Materials Science and Engineering graduate from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, a senior member of the IEEE and a certified Jonah. He has been a guest lecturer at MIT, Stanford and other universities.
About First Solar
First Solar, Inc. (Nasdaq:FSLR) manufactures solar modules with an advanced thin film semiconductor process that significantly lowers solar electricity costs. By enabling clean renewable electricity at affordable prices, First Solar provides an economic alternative to peak conventional electricity and the related fossil fuel dependence, greenhouse gas emissions and peak time grid constraints.
The First Solar, Inc. logo is available at
http://www.primezone.com/newsroom/prs/?pkgid=3052
For First Solar Investors
This release contains forward-looking statements which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The forward-looking statements in this release do not constitute guarantees of future performance. Those statements involve a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including risks associated with the company's business involving the company's products, their development and distribution, economic and competitive factors and the company's key strategic relationships and other risks detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. First Solar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release or with respect to the announcements described herein.
This news release was distributed by PrimeNewswire,
www.primenewswire.com
SOURCE: First Solar, Inc.
First Solar, Inc.
For media inquiries, contact: Paula Vaughnn +1 (602) 414-9322 pvaughnn@firstsolar.com
Edelman Justine Troy +1 (212) 704-8280 jtroy@ar-edelman.com


