FILE:FSLR/FSLR-8K-20071217173635.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On December 17, 2007, First Solar, Inc. ("First Solar") announced that John Gaffney will join the company as its Executive Vice President and General Counsel, effective January 15, 2008. Mr. Gaffney will lead First Solar's legal, corporate development, government affairs and corporate communications activities and will report to Mike Ahearn, Chief Executive Officer of First Solar. Mr. Gaffney, a partner at Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, has been a key advisor to First Solar, including having represented First Solar in its initial public offering. Mr. Gaffney, who is 47, received a B.A. from George Washington University and a J.D. and an M.B.A. from New York University.
     Mr. Gaffney will receive an annual base salary of $500,000 (subject to annual review) and standard First Solar benefits. Mr. Gaffney is also eligible to receive an annual bonus of up to 80% of his annual base salary, based on company and individual performance.
     In connection with the commencement of his employment, Mr. Gaffney will receive a sign-on payment of $7,000,000, payable in 20 equal quarterly installments commencing on March 31, 2008. If Mr. Gaffney's employment is terminated for any reason other than termination by First Solar without cause (as defined in the agreement), Mr. Gaffney will forfeit any unpaid portion of the sign-on payment. Prior to commencing employment, Mr. Gaffney will receive a grant of restricted stock units with respect to First Solar common stock with an aggregate grant date fair market value of $7,000,000, as determined by the Board of Directors of First Solar (the "Board"), which will vest in 20 equal quarterly installments commencing on March 31, 2008. He will also receive a grant of stock options to purchase 100,000 shares of First Solar common stock, exercisable at fair market value on the date of grant as determined by the Board, which will vest in five equal annual installments commencing on December 31, 2008. The restricted stock units and stock options will be subject to the additional terms of grant approved by the Board and the First Solar 2006 Omnibus Incentive Compensation Plan.
     Mr. Gaffney's employment is anticipated to commence on January 15, 2008, and continue for an indefinite period of time. If First Solar terminates Mr. Gaffney's employment without cause, First Solar will pay Mr. Gaffney a lump-sum severance payment equal to his annual base salary in effect at the time of termination and will provide him with continued medical coverage for 12 months. In addition, the restricted stock units and stock options granted to Mr. Gaffney in connection with his hiring will immediately vest, and any other equity awards Mr. Gaffney holds at such time will receive an additional 12 months of vesting. Mr. Gaffney is also subject to a confidentiality agreement and a non-competition and non-solicitation agreement, which provides that Mr. Gaffney will not compete with First Solar for 12 months after termination of his employment.
 
     Mr. Gaffney has also entered into a Change in Control Severance Agreement with First Solar, which provides that upon a termination of employment by First Solar without cause (as defined in the agreement) or by Mr. Gaffney for good reason (as defined in the agreement) within the two-year period following a change in control (as defined in the agreement), Mr. Gaffney will be entitled to a lump-sum severance payment equal to the sum of (a) two times the sum of (i) his base salary and (ii) the greater of (A) his target bonus and (B) the average of the bonuses payable to him over the previous three years and (b) a prorated target bonus for the year of termination, as well as 18 months of continued medical coverage. In addition, all of his equity awards will vest upon a change in control. Mr. Gaffney will also be entitled to a limited gross-up for excise taxes imposed under Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code.
     A copy of the press release announcing that Mr. Gaffney will be joining First Solar is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
(d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
First Solar Hires John Gaffney as Executive Vice President and General Counsel
 First Solar, Inc. (Nasdaq: FSLR) announced today that John Gaffney will join the company as its Executive Vice President and General Counsel, effective January 15, 2008. Mr. Gaffney will lead First Solar's legal, corporate development, government affairs, and corporate communications activities and will report to Mike Ahearn, Chief Executive Officer of First Solar. Mr. Gaffney, a partner at Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, has been a key advisor to First Solar, including having represented First Solar in its initial public offering.
PHOENIX, Arizona.  Dec. 17, 2007
"We have benefited greatly from John's advice and guidance and we are honored that he has accepted our offer to expand his role by joining First Solar," said Mike Ahearn. "He brings a wealth of legal and business experience to First Solar and significantly strengthens our team."
As a partner at Cravath, Mr. Gaffney has advised numerous corporate and financial institution clients on merger, acquisition and capital markets transactions. Mr. Gaffney received a B.A. from George Washington University and a J.D. and an M.B.A. from New York University.
 
About First Solar
First Solar, Inc. [NASDAQ: FSLR] manufactures solar modules with an advanced thin film semiconductor process that significantly lowers solar electricity costs. By enabling clean renewable electricity at affordable prices, First Solar provides an economic alternative to peak conventional electricity and the related fossil fuel dependence, greenhouse gas emissions and peak time grid constraints.
For First Solar Investors
This release contains forward-looking statements which are made pursuant to the safe harbour provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The forward-looking statements in this release do not constitute guarantees of future performance. Those statements involve a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including risks associated with the company's business involving the company's products, their development and distribution, economic and competitive factors and the company's key strategic relationships and other risks detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. First Solar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release or with respect to the announcements described herein.
For media inquiries, contact:
Lisa Morse, First Solar, Inc. (602) 414-9361
lmorse@firstsolar.com


