FILE:FSLR/FSLR-8K-20090430175105.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
Signature
EX-99.1: Press Release
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01. Other Events
     On April 29, 2009, First Solar announced that is has initiated a process to recruit its next chief executive officer to succeed Michael J. Ahearn. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
     The information in this Form 8-K and in Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liability of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhit 99.1
ib
 
News Release
 
 
First Solar, Inc. announced today that it has initiated a process to recruit its next chief executive officer to succeed Michael Ahearn.   Upon selection of a new chief executive officer, Ahearn will continue to serve in the full-time position of executive chairman. In this role Ahearn will focus his efforts at First Solar on the development of public policies needed for the global transition to low-carbon energy infrastructures.
TEMPE, ARIZ.  Apr 29, 2009 
We are rapidly reaching the point where the evolution of the energy industry will be constrained not by technology or product costs, but rather by policies, programs and institutions that cannot adapt rapidly to the innovations that are occurring in clean energy, said Ahearn. Given First Solars leadership position in the industry, I believe we are in a unique position to make a valuable contribution to those policy discussions. This will require virtually full-time focus from the very top of the organization. As a major shareholder and founder of the Company, I remain committed to its success.
The Company has initiated an external search for a new chief executive officer, led by a committee of the Board of Directors. The Board intends to run a thorough and deliberate process designed to identify and recruit a candidate consistent with specific criteria developed with the existing management team and required to lead the Company in executing its long term strategic plan.
About First Solar
 
First Solar, Inc. (Nasdaq: FSLR) is changing the way the world is powered by creating truly sustainable solar energy solutions.  The Company is the worlds largest photovoltaic module manufacturer of PV modules in the world. First Solar manufactures solar modules with an advanced semiconductor technology and provides comprehensive PV system solutions. By constantly decreasing manufacturing costs, First Solar is creating an affordable and environmentally responsible alternative to fossil-fuel generation. First Solar modules are most effective when demand for traditional forms of energy is at its peak. First Solar set the benchmark for environmentally responsible product life cycle management by introducing the industry's first comprehensive collection and recycling program for solar modules. From raw material sourcing through end-of-life collection and recycling, First Solar is focused on creating cost-effective renewable energy solutions that protect and enhance the environment. For more information about First Solar, please visit www.firstsolar.com, or www.firstsolar.com/media to download photos.
 
For First Solar Investors
 
This release contains forward-looking statements which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The forward-looking statements in this release do not constitute guarantees of future performance. Those statements involve a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including risks associated with the company's business involving the company's products, their development and distribution, economic and competitive factors and the company's key strategic relationships and other risks detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. First Solar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release or with respect to the announcements described herein.
SOURCE: First Solar, Inc.
 
Contact
United States:                                                                                     Europe:
Lisa Morse                                                                                          Brandon Mitchener
+1-602-414-9361                                                                                  +49-6131-1443-399
                                                                        
media@firstsolar.com
media@firstsolar.com


