FILE:FSLR/FSLR-8K-20090409144929.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Signature
Exhibit 99.1
 
Item 3.02. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities.
     On April 3, 2009, First Solar, Inc. ("First Solar") completed the acquisition of the solar power project development business (the "Project Business") of OptiSolar Inc., a Delaware corporation ("OptiSolar"). Pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") dated as of March 2, 2009 by and among First Solar, First Solar Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation ("Merger Sub"), OptiSolar and OptiSolar Holdings LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("OptiSolar Holdings"), Merger Sub merged with and into OptiSolar, with OptiSolar surviving as a wholly-owned subsidiary of First Solar (the "Merger"). Pursuant to the Merger, all the outstanding shares of common stock of OptiSolar held by OptiSolar Holdings were exchanged for the Merger Shares (as defined below).
     The Merger Shares consist of 2,972,420 shares of First Solar common stock, including (i) 732,789 shares that have been deposited with an escrow agent to support certain indemnification obligations, and (ii) 355,096 shares that may be issued upon satisfaction of conditions relating to the satisfaction of certain existing liabilities of OptiSolar (the "Holdback Shares").
      The Merger Shares were issued, and any Holdback Shares will be issued, in a private placement exempt from registration pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). First Solar has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a registration statement under the Securities Act covering the resale of 2,801,435 of the Merger Shares.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
      The information included in Item 3.02 above is incorporated by reference into this Item 8.01. On April 3, 2009, First Solar issued a press release announcing completion of the acquisition of the Project Business. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Press Release
 First Solar, Inc. (Nasdaq: FSLR) today announced that it has completed its acquisition of OptiSolar's photovoltaic project pipeline. First Solar expects to construct the solar power plants developed under the pipeline over the next several years and sell them to a combination of regulated utilities, diversified energy companies and other independent power producers.
Tempe, Ariz.  April 3, 2009
In addition, the core development team responsible for assembling and executing on the solar project pipeline has joined the First Solar development team. First Solar acquired all of OptiSolar's project development business in an all-stock transaction valued at approximately $400 million. As a result of the closing today, First Solar will issue approximately 3 million shares of common stock representing a dilution of about 3.5 percent. This is less than the approximate 5 percent dilution expected when the acquisition was announced, due to recent appreciation in the price of shares of the Company's common stock.
About First Solar
First Solar, Inc. (Nasdaq: FSLR) manufactures solar modules with an advanced semiconductor technology and provides comprehensive photovoltaic (PV) solutions that significantly reduce solar electricity costs. By enabling clean, renewable electricity at competitive prices, First Solar provides an economic and environmentally responsible alternative to existing peaking fossil-fuel electric generation. First Solar PV power plants operate with no water or air emissions, and no waste stream. First Solar set the benchmark for environmentally responsible product life cycle management by introducing the industry's first comprehensive collection and recycling program for solar modules. From raw material sourcing through end-of-life collection and recycling, First Solar is focused on creating cost-effective renewable energy solutions that protect and enhance the environment. For more information about First Solar, please visit , or to download photos.
www.firstsolar.com
www.firstsolar.com/media
For First Solar Investors
This release contains forward-looking statements which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The forward-looking statements in this release do not constitute guarantees of future performance. Those statements involve a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including risks associated with the company's business involving the company's products, their development and distribution, economic and competitive factors and the company's key strategic relationships and other risks detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Some important risks specific to the acquisition include the satisfaction of closing conditions for the acquisition and the possibility that the transaction may not be completed, and potential difficulties associated with integrating the acquired project businesses into First Solar's existing operations. First Solar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release or with respect to the announcements described herein.
SOURCE: First Solar, Inc.
Contact Lisa Morse 602-414-9361
media@firstsolar.com


