FILE:FSLR/FSLR-8K-20110321130106.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): March 15, 2011
 
 
 
FIRST SOLAR, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
 
350 West Washington Street
Suite 600
Tempe, Arizona 85281
(Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (602) 414-9300
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
 
On March 15, 2011, First Solar, Inc. (First Solar) announced the appointment of Mark R. Widmar as Chief Financial Officer, effective April 4, 2011.  Mr. Widmar will succeed James Zhu, First Solar's Chief Accounting Officer who has served as interim Chief Financial Officer since January 1, 2011. Mr. Zhu will remain First Solar's Chief Accounting Officer.
    
Mr. Widmar, age 45, most recently served as Chief Financial Officer of GrafTech International Ltd., a leading global manufacturer of advanced carbon and graphite materials, from May 2006 through March 2011, as well as President, Engineered Solutions from January 2011 through March 2011. Prior to joining GrafTech, Mr. Widmar served as Corporate Controller of NCR Inc. from 2005 to 2006, and was a Business Unit Chief Financial Officer for NCR from November 2002 to his appointment as Controller. He also served as a Division Controller at Dell, Inc. from August 2000 to November 2002 prior to joining NCR. Mr. Widmar also held various financial and managerial positions with Lucent Technologies Inc., Allied Signal, Inc., and Bristol Myers/Squibb, Inc. Mr. Widmar holds a B.S. in Business Accounting and a Masters of Business Administration from Indiana University. Mr. Widmar is a Certified Public Accountant.
 
Mr. Widmar will be entitled to an annual base salary of $435,000 (subject to annual increases at First Solar's discretion) and the opportunity to participate in First Solar's annual bonus program with a target bonus percentage of 80% of his annual base salary.
 
Upon his hire, Mr. Widmar will be granted restricted stock units having an aggregate fair market value on the date of grant equal to $2,340,000 (a portion of which is intended to compensate Mr. Widmar for amounts forfeited with his current employer), which will vest commencing on the first anniversary of the grant date at an annual rate of 25% per year. Mr. Widmar will also be paid (i) a sign-on bonus of $262,800 in cash (also intended to compensate Mr. Widmar for foregone compensation), and (ii) a loss on home sale benefit under First Solar's relocation program of $296,000 in cash, on an after-tax basis, in connection with Mr. Widmar's relocation to the Tempe, Arizona area.
    
Mr. Widmar will be eligible to participate in First Solar's standard employee benefit programs and will be entitled to benefits and perquisites consistent with those provided to other senior executives of First Solar.
    
In the event of a termination of employment by First Solar without cause outside the change in control protection period (as described below), Mr. Widmar will receive cash severance equal to 12 months salary continuation, subject to delivery of a release of claims, as well as medical coverage for 12 months or until such time as Mr. Widmar obtains coverage under any other medical benefits plan.  In addition, in the event Mr. Widmar's employment is terminated without cause or due to his death or disability outside the change in control protection period, then any equity award (or portion thereof) that would have vested or become exercisable by its terms within 12 months following the date of Mr. Widmar's termination of employment (assuming he continued to perform services for such 12-month period) will become vested or exercisable as of the date of his termination of employment.
    
In the event of a termination of Mr. Widmar's employment by First Solar without cause or by Mr. Widmar for good reason within the two years following a change in control (or prior to a change in control at the request of the third party effecting the change in control), such period the change in control protection period, Mr. Widmar will receive (i) a prorated target bonus, (ii) cash severance equal to two times the sum of (a) his annual salary and (b) the greater of his target bonus or his average bonus during the preceding three years, (iii) continued health and welfare benefits for 18 months, (iv) up to $20,000 in expenses for outplacement services, all subject to delivery of a release of claims, and (v) full vesting of all of his equity awards.  
    
Mr. Widmar will be subject to certain restrictions on competition and solicitation during his employment with First Solar and for one year thereafter, as well as separate confidentiality and intellectual property obligations, each pursuant to agreements the terms of which are consistent in all material respects to those that First Solar has previously entered into with its executive officers.  
    
Mr. Widmar is not a party to any transaction required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
    
On March 15, 2011, First Solar issued a press release regarding Mr. Widmar's appointment, which is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Mark Widmar to Join First Solar as Chief Financial Officer
 
TEMPE, Ariz. - March 15, 2011 - First Solar, Inc. (Nasdaq: FSLR) today announced that Mark Widmar will join as Chief Financial Officer (CFO), responsible for the company's global financial operations. Widmar will succeed James Zhu, who has been interim CFO since Jan. 1, 2011. Zhu will retain his role as First Solar's Chief Accounting Officer.
 
Widmar joins First Solar effective April 4, 2011, from Graftech International Ltd., a leading global manufacturer of advanced carbon and graphite materials, where he was CFO and President of the Engineered Solutions segment. Prior to joining Graftech in 2006, Widmar worked at NCR Corporation from 2003 as corporate controller and a business unit CFO. Before that he was a division controller for Dell, Inc. and a business unit CFO for Lucent Technologies.
 
Mark brings nearly 25 years of experience in finance, accounting and controlling to First Solar, said Rob Gillette, CEO of First Solar. We are confident that Mark's expertise and his track record of delivering results make him the right leader for our finance organization.
 
Widmar earned a B.S. in business accounting and an M.B.A. in finance from Indiana University and is a Certified Public Accountant (CPA).
 
###
 
For further information please contact:
Media:
First Solar - (North America)
Ted Meyer
Alan Bernheimer
+1 (602) 414-9361
media@firstsolar.com
or
First Solar - (Europe)
Brandon Mitchener
+49 (0) 6131 1443-399
media-emea@firstsolar.com
 
Investors:
Larry Polizzotto
Pam Hegarty
602-414-9315
investor@firstsolar.com
 
About First Solar, Inc.
First Solar manufactures solar modules with an advanced semiconductor technology and provides comprehensive photovoltaic (PV) system solutions. The company is delivering an economically viable alternative to fossil-fuel generation today. From raw material sourcing through end-of-life collection and recycling, First Solar is focused on creating cost-effective, renewable energy solutions that protect and enhance the environment. For more information about First Solar, please visit www.firstsolar.com.
 
 
 
For First Solar Investors:
This release contains forward-looking statements which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The forward-looking statements in this release do not constitute guarantees of future performance. Those statements involve a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including risks associated with the company's business involving the company's products, their development and distribution, economic and competitive factors and the company's key strategic relationships and other risks detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. First Solar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release or with respect to the announcements described herein.
 
 
###
 
 


