FILE:FSLR/FSLR-8K-20111214071136.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Material Impairments	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): December 9, 2011
 
FIRST SOLAR, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
350 West Washington Street
Suite 600
Tempe, Arizona 85281
(Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(602) 414-9300
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.05 Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
On December 13, 2011, executive management of First Solar, Inc. (First Solar or the Company) approved a set of restructuring initiatives intended to accelerate operating cost reductions and improve overall operating efficiency. In connection with these restructuring initiatives, First Solar expects to incur total charges of up to $85 million, the majority of which is expected to be recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011. These charges consist primarily of (i) up to $75 million of asset impairment and associated charges (of which up to approximately $63 million is expected to be non-cash) related to a significant reduction in certain research and development activities that had been focused on an alternative photovoltaic ("PV") product, and (ii) up to $10 million in severance benefits to terminated employees as described below, most of which is expected to be paid out by the end of the fourth quarter of 2012. First Solar will be refocusing its research and development center in Santa Clara, California on the development of advanced CdTe PV technologies, compared to a broader research and development effort up until now. First Solar expects as part of the restructuring initiatives to eliminate up to 100 positions company-wide, representing less than 1.5% of First Solar's global workforce, including approximately 85 employees in the U.S. Approximately 70% of the expected reduction in the U.S. workforce relates to the above-referenced refocusing of research and development activities.
Item 2.06 Material Impairments.
See Item 2.05 Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Effective January 1, 2012, the Company and TK Kallenbach, President, Components Business Group, mutually agreed to end Mr. Kallenbach's employment with the Company. Mr. Kallenbach will receive certain compensation and benefits in accordance with the terms of his employment agreement. Mr. Kallenbach entered into a non-competition and non-solicitation agreement and a confidentiality and intellectual property agreement upon his employment, both of which shall continue to apply in accordance with their terms.
Effective May 1, 2012, the Company and James Zhu, Chief Accounting Officer, mutually agreed to end Mr. Zhu's employment with the Company. Mr. Zhu will receive certain compensation and benefits in accordance with the terms of his employment agreement. Mr. Zhu entered into a non-competition and non-solicitation agreement and a confidentiality and intellectual property agreement upon his employment, both of which shall continue to apply in accordance with their terms.
Mark Widmar, the Company's Chief Financial Officer, will assume the additional role of Chief Accounting Officer effective February 1, 2012.
On December 14, 2011, First Solar issued a press release regarding the above-referenced officer changes, which is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On December 14, 2011, First Solar issued a press release and will hold a conference call regarding an update to 2011 financial guidance and its 2012 financial guidance. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K.
The information in this Form 8-K and in Exhibit 99.2 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liability of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 8.01 Other Information.
In connection with a continuing objective of balancing production capabilities with market demand, the Company is evaluating various means to reduce 2012 annual manufacturing production by more than 400MW. The Company expects to produce approximately 2GW of modules in 2012, reflecting an approximately 80% manufacturing capacity utilization rate, compared to an expected manufacturing capacity of approximately 2.5GW by the end of 2012. The Company expects to strategically idle some manufacturing capacity in 2012 in order to implement upgraded process technologies across existing manufacturing lines as part of its accelerated conversion efficiency improvement initiatives, and to better align production with expected market demand. The Company also expects to qualify its Mesa, Arizona manufacturing plant in 2012, but does not expect to start commercial production at this facility until 2013.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
First Solar Appoints Jim Brown President, Global Business Development
Announces Additional Executive Changes
TEMPE, Ariz., Dec. 14, 2011
- First Solar, Inc. (NASDAQ: FSLR) today announced it will consolidate its worldwide sales and project development activities under Jim Brown, who has been appointed to the new role of President, Global Business Development. The move combines First Solar's Utility Systems Business Group and Components Business Group under a unified global structure encompassing sales, project development, product management and the customer service and technical services groups. As a result of the reorganization, TK Kallenbach, President of the Components Business Group (CBG), will leave First Solar effective Jan. 1, 2012.
In addition, First Solar has reorganized the structure and roles in its finance and accounting groups to optimize efficiency. As a result, James Zhu, Chief Accounting Officer, has elected to leave the company to pursue other opportunities. Mark Widmar, Chief Financial Officer (CFO), will add the role of Chief Accounting Officer to his responsibilities effective Feb. 1, 2012, and Zhu will remain with First Solar through May 1, 2012 to ensure a smooth transition.
"We thank TK and James for their dedication and for their commitment to helping us build sustainable global markets for solar electricity, said Mike Ahearn, Chairman and interim CEO of First Solar. These changes support our broader effort to reposition First Solar to lead the industry through the current market turbulence, and to better serve our customers around the world with comprehensive solar energy solutions.
First Solar is uniquely positioned in the PV (photovoltaic) industry to have a deep and meaningful impact on the future of electricity generation, and it has been rewarding to be a part of that success, said Kallenbach.
Brown joined First Solar in 2008 as Vice President, Project Finance, and was appointed President of the Utility Systems business in Aug. 2011. Prior to joining First Solar, Brown worked in banking for approximately 20 years covering project and structured finance for the energy and industrial sectors.
Widmar joined First Solar as CFO in April 2011 from Graftech International Ltd., where he was CFO. Prior to joining Graftech in 2006, he held senior positions in finance and controlling at NCR, Dell, and Lucent Technologies. Widmar is a Certified Public Accountant (CPA).
Kallenbach joined First Solar in Dec. 2009 as Executive Vice President of Marketing and Product Management and was appointed President of the Components Business Group in Feb. 2011. Before joining First Solar, Kallenbach worked for Honeywell Aerospace for 30 years in variety of senior business, technical and strategy leadership positions.
Zhu joined First Solar in 2007 as Vice President and Corporate Controller and has been Chief Accounting Officer since 2009. Prior to joining, First Solar Zhu was Vice President and Corporate Controller at Salesforce.com.
About First Solar, Inc.
First Solar manufactures solar modules with an advanced semiconductor technology, and is a premier provider of comprehensive photovoltaic (PV) system solutions. The company is delivering an economically viable alternative to fossil-fuel
generation today. From raw material sourcing through end-of-life collection and recycling, First Solar is focused on creating value-driven renewable energy solutions that protect and enhance the environment. For more information about First Solar, please visit www.firstsolar.com.
For First Solar Investors
This release contains forward-looking statements which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The forward-looking statements in this release do not constitute guarantees of future performance. Those statements involve a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including risks associated with the company's business involving the company's products, their development and distribution, economic and competitive factors and the company's key strategic relationships and other risks detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. First Solar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release or with respect to the announcements described herein.
Contacts:
Media
Ted Meyer
ted.meyer@firstsolar.com
+1 (602) 427-3318
Investors
David Brady
dbrady@firstsolar.com
Luke Fairborn
lucas.fairborn@firstsolar.com
+1 (602) 414-9315

EXHIBIT 99.2
First Solar Updates 2011 Financial Guidance and Announces 2012 Financial Guidance
TEMPE, Ariz., Dec. 14, 2011
- First Solar, Inc. (NASDAQ: FSLR) today updated the Company's 2011 financial guidance and announced 2012 guidance.
First Solar now forecasts 2011 net sales in the range of $2.8 to $2.9 billion, down from the Company's prior guidance range for net sales of $3.0 to $3.3 billion. The Company expects diluted earnings per share (EPS) for 2011 to be in the range of $5.75 to $6.00, with consolidated operating income of $575 to $600 million. The primary reason for the revised 2011 guidance is continued delays of certain projects in First Solar's systems business due to weather and other factors.
Not included in the revised guidance are expected charges related to a series of initiatives to accelerate operating cost reductions and improve overall operating efficiency, the majority of which the Company expects to incur in the current quarter. These charges include up to $0.75 per fully diluted share of impairment and associated charges primarily related to certain equipment, and a severance charge of up to $0.10 per fully diluted share related to a workforce reduction of approximately 100 associates, less than 1.5 percent of First Solar's workforce.
For 2012, First Solar forecasts net sales in the range of $3.7 to $4.0 billion, including approximately $1.7 billion from the systems business. Diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of $3.75 to $4.25, and consolidated operating income is expected to be $425 to $450 million. The Company expects to generate $0.9 to $1.1 billion of operating cash flow and plans for approximately $375-$425 million in capital investment in 2012.
Our diverse business model and robust project pipeline will help First Solar generate a significant amount of cash in 2012 while improving operational efficiencies, but we are recalibrating our business to focus on building and serving sustainable markets rather than pursuing subsidized markets, said Mike Ahearn, Chairman and Interim CEO of First Solar. By channeling our core strength in utility-scale PV systems to markets with immediate need for mass-scale renewable energy our goal is to earn substantially all of our new revenues from sustainable markets by the end of 2014."
First Solar will discuss the Company's revised 2011 guidance and outlook for 2012 in a conference call scheduled for today at 8:00 a.m. EST. Investors may access a live audio webcast of this call and presentation in the Investors section of the Company's website at www.firstsolar.com.
An audio replay of the conference call will also be available approximately two hours after the conclusion of the call. The audio replay will remain available until Sunday, December 18th, 2011 at 11:59 p.m. EST and can be accessed by dialing 888-203-1112 if you are calling from within the United States or 719-457-0820 if you are calling from outside the United States and entering the replay pass code 7459995. A replay of the webcast will be available on the Investors section of the Company's web site approximately two hours after the conclusion of the call and remain available for approximately 90 calendar days. If you are a subscriber of FactSet or Thomson One, you can obtain a written transcript.
About First Solar, Inc.
First Solar manufactures solar modules with an advanced semiconductor technology, and is a premier provider of
comprehensive photovoltaic (PV) system solutions. The company is delivering an economically viable alternative to fossil-fuel generation today. From raw material sourcing through end-of-life collection and recycling, First Solar is focused on creating value-driven renewable energy solutions that protect and enhance the environment. For more information about First Solar, please visit www.firstsolar.com.
For First Solar Investors
This release contains forward-looking statements which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The forward-looking statements in this release do not constitute guarantees of future performance. Those statements involve a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including risks associated with the company's business involving the company's products, their development and distribution, economic and competitive factors and the company's key strategic relationships and other risks detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. First Solar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release or with respect to the announcements described herein.
Contacts:
Media
Ted Meyer
ted.meyer@firstsolar.com
+1 (602) 427-3318
Investors
David Brady
dbrady@firstsolar.com
Luke Fairborn
lucas.fairborn@firstsolar.com
+1 (602) 414-9315


