FILE:FSLR/FSLR-8K-20110707152348.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On June 30, 2011, First Solar Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. (the "Borrower"), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of First Solar, Inc. (the "Company"), entered into a Ringgit Malaysia-denominated US$150,000,000 equivalent Facility Agreement (the "Facility Agreement"), among the Borrower, the Company, as guarantor, CIMB Investment Bank Berhad, Maybank Investment Bank Berhad and RHB Investment Bank Berhad, as arrangers (the "Arrangers"), CIMB Investment Bank Berhad as facility agent (the "Facility Agent") and security agent (the "Security Agent"), and the original lenders party thereto. A copy of the Facility Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The proceeds of the Facility Agreement will be used by the Borrower to finance, in part, the design, construction and commission of the Borrower's fifth and sixth manufacturing plants in Malaysia ("Plants 5 and 6") and the acquisition of certain plant, equipment and machinery to be utilized in Plants 5 and 6.
Borrowings under the Facility Agreement bear interest at an expected rate per annum equal to a KLIBOR rate determined by reference to the rate for the offering of deposits in Ringgit Malaysia appearing on the "KLIBOR" page of the Reuters screen, plus any mandatory costs.
The Borrower may voluntarily prepay outstanding loans under the Facility Agreement at any time without premium or penalty, subject to compensation for customary "break costs" and certain other requirements. The Borrower is required to prepay loans with certain insurance proceeds, and the loans are subject to mandatory prepayment upon the occurrence of a change of control, material asset disposal or termination of the construction of Plants 5 and 6, each as described in the Facility Agreement.
The loans made to the Borrower are secured by, among other things, a first fixed legal charge over the Borrower's leases over the leased lots on which Plants 5 and 6 are located and a first fixed legal charge over all plant, equipment and machinery purchased by the Borrower with the proceeds of the facility or otherwise installed in or utilized in Plants 5 and 6, to the extent not financed, encumbered, charged to secure or subject to a negative pledge under a separate financing facility relating to Plants 5 and 6. In addition, the Borrower's obligations under the Facility Agreement are guaranteed, on an unsecured basis, by the Company pursuant to the Facility Agreement.
The Facility Agreement contains negative covenants that, among other things, restrict, subject to certain exceptions, the ability of the Borrower to incur indebtedness, create liens, effect asset sales, engage in reorganizations, issue guarantees and make loans. In addition, the Facility Agreement includes financial covenants relating to net total leverage ratio, interest coverage ratio, total debt to equity ratio, debt service coverage ratio and tangible net worth. The Facility Agreement also contains certain representations and warranties, affirmative covenants and events of default.
The foregoing summary of the Facility Agreement, and the transactions contemplated thereby, does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the full text of the Facility Agreement described herein.
The information included in Item 1.01 above is incorporated by reference to this Item 2.03.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 7, 2011
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
THIS AGREEMENT is dated 30 June 2011 and made between:
th
IT IS AGREED as follows:
In this Agreement:
"" means the date (if any) on which the Facility Agent gives a notice under paragraph (b) or (c) of Clause 22.18 ().
Acceleration Date
Acceleration
"" means, in relation to a document, that it is in a form initialled by or on behalf of the Borrower and the Facility Agent (acting on the instructions of all the Lenders).
Agreed Form
"" means the Asia Pacific Loan Market Association Limited.
APLMA
"" means (i) an agreement substantially in the form set out in Schedule 5 () or (ii) any other form agreed between the relevant assignor and assignee (and, provided the Borrower has a right to consent to such assignment pursuant to Clause 23 (), approved by the Borrower (acting reasonably)).
Assignment Agreement
Form of Assignment Agreement
Changes to the Lenders
"" means:
Authorisation
 
"" means the period of six (6) months from and including the date of this Agreement, or such other extended period as may be agreed between the Borrower and the Facility Agent (acting on the instructions of all of the Original Lenders).
Availability Period
"" means, where there has been no Utilisation under the Facility, a Lender's Commitment under the Facility.
Available Commitment
"" means the aggregate for the time being of each Lender's Available Commitment in respect of the Facility.
Available Facility
"" means, in relation to any Lender, the amount (if any) by which:
Break Costs
exceeds:
"" means:
Budget
(a) for the Financial Year ending 31 December 2011, the Initial Budget; and
"" means a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banks are open for general business in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
Business Day
"" has the meaning given to it in Clause 20.1 ().
Capital Expenditure
Definitions
"" means, other than Trapped Cash, any credit balance on any deposit, savings, current or other account, and any cash in hand, of the Borrower or to which the Borrower is beneficially entitled, and which is:
Cash
 
"" means obligations which are traded in a liquid market and are:
Cash Equivalent Investments
 
in each case not subject to any Security (other than pursuant to any Permitted Security), denominated and payable in freely transferable and freely convertible currency and the proceeds of which are capable of being remitted to an Obligor.
"" means the Guarantor ceases to own legally and beneficially, whether directly or indirectly:
Change of Control
"" means all of the assets of the Obligors and the Security Providers which from time to time are, or are expressed to be, the subject of the Transaction Security.
Charged Assets
"" means:-
Commitment
to the extent not cancelled, reduced, transferred or assigned by it under this Agreement.
"" means the Forms of Commitment Advice executed by each of the Original Lenders prior to the date of this Agreement.
Commitment Documents
"" means a certificate substantially in the form set out in Schedule 6 ().
Compliance Certificate
Form of Compliance Certificate
"" means all information relating to any Obligor, the Finance Documents or the Facility of which a Finance Party becomes aware in its capacity as, or for the purpose of becoming, a Finance Party or which is received by a Finance Party in relation to, or for the purpose of becoming a Finance Party under, the Finance Documents or the Facility from either:
Confidential Information
in whatever form, and includes information given orally and any document, electronic file or any other way of representing or recording information which contains or is derived or copied from such information but excludes information that:
 
"" means a confidentiality undertaking of comparable or superior effect to the confidentiality obligations contained in this Agreement, substantially in a recommended form of the APLMA or in any other form agreed between the Borrower and the Facility Agent.
Confidentiality Undertaking
"" means, in respect of each participation in the Loan held by a Lender during each Interest Period, (a) KLIBOR for such Interest Period; (b) the cost (expressed as a percentage per annum) to the Lender of maintaining statutory reserve and liquidity requirements and/or complying with any other requirements as imposed from time to time by Bank Negara Malaysia or any other Governmental Authority of Malaysia in accordance with which such Lender is required to act in respect of the Loan, as notified to the Facility Agent by such Lender from time to time.
Cost of Funds
plus
"" means the first ranking absolute assignment in writing in favour of the Security Agent of the Borrower's rights, title and interest under the Lease Agreement, and the Borrower's rights, title and interest in and to the Leased Lots arising pursuant to the Lease Agreement, (but excluding, for the avoidance of doubt, (i) the Borrower's rights under the Lease Agreement to exercise an option in relation to the Option Lots and (ii) the Borrower's rights in and to the Option Lots, if such option is exercised).
Deed of Assignment (Leased Lots)
"" means any event or circumstance specified in Clause 22. () which would (with the expiry of a grace period, the giving of notice, the making of any determination under the Finance Documents or any combination of any of the foregoing) be an Event of Default.
Default
Events of Default
"" means any Lender:
Defaulting Lender
unless, in the case of paragraph (a) above:
 
"" means the aggregate principal amount of the Loan utilised on or as at the Utilisation Date.
Drawdown Amount
"" has the meaning given to it in Clause 20.1 ().
EBITDA
Definitions
"" means the taking of any action under paragraph (d) of Clause 22.18 ().
Enforcement Event
Acceleration
"" means living organisms including the ecological systems of which they form part and the following media:
Environment
"" means any claim, proceeding, formal notice or investigation by any person in respect of any Environmental Law.
Environmental Claim
"" means all laws and regulations of any relevant jurisdiction concerning or applicable with regard to: (i) the pollution or protection of, or compensation of damage or harm to, the Environment; (ii) occupational or public health and safety; (iii) emissions, discharges or releases into, or the presence in, the Environment capable of causing harm to any living organism or the Environment.
Environmental Law
"" means any permit and other Authorisation and the filing of any notification, report or assessment required under any Environmental Law for the operation of the business of the Borrower conducted on or from the properties owned or used by the Borrower.
Environmental Licence
"" means the Existing Euler Hermes Facility and the New Euler Hermes Facility.
Euler Hermes Facilities
"" means any event or circumstance specified as such in Clause 22 () (other than Clause 22.18 () and Clause 22.19 ()).
Event of Default
Events of Default
Acceleration
Remedied financial covenant breaches
"" means the existing EUR133,960,000 financing facility granted to the Borrower and guaranteed by Euler Hermes Kreditversicherungs-AG, as disclosed to the Finance Parties prior to the date of this Agreement.
Existing Euler Hermes Facility
"" means the term loan facility made available under this Agreement as described in Clause 2 ().
Facility
The Facility
"" means the office or offices notified by a Lender to the Facility Agent in writing on or before the date it becomes a Lender (or, following that date, by not less than five (5) Business Days' written notice) as the office or offices through which it will perform its obligations under this Agreement.
Facility Office
 
"" means each date specified in Clause 6.1 () for the payment of a Repayment Instalment.
Facility Repayment Date
Repayment of Loan
"" means any letter or letters between, as the case may be, the Facility Agent and/or the Security Agent and, in each case, an Obligor setting out any of the fees referred to in Clause 11 ().
Fee Letter
Fees
"" means this Agreement, any Fee Letter, any Security Document, the Commitment Documents, and any other document designated as such by the Facility Agent and the Borrower.
Finance Document
"" means any lease or hire purchase contract which would, in accordance with IFRS or US GAAP, be treated as a finance or capital lease.
Finance Lease
"" means the Facility Agent, the Security Agent, an Arranger or a Lender.
Finance Party
"" means:
Financial Indebtedness
and the Borrower's Financial Indebtedness shall include the Financial Indebtedness of any other entity to the extent the Borrower is liable therefor as a result of the Borrower's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Financial Indebtedness expressly provide that the Borrower is not liable therefor
"" means the period commencing on the day after one Quarter Date and ending on the next Quarter Date.
Financial Quarter
 
"" means the period of 12 months ending on 31 December in any year.
Financial Year
"" means the memorandum in the Agreed Form containing details of the flow of funds on and after the Utilisation Date.
Funds Flow Statement
"" means any governmental, intergovernmental or supranational body, agency, department or regulatory, self-regulatory or other authority or organisation, including national, federal, state and local governments, and any agency, commission or subdivision thereof that has the authority to issue rules or regulations with the force of law.
Governmental Authority
"" means the Guarantor and its Subsidiaries for the time being.
Group
"" means, in relation to a company, corporation or other legal entity, any other company, corporation or other legal entity in respect of which it is a Subsidiary.
Holding Company
"" means the Facility Agent at any time when:
Impaired Agent
unless, in the case of paragraph (a) above:
"" means any goods and services tax, consumption tax, value added tax or any tax of a similar nature.
Indirect Tax
"" means the document in the form approved by the Borrower concerning the Group which was or will be prepared in relation to Syndication and distributed by the Arrangers to selected financial institutions.
Information Memorandum
"" means:
Information Package
 
"" means the budget supplied to the Finance Parties prior to the date of this Agreement.
Initial Budget
"" in relation to a Finance Party means the appointment of a liquidator, receiver, administrative receiver, administrator, compulsory manager or other similar officer in respect of that Finance Party or all or substantially all of that Finance Party's assets or any analogous procedure or step is taken in any jurisdiction with respect to that Finance Party.
Insolvency Event
"" means any proceeds (other than in relation to third party liabilities that are (or are to be) actually applied to meet such liabilities or in relation to consequential loss policies that are (or are to be) actually applied to cover operating losses, loss of profits or earnings or business interruption or similar claims) exceeding US$10,000,000 (or its equivalent in another currency or currencies) received in any Financial Year in respect of damage to or the loss or destruction of assets earmarked for or used in Plants 5 and 6 in respect of any single claim or series of related claims received by the Borrower under or pursuant to any insurance policy (or equivalent) after the date of this Agreement.
Insurance Proceeds
"" means, in relation to the Borrower, all trade marks, service marks, trade names, domain names, logos, get-up, patents, inventions, registered and unregistered design rights, copyrights, topography rights, database rights, rights in confidential information and know-how, and any associated or similar rights anywhere in the world, which it now or in the future owns or (to the extent of its interest) in which it now or in the future has an interest (in each case whether registered or unregistered and including any related licences and sub-licences of the same granted by it or to it, applications and rights to apply for the same).
Intellectual Property
"", in relation to any Lender, means:-
Interest Equalization Event
"" means, in relation to the Loan, each period determined in accordance with Clause 9 () and, in relation to an Unpaid Sum, each period determined in accordance with Clause 8.3 ().
Interest Period
Interest Periods
Default interest
"" means, in relation to the Utilisation:
KLIBOR
 
as of the Specified Time on the Quotation Day for the currency of the Utilisation and for a period comparable to the Interest Period of the Loan.
"" means the sixty (60) year lease over the Leased Lots commencing from 9 April 2010 granted by the Lessor to the Borrower as lessee pursuant to the Lease Agreement.
Lease
"" means the lease agreement dated 9 April 2010 between the Lessor, and the Borrower as lessee.
Lease Agreement
"" means the land described as such in the Lease Agreement, measuring approximately 60.61 acres in area and comprising a part of Lots 8 and 9 but excluding the Option Lots.
Leased Lots
"" means any legal opinion delivered to the Facility Agent pursuant to Clause 4 () or Clause 24 ().
Legal Opinion
Conditions of Utilisation
Changes to the Obligors
"" means:-
Lender
which in each case has not ceased to be a Lender in accordance with this Agreement.
"" means Kulim Technology Park Corporation Sdn. Bhd. and its successors in title and assigns.
Lessor
"" means all present and future moneys, debts and liabilities due, owing or incurred by any Obligor to any Secured Party under or in connection with any Secured Document (in each case, whether alone or jointly and severally, with any other person, whether actually or contingently and whether as principal, surety or otherwise).
Liabilities
"" means the loan made or to be made under the Facility or the principal amount outstanding for the time being of that loan.
Loan
"" means the land described as Lots 8 and 9, Industrial Zone Phase 3, Kulim Hi-Tech Park, Kedah Darul Aman in the Lease Agreement, measuring approximately 88.82 acres and 88.27 acres respectively, and comprising the Leased Lots and the Option Lots.
Lots 8 and 9
"" means the Lender, if there is only one (1) Lender, or if there is more than one (1) Lender:
Majority Lenders
 
"" means two per cent. (2.0%) per annum.
Margin
"" means accounting standards, principles and practices approved by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board.
MASB
"" means an event or circumstance that (after taking account of all relevant circumstances):
Material Adverse Effect
"" means the sale, lease, transfer or other disposal by the Borrower of any material Project assets (other than a Permitted Disposal), whether in a single transaction or a series of transactions, where the original cost to the Borrower of such Project assets was equal to or more than US$50,000,000 (or its equivalent in any other currency) in the aggregate.
Material Disposal
"" means any Subsidiary of the Guarantor which has been designated as a "Material Subsidiary" by agreement between the Facility Agent and the Borrower.
Material Subsidiary
"" means a period starting on one day in a calendar month and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the next calendar month, except that:
Month
The above rules will only apply to the last Month of any period.
"" means fully paid ordinary shares in the Borrower or fully paid redeemable shares in the Borrower with a redemption date at least six Months after the maturity of the Facility, which, in either case, would not be construed in accordance with US GAAP as Borrowings and which are issued to the Guarantor for cash after the Utilisation Date.
New Equity
"" means the financing facility of approximately EUR60 million to be provided to the Borrower and guaranteed by Euler Hermes Kreditversicherungs-AG, the proceeds of which are to be used to finance the acquisition of certain equipment and machinery to be installed in or utilized in Plants 5 and 6 (details of which have been or will be provided to the Finance Parties).
New Euler Hermes Facility
 
"" means all loans made by the Guarantor to the Borrower after the Utilisation Date.
New Loans
"" means the National Land Code, 1965.
NLC
"" means a first ranking legal charge under the NLC to be created by the Borrower over the Lease upon registration of the Lease pursuant to the NLC.
NLC Charge
"" means the Borrower or the Guarantor and "" means all of them.
Obligor
Obligors
"" means the land described as such in the Lease Agreement, comprising the remaining part of Lots 8 and 9 after excluding the Leased Lots and measuring approximately 116.48 acres in area.
Option Lots
"" means the Borrower's and the Guarantor's audited financial statements for the period ending 31 December 2010, and the Borrower's latest management reports and unaudited financial statements for the most recently ended quarter prior to the Utilisation Date.
Original Financial Statements
st
"" means a Lender listed in Part III of Schedule 1 () as having a Commitment.
Original Lender
The Original Parties
"" means a party to this Agreement.
Party
"" means the first fixed legal charge over:-
PEM Charge
For the avoidance of doubt:-
"" means the making of the appropriate registrations, filings or notifications (and the corresponding acknowledgements) of, or the payment of any stamp, registration or similar Taxes on, or in respect of, the Security Documents as specified in Schedule 2 () and the Security Documents.
Perfection Requirements
Conditions precedent
"" means a sale, lease, transfer or other disposal:
Permitted Disposal
 
"" means:
Permitted Financial Indebtedness
"" means:
Permitted Guarantee
 
"" means:
Permitted Loan
"" means a merger or amalgamation between the Borrower and another member of the Group, where:-
Permitted Merger
"" means:
Permitted Security
 
"" means any loan which is a Permitted Loan and any transaction entered into with the prior written consent of the Facility Agent, acting on the instructions of the Majority Lenders.
Permitted Transaction
"" means the 5 manufacturing plant of the Borrower in Malaysia, to be constructed on the Leased Lots.
Plant 5
th
"" means the 6 manufacturing plant of the Borrower in Malaysia, to be constructed on the Leased Lots.
Plant 6
th
"" means the design, construction and commissioning of Plants 5 and 6.
Project
"" means all costs and expenses incurred by or on behalf of the Borrower in respect of the design, construction and commissioning of the factory buildings relating to the Project, and the acquisition of plant, equipment and machinery in connection with the Project (as more particularly specified in the PEM Charge), but excluding stamp duty, fees and Tax relating to the Lease Agreement and the purchase of such plant, equipment and machinery.
Project Costs
"" means the cancellation or termination of the Project prior to its completion, or any other event or circumstance that (after taking account of all relevant circumstances) could reasonably be expected to lead to the cancellation or termination of the Project, or to the Project being put on hold for an indeterminate period.
Project Termination Event
"" means each of 31 March, 30 June, 30 September and 31 December.
Quarter Date
"" means, in relation to any period for which an interest rate is to be determined, the first day of that period.
Quotation Day
"" means, in relation to KLIBOR, CIMB Bank Berhad, Malayan Banking Berhad and RHB Bank Berhad, or such other banks as may be appointed by the Facility Agent in consultation with the Borrower.
Reference Banks
"" means, in relation to any person, a Subsidiary of that person or a Holding Company of that person or any other Subsidiary of that Holding Company.
Related Corporation
"" has the meaning given to it in Clause 20.1 ().
Relevant Date
Definitions
 
"" means the Kuala Lumpur interbank market.
Relevant Interbank Market
"" means, in relation to an Obligor:
Relevant Jurisdictions
"" means each date specified in paragraph (a) of Clause 6.1 () for the payment of a Repayment Instalment.
Repayment Dates
Repayment of Loan
"" means each instalment for repayment of the Facility specified in Clause 6.1 ().
Repayment Instalment
Repayment of Loan
"" means each of the representations set out in Clauses 18.1 () to 18.5 (), 18.7 (), paragraph (a) of 18.10 (), and paragraph (e) of 18.13 ().
Repeating Representations
Status
Power and authority
Governing law and enforcement
No default
Financial statements
"" means any delegate, agent, manager, administrator, nominee, attorney, trustee or custodian.
Representative
"" means:
Reservations
 
"" or "" means the lawful currency for the time being of Malaysia.
RM
Ringgit Malaysia
"", in relation to any amount denominated in US$ on a particular date, means the RM equivalent of the applicable US$ amount based on the average spot exchange rate of US$ to RM set out on REUTERS page "" at 11.30 a.m., Kuala Lumpur time on the relevant date.
RM Equivalent
MYRFIX1
"" means a disposal of all or substantially all of the assets of the Group (whether in a single transaction or a series of related transactions).
Sale
"" means for KLIBOR, the rate for RM and period displayed on the page "KLIBOR" of the Reuters screen or the webpage:-
Screen Rate
http://bondinfo.bnm.gov.my/portal/server.pt?open=514&objID=27221&parentname=MyPage &parentid=0&mode=2&in_hi_userid=22874&cached=true
on the Bank Negara Malaysia website at www.bnm.gov.my or, if the agreed pages are replaced or the service ceases to be available, the Facility Agent may specify another page or service displaying the appropriate rate after consultation with the Borrower and the Lenders.
"" means the Finance Parties, and "Secured Party" means a Finance Party.
Secured Parties
"" means a mortgage, charge, pledge, lien, encumbrance or other security interest securing any obligation of any person or any other agreement or arrangement having a similar effect (including but not limited to agreements or arrangements for the sale or lease-back of assets, for the sale of receivables on recourse terms, for title retention, under which money or accounts may be applied, set-off or made subject to combination of accounts, or any other preferential arrangement having a similar effect, in circumstances where the agreement or arrangement is entered into primarily as a method of raising or assuring the payment of Financial Indebtedness or of financing the acquisition of an asset).
Security
"" means:
Security Documents
"" means any person who grants or purports to grant Security for the Liabilities for the benefit of the Secured Parties who is not an Obligor.
Security Provider
"" means a time determined in accordance with Schedule 7 ().
Specified Time
Timetables
"" means in relation to a company or corporation, a company or corporation:
Subsidiary
 
"" means any tax, levy, impost, duty or other charge or withholding of a similar nature (including any Indirect Tax or any penalty or interest payable in connection with any failure to pay or any delay in paying any of the same).
Tax
"" means the date which is seven (7) years after the Utilisation Date.
Termination Date
"" means the aggregate of the Commitments, being RM465,000,000 at the date of this Agreement].
Total Commitments
"" means all costs, fees and expenses (and Taxes on them) and all stamp duty, registration and other similar Taxes incurred by or on behalf of the Borrower and the Borrower in connection with the Project or the financing of the Project.
Transaction Costs
"" means the Security created or expressed to be created in favour of the Security Agent for the benefit of the Finance Parties pursuant to the Security Documents.
Transaction Security
"" means a certificate substantially in the form set out in Schedule 4 () or any other form agreed between the Facility Agent and the Borrower.
Transfer Certificate
Form of Transfer Certificate
"" means, in relation to an assignment, transfer or novation, the later of:
Transfer Date
"" means any credit balance on any deposit, savings, current or other account, or any cash in hand, of the Borrower which cannot be applied immediately (or is subject to the termination of time deposit arrangements) for the purpose of repaying the Facility and, in particular, which cannot be upstreamed or transferred to the Borrower which would be able to apply it immediately for the purpose of repaying the Facility without:
Trapped Cash
"" means any sum due and payable but unpaid by an Obligor under the Finance Documents.
Unpaid Sum
"" or "" or "" means the lawful currency for the time being of the United States of America.
US$
U.S.$
US Dollars
"" means generally accepted accounting principles, standards and practices in the United States of America.
US GAAP
"" means the Loan.
Utilisation
 
"" means the date on which the Utilisation is made.
Utilisation Date
"" means a notice substantially in the form set out in Schedule 3 ().
Utilisation Request
Requests
 
 
Subject to the terms of this Agreement the Lenders shall make available to the Borrower a term loan facility in Ringgit Malaysia in an aggregate amount equal to the RM Equivalent of US$150,000,000 on the date of issue of the Utilisation Request, provided that such amount shall not exceed the Total Commitments.
3.2 Monitoring
No Finance Party is bound to monitor or verify the application of any amount borrowed pursuant to this Agreement.
 
The Lenders will only be obliged to comply with Clause 5.4 () in relation to the Utilisation if on or before 11:00 a.m. on the day falling five (5) Business Days prior to the Utilisation Date, the Facility Agent has received all of the documents and other evidence listed in Schedule 2 (), in each case, in form and substance satisfactory to the Facility Agent and the Lenders (acting reasonably). The Facility Agent shall notify the Borrower promptly upon the Facility Agent and the Lenders being so satisfied.
Lenders' participation
Conditions precedent
The Lenders will only be obliged to comply with Clause 5.4 () if on the date of the Utilisation Request and on the proposed Utilisation Date, no Default is continuing or would result from the proposed Loan and the Repeating Representations to be made by each Obligor are true in all material respects.
Lenders' participation
 
The Borrower may utilise the Facility by delivery to the Facility Agent of a duly completed Utilisation Request not later than the Specified Time.
The Commitments which, at that time, are unutilised shall be immediately cancelled at the end of the Availability Period for the Facility.
 
 
 
 
The rate of interest on the Loan for each Interest Period shall, in respect of each participation in the Loan held by a Lender during such Interest Period, be:
 
The Borrower shall have the right to request that any Finance Party that makes a demand under paragraph (a) above, waives the requirement that the Borrower pays Break Costs otherwise payable to that Finance Party and such Finance Party may unilaterally agree (in its absolute discretion) to such request.
If an Interest Period would otherwise end on a day which is not a Business Day, that Interest Period will instead end on the next Business Day in that calendar month (if there is one) or the preceding Business Day (if there is not).
Subject to Clause 10.2 (), if KLIBOR is to be determined by reference to the Reference Banks but a Reference Bank does not supply a quotation by the Specified Time on the Quotation Day, the applicable rate shall be determined on the basis of the quotations of the remaining Reference Banks.
Market disruption
 
 
The Borrower shall pay to the Facility Agent (for its own account) an agency fee in the amount and at the times agreed in a Fee Letter.
The Borrower shall pay to the Security Agent (for its own account) a security agency fee in the amount and at the times agreed in a Fee Letter.
 
"" means a credit against, prepayment for, relief or remission for, or repayment of any Tax.
Tax Credit
"" means a deduction or withholding for or on account of Tax from a payment under a Finance Document.
Tax Deduction
"" means an increased payment made by an Obligor to a Finance Party under Clause 12.2 () or a payment under Clause 12.3 ().
Tax Payment
Tax gross-up
Tax indemnity
"" means a Lender which is treated as a resident of a jurisdiction having a double taxation agreement (a "") with Malaysia which makes provision for full or partial exemption from tax imposed by Malaysia on interest.
Treaty Lender
Treaty
 
if that Tax is imposed on or calculated by reference to the net income received or receivable (but not any sum deemed to be received or receivable) by that Finance Party; or
If an Obligor makes a Tax Payment and the relevant Finance Party reasonably determines in good faith that:
the Finance Party shall pay an amount to the Obligor which that Finance Party determines will leave it (after that payment) in the same after-Tax position as it would have been in had the Tax Payment not been required to be made by the Obligor.
 
The Borrower shall (a) pay and, (b) within five (5) Business Days of demand, indemnify each Finance Party against any cost, loss or liability that Finance Party incurs in relation to all stamp duty, registration and other similar Taxes payable in respect of any Finance Document.
Each Finance Party shall use reasonable endeavours to cooperate with each Obligor to minimize the Taxes of such Obligor and such Finance Party, to the extent commercially practicable, including but not limited to claiming all potential treaty benefits, providing all necessary information to the Obligors as reasonably requested by them that would enable the Obligors to minimize the amount of any Tax Deduction or other Taxes of any kind (provided that the obligation to provide such cooperation shall not require the Finance Party to incur any additional costs or expenses [which are not borne up-front by the Obligors in full] or to expose itself to any potential loss or additional liability for Taxes). In the event any Finance Party fails to reasonably cooperate in such manner, the amount of any Taxes required to be paid or incurred or withheld on payments made by any Obligor to any such Finance Party by reason of such Finance Party's default shall not be treated as a Tax Deduction, and the Tax gross-up provisions of Clause 12.2 () shall not apply to such amount.
Tax gross-up
 
which is incurred or suffered by a Finance Party or any of its Related Corporations to the extent that it is attributable to that Finance Party having entered into its Commitment or funding or performing its obligations under any Finance Document.
that Obligor shall as an independent obligation, within five (5) Business Days of demand, indemnify each Finance Party to whom that Sum is due against any cost, loss or liability arising out of or as a result of the conversion including any discrepancy between (A) the rate of exchange used to convert that Sum from the First Currency into the Second Currency and (B) the rate or rates of exchange available to that person at the time of its receipt of that Sum.
 
The Borrower shall (or shall procure that an Obligor will), within five (5) Business Days of demand, indemnify each Finance Party against any cost, loss or liability incurred by that Finance Party as a result of:
The Borrower shall promptly indemnify each of the Facility Agent and the Security Agent against any cost, loss or liability incurred by the Facility Agent or the Security Agent (acting reasonably) as a result of:
 
Subject to the terms of the Commitment Documents and to the terms of any Fee Letter, the Borrower shall, within 15 Business Days of demand, pay to the Finance Parties the amount of all costs and expenses (including legal fees up to the amount of any agreed cap, to the extent that the assumption (if any) forming the basis for that cap were not breached in any material respect, and out-of-pocket expenses) reasonably incurred by any of them in connection with the negotiation, preparation, printing, execution and syndication of:
If an Obligor requests an amendment to, or a waiver or consent under, a Finance Document, the Borrower shall, within 5 Business Days of demand, reimburse the Finance Parties for the amount of all costs and expenses (including legal fees on a solicitor and client basis) reasonably incurred by the amendment, in responding to, evaluating, negotiating or complying with that request or requirement.
The Borrower shall, within five (5) Business Days of demand, pay to each Finance Party the amount of all costs and expenses (including legal fees) incurred by that Finance Party (acting reasonably prior to an Event of Default) in connection with the enforcement of, or the preservation of any rights under any Finance Document.
The Borrower shall promptly indemnify and hold harmless each Finance Party, each Related Corporation of a Finance Party and each director, officer, employee and agent of a Finance Party or its Related Corporation (each an ""), against any cost, expense, loss or liability incurred by that Indemnified Person in connection with or arising out of the Finance Documents, or the use of the proceeds of the Facility (including but not limited to those incurred in connection with any litigation, arbitration or administrative proceedings or regulatory enquiry concerning the Project), unless such loss or liability is caused by the gross negligence, wilful breach of the terms of the Finance Documents or any confidentiality undertaking given by a Finance Party for the benefit of the Borrower or the wilful misconduct of that Indemnified Person. Any Indemnified Person may rely on this Clause 16.4.
Indemnified Person
 
If any event occurs in respect of which indemnification may be sought from the Borrower, the relevant Indemnified Person shall only be indemnified if it (a) notifies the Borrower in writing within a reasonable time after the relevant Indemnified Person becomes expressly aware (acting reasonably) of such event; (b) (to the extent lawful and commercially appropriate to do so) consults with the Borrower fully and promptly with respect to the conduct of the relevant claim, action or proceeding; (c) conducts such claim, action or proceeding properly and diligently (in each case to the extent permitted by law and without being under any obligation to disclose any information which it is not lawfully permitted to disclose or which it reasonably considers would not be commercially appropriate to disclose); and (d) does not settle any such claim, action or proceeding without the Borrower's prior written consent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld).
 
The Guarantor irrevocably and unconditionally:
This guarantee is a continuing guarantee and will extend to the ultimate balance of sums payable by any Obligor under the Finance Documents, regardless of any intermediate payment or discharge in whole or in part or any increase of the Commitments, and this guarantee constitutes a guarantee of payment and not of collection.
If any discharge, release or arrangement (whether in respect of the obligations of any Obligor or any security for those obligations or otherwise) is made by a Finance Party in whole or in part on the basis of any payment, security or other disposition which is avoided or must be restored in insolvency, liquidation, administration or otherwise, without limitation, then the liability of the Guarantor under this Clause 17 will continue or be reinstated as if the discharge, release or arrangement had not occurred.
The obligations of the Guarantor under this Clause 17 will not be affected by an act, omission, matter or thing which, but for this Clause, would reduce, release or prejudice any of its obligations under this Clause 17 (without limitation and whether or not known to it or any Finance Party) including:
 
The Guarantor waives any right it may have of first requiring any Finance Party (or any trustee or agent on its behalf) to proceed against or enforce any other rights or security or claim payment from any person before claiming from the Guarantor under this Clause 17. This waiver applies irrespective of any law or any provision of a Finance Document to the contrary.
Until all amounts which may be or become payable by the Obligors under or in connection with the Finance Documents have been irrevocably paid in full, each Finance Party (or any trustee or agent on its behalf) may:
 
Until all amounts which may be or become payable by the Obligors under or in connection with the Finance Documents have been irrevocably paid in full and unless the Facility Agent (or, as the case may be, the Security Agent) otherwise directs, the Guarantor will not exercise any rights which it may have by reason of performance by it of its obligations under the Finance Documents or by reason of any amount being payable, or liability arising, under this Clause 17:
If the Guarantor receives any benefit, payment or distribution in relation to such rights it shall hold that benefit, payment or distribution to the extent necessary to enable all amounts which may be or become payable to the Finance Parties by the Obligors under or in connection with the Finance Documents to be repaid in full on trust for the Finance Parties and shall promptly pay or transfer the same to the Facility Agent or as the Facility Agent may direct for application in accordance with Clause 28 ().
Payment mechanics
This guarantee is in addition to and is not in any way prejudiced by any other guarantee or security now or subsequently held by any Finance Party.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the provisions of Clause 17.1 to Clause 17.8 above shall not take effect in relation to the Guarantor, until the expiry of seven (7) Business Days from the due registration of the guarantee to be granted by the Guarantor hereunder, with the Controller of Foreign Exchange, Malaysia. Any certification or determination by the Facility Agent of the date on which such any guarantee granted by the Guarantor takes effect is, in the absence of manifest error, final and conclusive.
 
The Guarantor is a corporation, duly incorporated and validly existing under the laws of the State of Delaware.
The obligations expressed to be assumed by each Obligor in each Finance Document to which such Obligor is or will be (upon its execution thereof) a party are legal, valid, binding, unconditional and enforceable, subject to:
 
have been obtained or effected and are in full force and effect, save for complying with any applicable Perfection Requirements, or will have been obtained or effected and will be in full force and effect before the Utilisation Request.
Subject to any applicable Reservations:
 
Under the law of its Relevant Jurisdictions it is not necessary that the Finance Documents be filed, recorded or enrolled with any court or other authority in that jurisdiction or that any stamp, registration, notarial or similar taxes or fees be paid on or in relation to the Finance Documents or the transactions contemplated by the Finance Documents save in each case for complying with any applicable Perfection Requirements.
It is not required to make any deduction for or on account of Tax from any payment it may make under any Finance Document to a Lender.
The Borrower has not breached any law or regulation applicable to it, which breach has, or would reasonably be expected to have, a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Subject to any applicable Perfection Requirements, each Security Document creates (or, once entered into, will create) in favour of the Security Agent for the benefit of the Finance Parties, the Security which it is expressed to create fully perfected and with the ranking and priority it is expressed to have, except for obligations mandatorily preferred by law applying to companies generally.
 
The Borrower is the absolute legal and beneficial owner of all the assets over which it purports to create Security pursuant to any Security Document, free from any Security other than Permitted Security.
The Borrower has good and marketable title to, or valid leases or licences of, or is otherwise entitled to use all material assets necessary for the conduct of its business as it is being, and is proposed to be, conducted.
The Borrower has:
in each case where failure to do so or such circumstances would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
The Borrower is a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Guarantor.
18.21 Intellectual Property
No: (a) corporate action, legal proceeding or other procedure or step described in Clause 22.7 (); or (b) creditors' process described in Clause 22.8 (), has been taken or, to the knowledge of such Obligor, threatened in writing in relation to it; and none of the circumstances described in Clause 22.6 () applies to it.
Insolvency proceedings
Creditors' process
Insolvency
 
in each case by reference to the facts and circumstances then existing as at such time approved or dated (as applicable).
 
The undertakings in this Clause 19 remain in force from the date of this Agreement for so long as any amount is outstanding under the Finance Documents or any Commitment is in force.
The Borrower shall supply to the Facility Agent in electronic form or in sufficient copies for each Lender as soon as the same becomes available, but in any event within 180 days after the end of each of its Financial Years, the audited annual financial statements for each of itself and the Guarantor, prepared in accordance with IFRS, MASB or US GAAP (as applicable) (commencing with such financial statements for the Financial Year ending 31 December 2010), certified by an authorised signatory of the Borrower or Guarantor (as applicable) as giving a true and fair view of its financial condition as at the end of such Financial Year and of the results of its operations during such Financial Year.
 
Any reference in this Agreement to those financial statements shall be construed as a reference to those financial statements as adjusted to reflect US GAAP or MASB (as applicable).
 
The Borrower and the Guarantor, as applicable, shall supply to the Facility Agent in electronic form or in sufficient copies for each Lender the following documents which are relevant to it:
 
 
obliges the Facility Agent, the Security Agent or any Lender (or, in the case of paragraph (iii) above, any prospective new Lender) to comply with "know your customer" or similar identification procedures in circumstances where the necessary information is not already available to it, each Obligor shall promptly upon the request of the Facility Agent, the Security Agent or any Lender supply, or procure the supply of, such documentation and other evidence as is reasonably requested by the Facility Agent (for itself or on behalf of any Lender or the Security Agent) or any Lender (for itself or, in the case of the event described in paragraph (iii) above, on behalf of any prospective new Lender) in order for the Facility Agent, the Security Agent, such Lender or, in the case of the event described in paragraph (iii) above, any prospective new Lender to carry out and be satisfied it has complied with all necessary "know your customer" or other similar checks under all applicable laws and regulations pursuant to the transactions contemplated in the Finance Documents.
In this Agreement:
"" in respect of any Relevant Date, means the cashflow available for debt service, i.e. the EBITDA for the 12 Months ending on the relevant Relevant Date:-
CFADS
"" in respect of any Relevant Date, means any expenditure (including any reinvestment of disposal proceeds but excluding any replacement of assets out of insurance proceeds) or obligations in respect of expenditure (including any obligation in respect of the capital element of any finance lease, operating lease or capital lease) for the acquisition of equipment, fixed assets, real property, intangible assets and other assets of a capital nature, or for the replacements or substitutions therefore or additions or improvements thereto in each case which would be consistent with the Borrower's accounting policies and in line with US GAAP, together with costs incurred in connection therewith, during the 12 Months ending on the Relevant Date.
Capital Expenditures
 
"", in respect of any Relevant Date, means in respect of the Borrower any due and payable fees, Interest Expense and repayments of principal in respect of any loan granted to the Borrower excluding amounts or principal and interest on loans granted by any member of the Group, during the 12 Months ending on the Relevant Date.
Debt Service
"" in respect of any Relevant Date, means the ratio on the Relevant Date of CFADS to Debt Service.
Debt Service Coverage Ratio
"" in respect of any Relevant Date, means the Borrower's net results plus interest expenses minus interest income plus taxes plus depreciation plus amortization (excluding in each case extraordinary items) plus cash injections during any cure period/grace period of a financial covenant, during the 12 Months ending on the Relevant Date;
EBITDA
"" means, in respect of any Relevant Date, the paid-in capital, ordinary share capital or subscribed capital of the Borrower during the 12 Months ending on the Relevant Date:
Equity
"" includes any other obligation (whatever called) of any person to:-
Guarantee
any obligation (whether present or future, actual or contingent, secured or unsecured, as principal or surety or otherwise) for the payment or repayment of money of any other person.
"" means, in respect of any Relevant Date, the ratio of EBITDA to Interest Expense for the 12 Months ending on the Relevant Date.
Interest Coverage Ratio
"" in respect of any Relevant Date, means in respect of the Borrower the aggregate amount of all interest, commitment fees and any other finance charges paid in cash or capitalized during such period by the Borrower on its borrowings, including:
Interest Expense
 
minus all interest earned, during the 12 months ending on the Relevant Date;
"" means, on any Relevant Date, (a) the amount of Total Debt on such Relevant Date; (b) the amount of Cash and Cash Equivalent Investments held by the Borrower on such Relevant Date.
Net Debt
minus
"" in respect of any Relevant Date, means the ratio on the Relevant Date of (1) the amount of Net Debt to (2) EBITDA;
Net Total Leverage Ratio
"" means each of the dates as at (or to) which a particular financial ratio is being tested, being the Utilisation Date and thereafter on each date falling at quarterly intervals thereafter.
Relevant Date
"" in respect of any Relevant Date, means in respect of the Borrower, an amount equal to:
Tangible Net Worth
"" means in respect of any Relevant Date, all moneys borrowed (including debt incurred under any bill of exchange) of the Borrower plus (to the extent not already included under moneys borrowed)
Total Debt
:
 
The Borrower shall ensure that:
Net Total Leverage Ratio
Interest Coverage Ratio
Total Debt to Equity Ratio
Debt Service Coverage Ratio
Tangible Net Worth
by procuring the provision of New Equity and/or New Loans subordinated in accordance with the provisions of the Finance Documents, to the Borrower. Upon provision of such further equity and subordinated loans respectively the ratios set out in the requirements set out in Clause 20.2 () will be recalculated taking into account such further equity and subordinated loans. Where any such non-compliance with any requirement set out in Clause 20.2 () is cured in accordance with this Clause 20.4, no Default will arise as a consequence of that non-compliance.
Financial condition
Financial condition
 
The undertakings in this Clause 21 remain in force from the date of this Agreement for so long as any amount is outstanding under the Finance Documents or any Commitment is in force.
The Guarantor shall (and the Borrower shall procure that the Guarantor shall) at all times own legally and beneficially, whether directly or indirectly
Each Obligor shall (and the Borrower shall ensure that each Obligor will) promptly obtain, comply with and do all that is necessary to maintain in full force and effect (and, if relevant to the Finance Documents, upon request by the Facility Agent (acting on the instructions of the Majority Lenders) supply certified copies to the Facility Agent of) any material Authorisation required under any applicable law or regulation of a Relevant Jurisdiction to:
if failure to obtain, comply with or maintain any such Authorisation would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
The Borrower shall comply in all respects with all laws and regulations to which it may be subject, if failure so to comply would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
The Borrower shall:
in each case where failure to do so would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
The Borrower shall promptly notify the Facility Agent in writing upon becoming aware of:
 
which would reasonably be expected to be adversely determined and, if so adversely determined, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Restrictions on business focus
Save with the prior written consent of the Facility Agent, the Borrower shall not make a significant change to the general nature of its business which would result in or cause a change in the nature of its business (taken as a whole).
The Borrower shall carry on and conduct its business and the business of its subsidiaries (if any) and affairs with due diligence and efficiency in accordance with sound financial and commercial standard and practices and in accordance with its constitutional documents, to the extent that not doing so will or is reasonably likely to give rise to a Material Adverse Effect.
Restrictions on dealing with assets and Security
The Borrower shall maintain in good working order and condition (ordinary wear and tear excepted) all of its assets subject to Security under the PEM Charge, and all of its other material assets necessary for the conduct of its business as conducted from time to time.
Each Obligor shall ensure that its obligations under the Finance Documents rank at all times at least in right of priority and payment with the claims of all its other unsecured and unsubordinated creditors, except for obligations mandatorily preferred by law applying to companies generally.
pari passu
 
the Lease Agreement which could be expected to be materially adverse to the interests of the Finance Parties under the Finance Documents.
Restrictions on movement of cash  cash out
 
Movement of cash  cash in
Miscellaneous
The Borrower shall maintain insurances on and in relation to its business and material assets with reputable underwriters or insurance companies:
 
procure the registration of the Memorandum of Lease and the NLC Charge with the appropriate Governmental Authority. The Borrower shall promptly and in good faith exercise all such rights and powers, and undertake all such actions, as are available to it to ensure that the Lessor (i) delivers to the Borrower the documents and approvals referred to in sub-clauses (1) and (2) above, and (ii) agrees the form of and executes the Memorandum of Lease relating to the Lease, as soon as reasonably possible after issuance of the issue documents of title in respect of the Leased Lots.
to enable the Security Agent's solicitors to attend to the stamping and presentation for registration of the Lease and the NLC Charge as provided in Clause 21.21(c) below.
 
The Security Agent shall instruct its solicitors (being the party presenting the Memorandum of Lease and the NLC Charge for registration) (i) to facilitate (to the extent lawful for them to do so), such meetings and correspondence between the Borrower or the Borrower's solicitors and the relevant Governmental Authority as may be reasonably requested by the Borrower or its solicitors, and (ii) to keep the Borrower's solicitors duly informed of the status of the application for registration of the Memorandum of Lease and the NLC Charge.
 
The Borrower shall forthwith notify the Facility Agent in writing if it becomes aware of any fact which would or may reasonably cause any Lender to be in contravention of Section 62(1) of the Banking & Financial Institutions Act 1989 or any similar limit or restriction as notified to the Borrower that may be imposed upon any Lender from time to time by Bank Negara Malaysia or other Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over that Lender.
If an Event of Default is continuing or the Facility Agent reasonably suspects an Event of Default is continuing or may occur, each Obligor shall permit the Facility Agent and/or the Security Agent and/or accountants or other professional advisers and contractors of the Facility Agent or Security Agent free access at all reasonable times at the risk and cost of the Borrower to:
in each case for the purpose of investigating any material event or circumstance.
Each of the events or circumstances set out in this Clause 22 is an Event of Default (save for Clause 22.18 () and Clause 22.19 ().
Acceleration
Remedied financial covenant breaches
Any Obligor does not pay on the due date any amount payable pursuant to a Finance Document at the place at and in the currency in which it is expressed to be payable unless:
Subject to Clause 20.4 (), any requirement of Clause 20 () is not satisfied.
Equity cure
Financial covenants
 
Any representation or statement made or deemed to be made by an Obligor in the Finance Documents or any other material document or any material information delivered by or on behalf of any Obligor under or in connection with any Finance Document is or proves to have been incorrect or misleading in any material respect when made or deemed to be made unless the facts or circumstances underlying the misrepresentation are capable of remedy and are remedied within fifteen (15) Business Days of the earlier of (A) the Facility Agent giving notice to the Borrower and (B) any Obligor becoming aware of the misrepresentation.
 
or any analogous procedure or step is taken in any Relevant Jurisdiction in respect of an Obligor.
 
The Borrower suspends or ceases to carry on (or threatens to suspend or cease to carry on) all or a material part of its business. For the purposes of this Clause 22.11, a part of the Borrower's business shall be deemed to be a material part of its business where the cessation or suspension of such part has, will have or could reasonably be expected to have, a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Any party (other than a Finance Party) to a Finance Document repudiates or rescinds a Finance Document or evidences an intention to repudiate or rescind a Finance Document where to do so has or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on the interests of the Finance Parties under the Finance Documents.
The Majority Lenders determine that a Material Adverse Effect has occurred or might reasonably be expected to occur.
Any material Authorisations which are required for or in connection with or necessary for the conduct of the Borrower's business or the Project are withdrawn, cancelled, revoked, suspended or fail to be renewed, and such event has or is, in the reasonable opinion of the Facility Agent likely to have a Material Adverse Effect on the interests of the Finance Parties under the Finance Documents.
On and at any time after the occurrence of an Event of Default which is continuing, the Facility Agent may, and shall if so directed by the Majority Lenders, by notice to the Borrower:
No Event of Default under Clause 22.2 shall occur if the Borrower has cured the non-compliance of Clause 20.2 in accordance with the provisions of Clause 20.4.
 
Subject to this Clause 23, a Lender (the "") may:
Existing Lender
to any licensed financial institution or, to the extent permitted by law, to a trust, fund or other entity which is regularly engaged in or established for the purpose of making, purchasing or investing in loans, securities or other financial assets (the ""), provided always that for so long as no Enforcement Event has occurred, (i) such New Lender has obtained the benefit of a letter of undertaking or similar agreement with the Government of Malaysia in relation to the Loan, and (ii) the Borrower shall not be required to bear any additional borrowing costs or Taxes or to pay to the New Lender interest at a rate higher than the rate payable to the Existing Lender prior to such assignment or transfer, by reason solely of the assignment or transfer to the New Lender.
New Lender
 
then the New Lender or Lender acting through its new Facility Office is only entitled to receive payment under those Clauses to the same extent as the Existing Lender or Lender acting through its previous Facility Office would have been if the assignment, transfer or change had not occurred.
Unless the Facility Agent otherwise agrees and excluding an assignment or transfer (i) to another Lender or (ii) to a Related Corporation of a Lender or (iii) made pursuant to the Syndication, the New Lender shall, on the date upon which an assignment or transfer takes effect, pay to the Facility Agent (for its own account) a fee of RM1,000 (or its equivalent in another currency or currencies).
and any representations or warranties implied by law are excluded.
 
 
The Facility Agent shall, as soon as reasonably practicable after it has executed a Transfer Certificate or an Assignment Agreement, send to the Borrower a copy of that Transfer Certificate, or Assignment Agreement.
In addition to the other rights provided to Lenders under this Clause 23, each Lender may upon prior written notice to the Obligors, at any time charge, assign or otherwise create Security in or over (whether by way of collateral or otherwise) all or any of its rights under any Finance Document to secure obligations of that Lender including, without limitation:
 
except that no such charge, assignment or Security shall:
If the Facility Agent has notified the Lenders that it is able to distribute interest payments on a "pro rata basis" to Existing Lenders and New Lenders then (in respect of any transfer pursuant to Clause 23.5 () or any assignment pursuant to Clause 23.6 () the Transfer Date of which, in each case, is after the date of such notification and is not on the last day of an Interest Period):
Procedure for transfer
Procedure for assignment
 
Save with the prior written consent of the Facility Agent, no Obligor may assign any of its rights or transfer any of its rights or obligations under the Finance Documents.
 
25.
ROLE OF THE FACILITY AGENT, THE SECURITY AGENT AND THE ARRANGERS
25.1 Appointment of the Facility Agent and the Security Agent
 
Except as specifically provided in the Finance Documents, none of the Arrangers has any obligations of any kind to any other Party under or in connection with any Finance Document.
Despite anything to the contrary expressed or implied in this Agreement, none of the Finance Parties shall:
 
The Security Agent shall not be an agent of (except as expressly provided in any Finance Document) any Finance Party under or in connection with any Finance Document.
 
The Facility Agent, the Security Agent and each of the Arrangers may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of banking or other business with any member of the Group.
 
 
Neither the Facility Agent, any Arranger nor the Security Agent:
 
 
unless it has received not less than five (5) Business Days' prior notice from that Lender to the contrary in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
 
 
If a Reference Bank (or, if a Reference Bank is not a Lender, the Lender of which it is a Related Corporation) ceases to be a Lender, the Facility Agent shall (in consultation with the Borrower) appoint another Lender or a Related Corporation of a Lender or any bank approved by the Majority Lenders to replace that Reference Bank. If a Reference Bank ceases generally to offer quotations for KLIBOR, the Facility Agent shall (in consultation with the Borrower) appoint another bank or financial institution approved by the Majority Lenders to replace that Reference Bank.
If any Party owes an amount to the Facility Agent under the Finance Documents the Facility Agent may, after giving notice to that Party, deduct an amount not exceeding that amount from any payment to that Party which the Facility Agent would otherwise be obliged to make under the Finance Documents and apply the amount deducted in or towards satisfaction of the amount owed. For the purposes of the Finance Documents that Party shall be regarded as having received any amount so deducted.
The provisions of Schedule 9 () shall bind each Party.
Security Agency provisions
Each Finance Party accepts no responsibility to any other Finance Party for the accuracy and/or completeness of any information supplied in connection with any Finance Document or for the legality, validity, effectiveness, adequacy or enforceability of any Finance Document and a Finance Party shall be under no liability to any other Finance Party as a result of taking or omitting to take any action in relation to any Finance Document (except in the case of its gross negligence or wilful misconduct of such Finance Party (as the case may be)).
Each of the Finance Parties agrees that it will not assert or seek to assert against any director, officer or employee of any other Finance Party any claim it may have against any of them in respect of the matters referred to in this Clause 25 and such directors, officers or employees may rely on this Clause.
No provision of this Agreement will:
 
If a Finance Party (a "") receives or recovers any amount from an Obligor other than in accordance with Clause 28 () (a "") and applies that amount to a payment due under the Finance Documents then:
Recovering Finance Party
Payment mechanics
Recovered Amount
The Facility Agent shall treat the Sharing Payment as if it had been paid by the relevant Obligor and distribute it between the Finance Parties (other than the Recovering Finance Party) (the "") in accordance with Clause 28.5 () towards the obligations of that Obligor to the Sharing Finance Parties.
Sharing Finance Parties
Partial payments
If any part of the Sharing Payment received or recovered by a Recovering Finance Party becomes repayable and is repaid by that Recovering Finance Party, then:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
such Confidential Information as that Finance Party shall reasonably consider appropriate, provided that:-
 
 
This Agreement has been entered into on the date stated at the beginning of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
4.
Financial information
 
 
Dated:
Dear Sirs
 
Dated:
 
This Transfer Certificate is acknowledged by the Facility Agent and the Transfer Date is confirmed as [].
                    
[Facility Agent]
By:
[Note: It is the New Lender's responsibility to ascertain whether any other document is required, or any formality or other condition must be satisfied, to effect or perfect the transfer contemplated in this Transfer Certificate or to give the New Lender full enjoyment of the benefit of all the Finance Documents. In particular, it is the New Lender's responsibility to ensure that it has obtained the benefit of a letter of undertaking or similar agreement with the Government of Malaysia in relation to the Loan]
 
Dated:
 
This Assignment Agreement is acknowledged by the Facility Agent and the Transfer Date is confirmed as [].
                    
Signature of this Assignment Agreement by the Facility Agent constitutes confirmation by the Facility Agent of receipt of notice of the assignment referred to herein, which notice the Facility Agent receives on behalf of each Finance Party.
[Facility Agent]
By:
[Note: It is the New Lender's responsibility to ascertain whether any other document is required, or any formality or other condition must be satisfied, to effect or perfect the assignment contemplated in this Assignment Agreement or to give the New Lender full enjoyment of the benefit of all of the Finance Documents. In particular, it is the New Lender's responsibility to ensure that it has obtained the benefit of a letter of undertaking or similar agreement with the Government of Malaysia in relation to the Loan.]
 
Dated:
Dear Sirs
We refer to the Agreement. This is a Compliance Certificate. Terms defined in the Agreement have the same meaning when used in this Compliance Certificate unless given a different meaning in this Compliance Certificate.
[[]
insert applicable certification language
 
for and on behalf of
[]]**
name of auditors of
                    
 
 
"D  " refers to the number of Business Days before the Utilisation Date.
 
 
 
 
The Borrower
First Solar Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.
The Guarantor
First Solar, Inc.
 
The Arrangers
CIMB Investment Bank Berhad
Maybank Investment Bank Berhad
RHB Investment Bank Berhad
 
The Original Lenders
CIMB Bank Berhad
Malayan Banking Berhad
RHB Bank Berhad
 
The Facility Agent
CIMB Investment Bank Berhad
The Security Agent
CIMB Investment Bank Berhad


