FILE:FSLR/FSLR-8K-20120503161400.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
On May 3, 2012, First Solar, Inc. is issuing a press release and holding a conference call regarding its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
The information in this Form 8-K and in Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liability of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Table of Contents
(d) Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
First Solar, Inc. Announces First Quarter 2012 Financial Results
Net sales of $497 million
GAAP EPS loss of $5.20 per fully diluted share after charges of $5.12 per share
Non-GAAP EPS loss of $0.08 per fully diluted share
Raises 2012 guidance for EPS and operating cash flow
 First Solar, Inc. (Nasdaq: FSLR) today announced financial results for the first quarter of 2012. Net sales were $497 million in the quarter, a decrease of $163 million from the fourth quarter of 2011, primarily due to lower volumes for module-only sales, and $70 million below the first quarter of 2011, primarily due to lower average selling prices and lower volumes for module-only sales, which was partially offset by higher systems revenue.
TEMPE, Ariz., May 3, 2012
The Company reported a first quarter net loss of $5.20 per fully diluted share, compared to a net loss of $4.78 per fully diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2011 and net income of $1.33 per fully diluted share in the first quarter of 2011. The first quarter of 2012 was impacted by pre-tax charges consisting of (i) $401 million (reducing EPS by $4.64) related to previously-announced restructuring actions, including asset impairments, and (ii) $43 million (reducing EPS by $0.48) related to costs in excess of normal warranty expense associated with our previously announced 2008 to 2009 manufacturing excursion, including approximately $31 million in accruals which reflect the completion of processing for all remaining claims during the first quarter.
The non-GAAP net loss per fully diluted share, which excludes the charges listed above, was $0.08 for the first quarter. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to measures presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. ("GAAP"), see the tables below.
Cash and Marketable Securities at the end of the first quarter were $750 million, down from $788 million at the end of the fourth quarter of 2011.
Based on reductions in First Solar's ongoing cost structure related to our restructuring initiatives, the Company is increasing 2012 guidance as follows:
 
 
"First Solar's performance in the quarter was impacted by an aggressive competitive environment resulting from persistent supply-demand imbalances in the market, as well as restructuring costs that will improve our operating efficiency and help position us for the future," said Mike Ahearn, Chairman of the Board. "Looking forward, we are confident we have the right long-term strategy and the right platform to enable long-term growth and value creation. We believe that by executing our strategic roadmaps and completing our restructuring program we can achieve our targets of 2.6 to 3.0 GW of sales in sustainable markets, earning a return on invested capital of 13 to 17 percent by 2016."
First Solar has scheduled a conference call today, May 3, 2012 at 4 30 p.m. EDT to discuss this announcement and its five-year plan. Investors may access a live webcast of this conference call by visiting .
http://investor.firstsolar.com/events.cfm
An audio replay of the conference call will also be available approximately two hours after the conclusion of the call. The audio replay will remain available until Thursday, May 10, 2012 at midnight EDT and can be accessed by dialing 888-203-1112 if you are calling from within the United States or +1-719-457-0820 if you are calling from outside the United States and entering the replay pass code 3703847. A replay of the webcast will be available on the Investors section of the company's web site approximately two hours after the conclusion of the call and remain available for approximately 90 calendar days.
About First Solar, Inc.
First Solar is a leading global provider of comprehensive photovoltaic (PV) solar systems which use its advanced thin-film modules. The company's integrated power plant solutions deliver an economically attractive alternative to fossil-fuel electricity generation today. From raw material sourcing through end-of-life module collection and recycling, First Solar's renewable energy systems protect and enhance the environment. For more information about First Solar, please visit www.firstsolar.com.
For First Solar Investors
This release contains forward-looking statements which are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The forward-looking statements in this release do not constitute guarantees of future performance. Those statements involve a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including risks associated with the company's business involving the company's products, their development and distribution, economic and competitive factors and the company's key strategic relationships and other risks detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. First Solar assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking information contained in this press release or with respect to the announcements described herein.
Contacts
Investors
David Brady
dbrady@firstsolar.com
Luke Fairborn
lucas.fairborn@firstsolar.com
Michelle Pereira
michelle.pereira@firstsolar.com
+1 (602) 414-9315
Media
Ted Meyer
+1 (602) 427-3318
ted.meyer@firstsolar.com
SOURCE: First Solar, Inc.
 
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The non-GAAP financial measures included in the tables below are non-GAAP net (loss) income and non-GAAP net (loss) income per share, which adjust for the following items: Warranty and Cost in Excess of Normal Warranty Expense, and Restructuring. We believe the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures, when taken together with the corresponding GAAP financial measures, provides meaningful supplemental information regarding the Company's operating performance. Our management uses these non-GAAP financial measures in assessing the Company's performance to prior periods and investors benefit from an understanding of these non-GAAP financial measures. The use of non-GAAP financial measures has limitations and you should not consider these performance measures in isolation from or as an alternative to measures presented in accordance with GAAP such as net (loss) income and net (loss) income per share.
Included in our GAAP presentation of cost of sales and operating expenses, warranty and cost in excess of normal warranty expense primarily reflect estimated costs related to our remediation of a manufacturing excursion that occurred between June 2008 and June 2009. We exclude this expense from our non-GAAP measures because we do not believe they reflect expected future costs.
Warranty and Cost in Excess of Normal Warranty Expense:
Included in our GAAP presentation of operating expenses, restructuring costs represent asset impairment and related costs and severance and termination related costs primarily due to a series of restructuring initiatives intended to align the organization with our long-term strategic plan including expected sustainable market opportunities and to reduce costs. We exclude restructuring from our non-GAAP measures because the asset impairment portion of the charges does not reflect our cash position or our cash flows from operating activities, and the restructuring charges overall do not reflect future operating expenses, are not indicative of our core operating performance, and are not meaningful in comparing to our past operating performance.
Restructuring:
 
 


