FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20031124165924.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Acquisition or disposition of assets	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Acquisition or disposition of assets
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
[Conformed copy]
Registrant's telephone number, including area code (847) 484-4400
Table of Contents
Item 2. Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
On October 31, 2003, Fortune Brands Home & Hardware, Inc. ("FO Home & Hardware"), a subsidiary of Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO), and TDC Acquisition Company, Inc., a subsidiary of FO Home & Hardware, entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") for the purpose of acquiring Therma-Tru Holdings, Inc. ("Therma-Tru"). Therma-Tru is the parent corporation of Therma-Tru Corp., a leading manufacturer of residential entry doors in the United States. On November 10, 2003, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, TDC Acquisition Company, Inc. was merged with and into Therma-Tru with Therma-Tru as the surviving corporation. As a result, Therma-Tru became a wholly owned subsidiary of FO Home & Hardware.
The aggregate purchase price paid by FO Home & Hardware for Therma-Tru was approximately $925 million in cash and was arrived at by arms length negotiations between the parties. The shareholders and warrant holders of Therma-Tru received a pro-rata portion of the aggregate purchase price, less $32 million to be held in escrow to secure the shareholders' indemnification obligations to FO Home & Hardware under the Merger Agreement and a $10 million escrow to satisfy certain purchase price adjustments.
The foregoing description of the transaction between Registrant, FO Home & Hardware, TDC Acquisition Company, Inc. and Therma-Tru is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Agreement and Plan of Merger attached as Exhibit 2.
To pay the purchase price, the Registrant used proceeds from the sale of approximately $925 million in commercial paper.
Registrant is not aware of any material relationship between Therma-Tru Holdings, Inc. and Registrant or any of its affiliates, directors or officers of Registrant or any associate of any such director or officer that existed at the date of the acquisition of Therma-Tru Holdings, Inc. by FO Home & Hardware.
Item 5. Other Events
On November 20, 2003, the Registrant issued and sold $300 million aggregate principal amount of 2 7/8% Notes due 2006 and $300 million aggregate principal amount of 4 7/8% Notes due 2013 (the "Notes") in an underwritten public offering. Reference is made to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration Nos. 333-76371 and 33-50832) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the related Prospectus dated September 3, 1999, as supplemented by the Prospectus Supplement dated November 13, 2003, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The representatives of the underwriters in respect of the offering were Barclays Capital Inc., Credit Suisse First Boston LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. JPMorgan Chase Bank is the Trustee under the Indenture under which the Notes were issued. The aggregate net proceeds of the offering, after underwriting commissions and estimated expenses, were
Table of Contents
$595,189,000. The Registrant used the net proceeds of the offering to refinance a portion of its commercial paper borrowings.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     SIGNATURE
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this Current Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 24, 2003
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 1
November 13, 2003
Fortune Brands, Inc. 300 Tower Parkway Lincolnshire, Illinois 60069
Dear Sirs:
               We (the "Manager") understand that Fortune Brands, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 2 7/8% Notes due 2006 (the "2006 Notes") and $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 4 7/8% Notes due 2013 (the "2013 Notes" and collectively with the 2006 Notes, the "Debt Securities" or the "Offered Securities"). Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein or incorporated by reference herein, the Company hereby agrees to sell and the underwriters named below (the "Underwriters") agree to purchase $300,000,000 principal amount of the 2006 Notes at 99.563% of the principal amount of such 2006 Notes and accrued interest from November 20, 2003, if any, to the date of payment and delivery and $300,000,000 principal amount of the 2013 Notes at 99.050% of the principal amount of such 2013 Notes and accrued interest from November 20, 2003, if any, to the date of payment and delivery.
               Upon delivery of such Offered Securities, the Underwriters will pay for such Offered Securities at a closing to be held at the offices of Chadbourne & Parke LLP, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, New York 10112 at 10:00 a.m. (New York time) on November 20, 2003, or at such other time, not later than November 26, 2003, as shall be designated by the Manager.
 
               The 2006 Notes shall have the following terms:
               The 2013 Notes shall have the following terms:
 
 
               All the provisions (other than the provisions of Article VII) contained in the document entitled Fortune Brands, Inc. Underwriting Agreement Standard Provisions (Debt Securities and Warrants to Purchase Debt Securities) dated November 13, 2003, a copy of which you have previously received, are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Agreement to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein. The term "Manager" as used therein shall mean Barclays Capital Inc., Credit Suisse First Boston LLC and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., whose authority thereunder may be exercised by them jointly.
               For themselves and on behalf of the several underwriters named above.
 
November 13, 2003
 
               From time to time, FORTUNE BRANDS, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), may enter into one or more underwriting agreements that provide for the sale of designated securities to the several underwriters named therein. The standard provisions set forth herein may be incorporated by reference in any such underwriting agreement (an "Underwriting Agreement"). The Underwriting Agreement, including the provisions incorporated therein by reference, is herein referred to as this Agreement. Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Underwriting Agreement are used herein as therein defined.
               The Company proposes to issue and sell from time to time certain of (a) its debt securities (the "Debt Securities") to be issued pursuant to the provisions of an Indenture dated as of April 15, 1999, as supplemented (the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A., as Trustee (the "Trustee") and (b) its Warrants (the "Debt Warrants") to purchase Debt Securities (such Debt Securities to be purchasable through the exercise of Debt Warrants being referred to herein as the "Debt Warrant Securities") to be evidenced by warrant certificates (the "Warrant Certificates") and to be issued pursuant to the provisions of the Debt Warrant Agreement identified in the Underwriting Agreement. The Debt Securities may be convertible into Common Stock, par value $3.125 per share, of the Company ("Common Stock") as provided in or pursuant to the Indenture, and Preferred Share Purchase Rights (the "Rights") may be delivered with Common Stock upon conversion of any convertible Debt Securities. The Debt Securities and Debt Warrants to be sold pursuant to this Agreement, but not the Debt Warrant Securities or the Common Stock or Rights, if any, issuable or deliverable upon conversion of any convertible Debt Securities, are collectively referred to herein as the "Offered Securities". The Debt Securities and Debt Warrants will have or be of varying designations, maturities, rates and times of payment of interest, selling prices, exercise prices, conversion prices, expiration dates, redemption terms, currencies and other terms.
               The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") registration statements relating to the Debt Securities and Debt Warrants and the shares of Common Stock and Rights, if any, issuable or deliverable upon conversion of any convertible Debt Securities, has filed such amendments thereto as may have been required to the date of the Underwriting Agreement and has filed with, or mailed for filing to, or shall promptly hereafter file with or mail for filing to, the Commission a prospectus supplement specifically relating to the Offered Securities and the Debt Warrant Securities, if any, pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act of 1933. The term "Registration Statement" means such registration statements as amended to the date of the Underwriting Agreement. The term "Basic Prospectus" means the prospectus included in the Registration Statement relating to the Debt Securities and the Debt Warrants, as updated from time to time. The term "Prospectus" means the Basic Prospectus together with the prospectus supplement specifically relating to the Offered
 
Securities and the Debt Warrant Securities, if any, as filed with, or mailed for filing to, or as shall promptly hereafter be filed with or mailed for filing to, the Commission pursuant to such Rule 424. The term "preliminary prospectus" means a preliminary prospectus supplement specifically relating to the Offered Securities and the Debt Warrant Securities, if any, together with the Basic Prospectus. As used herein, the terms "Registration Statement", "Basic Prospectus", "Prospectus" and "preliminary prospectus" shall include in each case the material, if any, incorporated by reference therein.
               The term "Underwriters' Securities" means the Offered Securities to be purchased by the Underwriters herein. The term "Contract Securities" means the Offered Securities, if any, to be purchased pursuant to the delayed delivery contracts referred to below.
               If the Prospectus provides for sales of Offered Securities pursuant to delayed delivery contracts, the Company hereby authorizes the Underwriters to solicit offers to purchase Contract Securities on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Prospectus pursuant to delayed delivery contracts substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto ("Delayed Delivery Contracts") but with such changes therein as the Company may authorize or approve. Delayed Delivery Contracts are to be with institutional investors approved by the Company and of the types set forth in the Prospectus. On the Closing Date (as hereinafter defined), the Company will pay the Manager as compensation, for the accounts of the Underwriters, the fee set forth in the Underwriting Agreement in respect of the principal amount and number of Contract Securities. The Underwriters will not have any responsibility in respect of the validity or the performance of Delayed Delivery Contracts.
               If the Company executes and delivers Delayed Delivery Contracts with institutional investors, the principal amount and number of Contract Securities shall be deducted from the principal amount and number of Offered Securities to be purchased by the several Underwriters and the aggregate principal amount or number of Offered Securities to be purchased by each Underwriter shall be reduced pro rata in proportion to the principal amount or number, as the case may be, of Offered Securities set forth opposite each Underwriter's name in the Underwriting Agreement, except to the extent that the Manager determines that such reduction shall be otherwise and so advises the Company.
               The Company is advised by the Manager that the Underwriters propose to make a public offering of their respective portions of the Underwriters' Securities as soon after this Agreement is entered into as in the Manager's judgment is advisable. The terms of the public offering of the Underwriters' Securities are set forth in the Prospectus.
 
               Except as otherwise provided in this Article IV, payment for the Underwriters' Securities shall be made by wire transfer to an account designated by the Company in immediately available funds at the time, on the date and at the place set forth in the Underwriting Agreement, upon delivery to the Manager for the respective accounts of the several Underwriters of the Underwriters' Securities (other than Debt Securities in registered global form) registered in such names and in such denominations as the Manager shall request in writing not less than two full business days prior to the date of delivery and, in the case of Underwriters' Securities that are Debt Securities in registered global form, upon delivery to the Depositary identified in the Underwriting Agreement of a single global Debt Security certificate, registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee thereof, for credit to the respective accounts of the Depositary participants. The time and date of such payment and delivery with respect to the Underwriters' Securities are herein referred to as the Closing Date.
               Delivery of any Underwriters' Securities that are (i) Debt Securities in bearer form on the Closing Date shall be initially effected by delivery of a single temporary global Debt Security without coupons (the "Global Debt Security") evidencing the Offered Securities that are Debt Securities in bearer form and (ii) Debt Warrants in bearer form shall be effected only by delivery of a single permanent global Debt Warrant (the "Global Debt Warrant") evidencing the Offered Securities that are Debt Warrants in bearer form, in each case to a common depositary for Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, Brussels office, as operator of the Euro-clear System ("Euro-clear"), and for Centrale de Livraison de Valeurs Mobilieres S.A. ("CEDEL") for credit to the respective accounts at Euro-clear or CEDEL of each Underwriter or such other accounts as each Underwriter may direct. Any Global Debt Security or Global Debt Warrant shall be delivered to the Manager not later than the Closing Date, against payment of funds to the Company in the net amount due to the Company for such Global Debt Security or Global Debt Warrant, as the case may be, by the method and in the form set forth herein. The Company shall cause definitive Debt Securities in bearer form to be prepared and delivered in exchange for such Global Debt Security in such manner and at such time as may be provided in or pursuant to the Indenture; provided, however, that the Global Debt Security shall be exchangeable for definitive Debt Securities in bearer form only on or after the date specified for such purpose in the Prospectus. The Offered Debt Warrants shall be evidenced only by a Global Debt Warrant until their expiration.
               The several obligations of the Underwriters hereunder are subject to the following conditions:
 
               In further consideration of the agreements of the Underwriters contained in this Agreement, the Company covenants as follows:
 
               Each of the several Underwriters agrees with the Company that:
 
If Underwriters' Securities that are Debt Securities are to be distributed through a selling group consisting of banks, brokers or dealers, the Manager agrees that it shall cause each member of such selling group to enter into an agreement that it will comply with this paragraph. Terms used in this paragraph have the meanings given to them by the applicable provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereunder, including the D Rules.
               Each of the several Underwriters further agrees with the Company that:
 
If Underwriters' Securities that are Debt Warrants are to be distributed through a selling group consisting of banks, brokers or dealers, the Manager agrees that it shall cause each member of such selling group to enter into an agreement that it will comply with this paragraph. Terms used in this paragraph have the meanings given to them by the applicable provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereunder, including the D Rules.
               The Company represents and warrants to each Underwriter that (i) each document, if any, filed or to be filed pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and incorporated by reference in the Prospectus complied or will comply when so filed in all material respects with such Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, (ii) each part of the registration statement (including the documents incorporated by reference therein),
 
filed with the Commission pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933 relating to the Debt Securities and Debt Warrants when such part became effective, did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, (iii) each preliminary prospectus, if any, filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act of 1933 complied when so filed in all material respects with such Act and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder, (iv) the Registration Statement and the Prospectus comply and, as amended or supplemented, if applicable, will comply in all material respects with the Securities Act of 1933 and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder and (v) the Registration Statement and the Prospectus do not contain and, as amended or supplemented, if applicable, will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; except that these representations and warranties do not apply to (a) statements or omissions in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus based upon information furnished to the Company in writing by any Underwriter expressly for use therein and (b) those parts of the Registration Statement which constitute the Statement of Eligibility under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 on Form T-1 of the Trustee.
               The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls such Underwriter within the meaning of either Section 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 or Section 20 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities caused by any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (if used within the period set forth in paragraph (c) of Article VI hereof and as amended or supplemented if the Company shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto), or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities are caused by any such untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission based upon information furnished in writing to the Company by any Underwriter expressly for use therein; provided, however, that the foregoing indemnity with respect to preliminary prospectuses shall not inure to the benefit of any Underwriter (or to the benefit of any person controlling such Underwriter) from whom the person asserting any such losses, claims, damages or liabilities purchased Offered Securities if a copy of the Prospectus or the Prospectus as then amended or supplemented (if the Prospectus has been amended or supplemented prior to the written confirmation of the sale of such Offered Securities to such person) had not been sent or given to such person at or prior to such written confirmation and the untrue statement or omission of a material fact contained in such preliminary prospectus was corrected in such Prospectus or Prospectus as amended or supplemented, as the case may be.
               Each Underwriter agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors, its officers who sign the Registration Statement and any person controlling the
 
Company to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to each Underwriter, but only with reference to information relating to such Underwriter furnished in writing by such Underwriter expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus.
               In case any proceeding (including any governmental investigation) shall be instituted involving any person in respect of which indemnity may be sought pursuant to either of the two preceding paragraphs, such person (the "indemnified party") shall promptly notify the person against whom such indemnity may be sought (the "indemnifying party") in writing and the indemnifying party, upon request of the indemnified party, shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party and any others the indemnifying party may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and disbursements of such counsel related to such proceeding. In any such proceeding, any indemnified party shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party unless (i) the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have mutually agreed to the retention of such counsel or (ii) the named parties to any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the indemnifying party and the indemnified party and the representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them. It is understood that the indemnifying party shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceedings in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the reasonable fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to local counsel) for all such indemnified parties, and that all such fees shall be reimbursed as they are incurred. Such firm shall be designated in writing by the Manager in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to the second preceding paragraph and by the Company in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to the first preceding paragraph. The indemnifying party shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment.
               If the indemnification provided for in this Article VIII is unavailable to an indemnified party under the second or third paragraphs hereof or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each indemnifying party, in lieu of indemnifying such indemnified party, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect (i) the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Offered Securities and (ii) the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other in connection with the offering of the Offered
 
Securities shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from the offering of such Offered Securities (before deducting expenses) received by the Company bear to the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters in respect thereof. The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
               The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Article VIII were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the considerations referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph. The amount paid or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article VIII, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Offered Securities underwritten and distributed to the public by such Underwriter were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act of 1933) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Article VIII are several, in proportion to the respective principal amount or number, as the case may be, of Offered Securities purchased by each of such Underwriters, and not joint.
               The indemnity and contribution agreements contained in this Article VIII and the representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any termination of this Agreement, (ii) any investigation made by any Underwriter or on behalf of any Underwriter or any person controlling any Underwriter or by or on behalf of the Company, its directors or officers or any person controlling the Company and (iii) acceptance of and payment for any of the Offered Securities.
               This Agreement may be terminated in the absolute discretion of the Manager, by notice to the Company, if after the execution and delivery of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date (i) trading generally shall have been suspended or materially limited on the New York Stock Exchange; (ii) trading of any securities issued by the Company
 
shall have been suspended on any exchange or in any over-the-counter market; (iii) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities shall have been declared by federal or New York State authorities; (iv) a material disruption of the settlement or clearance of debt securities in the United States shall occur and continue until at least the business day preceding the Closing Date or (v) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities or any change in financial markets or any calamity or crisis, either within or outside the United States, that, in the reasonable judgment of the Manager, is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offer, sale or delivery of the Offered Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated by this Agreement and the Prospectus.
               If any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Underwriters' Securities which it or they have agreed to purchase pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, and the aggregate amount of Underwriters' Securities which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase is not more than one-tenth of the aggregate amount of the Underwriters' Securities, the other Underwriters shall be obligated severally in the proportions which the amounts of Underwriters' Securities set forth opposite their names in the Underwriting Agreement bear to the aggregate amount of Underwriters' Securities set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as the Manager may specify, to purchase the Underwriters' Securities which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase; provided that in no event shall the amount of Underwriters' Securities which any Underwriter has agreed to purchase pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement be increased pursuant to this Article X by an amount in excess of one-ninth of such amount of Underwriters' Securities without the written consent of such Underwriter. If any Underwriter or Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Underwriters' Securities and the aggregate amount of Underwriters' Securities with respect to which such default occurs is more than one-tenth of the aggregate amount of the Underwriters' Securities and arrangements satisfactory to the Manager and the Company for the purchase of such Underwriters' Securities, are not made within 36 hours after such default, this Agreement, or the provisions hereof applicable to the sale and purchase of the Underwriters' Securities, will terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter or of the Company. In any such case either the Manager or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, but in no event for longer than seven days, in order that the required changes, if any, in the Registration Statement and in the Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements may be effected. Any action taken under this paragraph shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under the Underwriting Agreement.
               If this Agreement shall be terminated by the Underwriters or any of them, because of any failure or refusal on the part of the Company to comply with the terms or
 
to fulfill any of the conditions of this Agreement, or if for any reason the Company shall be unable to perform its obligations under this Agreement, the Company will reimburse the Underwriters or such Underwriters as have so terminated this Agreement, with respect to themselves, severally, for all out-of-pocket expenses (including the fees and disbursements of their counsel) reasonably incurred by such Underwriters in connection with the Offered Securities.
               This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.
               This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of New York.
 
Exhibit A
, 2003
Fortune Brands, Inc. 300 Tower Parkway Lincolnshire, Illinois 60069
Dear Sirs:
               The undersigned hereby agrees to purchase from FORTUNE BRANDS, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and the Company agrees to sell to the undersigned the Company's securities described in Schedule I annexed hereto (the "Securities"), offered by the Company's Prospectus dated                    , 2003 and Prospectus Supplement dated                    , 2003 , receipt of copies of which is hereby acknowledged, at the purchase price stated in Schedule I and on the further terms and conditions set forth in this contract. The undersigned does not contemplate selling Securities prior to making payment therefor.
               The undersigned will purchase from the Company Securities in the principal amounts and number on the delivery dates as set forth in Schedule I. Each such date on which Securities are to be purchased hereunder is hereinafter referred to as a "Delivery Date".
               Payment for the Securities which the undersigned has agreed to purchase on each Delivery Date shall be made to the Company or its order by wire transfer to an account designated by the Company in immediately available funds, at 10:00 A.M. (New York time) on the Delivery Date, upon delivery to the undersigned of the Securities to be purchased by the undersigned on the Delivery Date, in such denominations and registered in such names as the undersigned may designate by written or telegraphic communication addressed to the Company not less than five full business days prior to the Delivery Date, except that payment for any Securities that are Debt Securities in registered global form or Foreign Currency Warrants in registered global form shall be so made on the Delivery Date upon delivery to the Depositary named in the Prospectus Supplement referred to above of a single global Debt Security or a single global Foreign Currency Warrant certificate, as the case may be, registered in the name of such Depositary or a nominee
 
thereof, for credit to the account of such Depositary participant as the undersigned may so designate.
               The obligation of the undersigned to take delivery of and make payment for the Securities on the Delivery Date shall be subject to the conditions that (1) the purchase of Securities to be made by the undersigned shall not at the time of delivery be prohibited under the laws of the jurisdiction to which the undersigned is subject and (2) the Company shall have sold, and delivery shall have taken place to the underwriters (the "Underwriters") named in the Prospectus Supplement referred to above of, such part of the Securities as is to be sold to them. Promptly after completion of sale and delivery to the Underwriters, the Company will mail or deliver to the undersigned at its address set forth below notice to such effect, accompanied by a copy of the opinion of counsel for the Company delivered to the Underwriters in connection therewith.
               Failure to take delivery of and make payment for Securities by any purchaser under any other Delayed Delivery Contract shall not relieve the undersigned of its obligations under this contract.
               This contract will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors, but will not be assignable by either party hereto without the written consent of the other.
               If this contract is acceptable to the Company, it is requested that the Company sign the form of acceptance below and mail or deliver one of the counterparts hereof to the undersigned at its address set forth below. This will become a binding contract, as of the date first above written, between the Company and the undersigned when such counterpart is so mailed or delivered.
 
               This contract shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of New York.
 
               The name and telephone and department of the representative of the Purchaser with whom details of delivery on the Delivery Date may be discussed are as follows (please print):
 
Securities:
Principal amount or Number to be Purchased:
Purchase Price:
Delivery Dates:
 
Exhibit B
          The opinion of Chadbourne & Parke LLP, counsel for the Company, to be delivered pursuant to Article V, paragraph (b) of the document entitled Fortune Brands, Inc. Underwriting Agreement Standard Provisions (Debt Securities and Warrants to Purchase Debt Securities) shall be to the effect that:
 
 
          In rendering its opinion, Chadbourne & Parke LLP may limit its opinion to matters of the laws of the United States of America and the State of New York and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
 
Exhibit C
          The opinion of Davis Polk & Wardwell, counsel for the Underwriters, to be delivered pursuant to Article V, paragraph (c) of the document entitled Fortune Brands, Inc. Underwriting Agreement Standard Provisions (Debt Securities and Warrants to Purchase Debt Securities) shall be to the effect that:
 

 
Exhibit 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER (this "Agreement"), dated as of October 31, 2003, by and among Fortune Brands Home & Hardware, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Parent"), TDC Acquisition Company, Inc., an Ohio corporation and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent ("Merger Sub"), and Therma-Tru Holdings, Inc., an Ohio corporation (the "Company"). Parent, Merger Sub, the Company and, solely with respect to Articles X and XI, the Holders Representative, are referred to collectively herein as the "Parties".
     WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of each of Parent and the Company have determined that it is in the best interests of each corporation and their respective stockholders that the Parties consummate the business combination transaction provided for herein in which Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation (the "Merger");
     WHEREAS, Parent, as the sole shareholder of Merger Sub, has approved this Agreement, the Merger and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement pursuant to action taken in accordance with the requirements of the Ohio Revised Code (the "ORC") and the code of regulations of Merger Sub; and
     WHEREAS, contemporaneously with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, as a condition and an inducement to the willingness of Parent and Merger Sub to enter into this Agreement, Parent is entering into voting agreements in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A (the "Voting Agreements") with the Persons identified on Annex I hereto who own in excess of 66 2/3% of the issued and outstanding Company Common Shares (collectively, the "Principal Stockholders") pursuant to which the Principal Stockholders have agreed to vote all of the shares of common stock, no par value of the Company (the "Company Common Shares") owned by the Principal Stockholders of record and beneficially to the extent eligible to vote with respect to the transactions contemplated hereunder or the matters set forth therein (either pursuant to the articles of incorporation of the Company or under the ORC), in favor of the adoption of this Agreement and approval of the transactions contemplated hereby to be performed by the Company, upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Voting Agreements; and
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual representations, warranties, covenants and agreements set forth herein, the Parties hereby agree as follows:
     1.1 The Merger. Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, and in accordance with the ORC, at the Effective Time, Merger Sub shall be merged with and into the Company, the separate corporate existence of Merger Sub shall thereupon cease and the Company shall continue as the surviving corporation and shall succeed to and assume all the rights and obligations of Merger Sub in accordance with the ORC. The Company,
 
as the surviving corporation after the consummation of the Merger, is sometimes hereinafter referred to as the "Surviving Corporation."
     1.2 Closing. Unless this Agreement shall have been terminated and the transactions contemplated herein shall have been abandoned pursuant to Article IX, the closing of the Merger (the "Closing") shall take place at 10:00 a.m., local time, at the offices of counsel for Parent, on the later of (i) November 10, 2003 (the "Target Date") or (ii) the first Business Day after all of the conditions (excluding conditions that, by their nature, cannot be satisfied until the Closing Date) to the obligations of the Parties to consummate the Merger as set forth in Article VII have been satisfied or waived (subject to applicable law), or such other date, time or place as is agreed to in writing by the Parties (the actual time and date of the Closing being referred to herein as the "Closing Date").
     1.3 Effective Time. Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the Parties shall cause the Merger to be consummated by filing the certificate of merger of Merger Sub and the Company in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B (the "Certificate of Merger") with the Secretary of State of the State of Ohio in such form as required by, and executed in accordance with, the relevant provisions of the ORC, as soon as practicable on or before the Closing Date. The Merger shall become effective upon the filing of, and acceptance by, the Certificate of Merger with the Secretary of State of Ohio on the Closing Date (the date and time the Merger becomes effective on the Closing Date being hereinafter referred to as the "Effective Time").
     1.4 Effect of the Merger. At and after the Effective Time, the effect of the Merger shall be as provided in this Agreement and the applicable provisions of the ORC. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, and subject thereto, at the Effective Time, all the property, rights, privileges, powers and franchises of the Company and Merger Sub shall vest in the Surviving Corporation, and all debts, liabilities and duties of the Company and Merger Sub shall become the debts, liabilities and duties of the Surviving Corporation.
     2.1 Articles of Incorporation. At and after the Effective Time, and without any further action on the part of the Company and Merger Sub, the articles of incorporation of the Company shall be amended to read in their entirety as the articles of incorporation of Merger Sub reads as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time until thereafter changed or amended as provided therein or by applicable law.
     2.2 Code of Regulations. At the Effective Time, the code of regulations of Merger Sub as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be the code of regulations of the Surviving Corporation, until thereafter changed or amended as provided therein or by applicable law.
 
     3.1 Directors of the Surviving Corporation. The directors of the Surviving Corporation, as of the Effective Time, will be the directors of Merger Sub immediately prior to the Effective Time.
     3.2 Officers of the Surviving Corporation. The officers of the Surviving Corporation, as of the Effective Time, will be the officers of Merger Sub immediately prior to the Effective Time.
     4.1 Effect of the Merger on the Shares.
 
     4.2 Merger Consideration.
 
 
     4.3 Payment for the Shares.
 
 
 
     4.4 Warrants. Immediately prior to the Effective Time, each Warrant holder shall assign to the Company, pursuant to the terms of the Warrant Assignment Agreement, all of the Warrants held by such holder, in exchange for the consideration set forth in this Section 4.4. Each Warrant holder shall thereafter be entitled to receive for each Warrant held thereby and so assigned, an amount equal to: (i) a payment in cash by the Company (subject to any applicable withholding taxes), at the Effective Time, equal to the product of (A) the total number of Company Common Shares as to which such Warrant remains unexercised times (B) the excess, if any, of (1) the Preliminary Merger Price over (2) the exercise price per Company Common Share subject to such Warrant, if any (such amounts payable hereunder being referred to as the "Warrant Payments") and (ii) any additional payment when due and payable under Section 4.7(c). Upon surrender of the warrant agreement by the holder of such Warrant to the Escrow and Paying Agent, the Escrow and Paying Agent shall pay to such holder, on behalf of the Company and subject to any applicable withholding taxes, the Warrant Payments due under this Section 4.4 with respect to such Warrant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Escrow and Paying Agent shall not pay to the Warrant holder that portion of the Warrant Payments representing that portion of the Preliminary Merger Price to be deposited in (i) the Indemnity Escrow, (ii) the Adjustment Escrow, and (iii) if applicable, the Transaction Expenses Escrow until such time as such amounts are distributable pursuant to the Escrow Agreement.
     4.5 Escrow Amounts; Allocation and Assignment of Distributions of Escrowed Amounts. The Parties agree that the terms of the Escrow Agreement shall include (i) the right of the Fully-Diluted Stockholders to receive quarterly tax distributions in amounts sufficient to enable each Fully-Diluted Stockholder to discharge any federal, state and local tax liability (determined by assuming the applicability of the highest combined effective margin of federal, state and local tax rates applicable to an individual residing in New York, New York) with respect to all interest income on the Indemnity Escrow Amount, the Adjustment Escrow and the Transaction Expenses Escrow allocated to such Fully-Diluted Stockholder in accordance with the terms of the Escrow Agreement, and (ii) the fees and expenses of the Escrow and Paying Agent relating to (A) the Indemnity Escrow and the Adjustment Escrow shall be borne equally by the Parent and the Fully-Diluted Stockholders, and (B) if applicable, the Transaction Expenses Escrow shall be borne by the Fully-Diluted Stockholders, and all such fees and expenses payable by the Fully-Diluted Stockholders shall be paid out of the Indemnity Escrow, the Adjustment Escrow and the Transaction Expenses Escrow, respectively. The amount of any distributions or payments to be made to, or on behalf of, a Fully-Diluted Stockholder from (i) the Indemnity Escrow, (ii) the Adjustment Escrow, and (iii) if applicable, the Transaction Expenses Escrow pursuant to the terms of the Escrow Agreement will be determined based on the percentage ownership (calculated on a fully-diluted basis) of Company Common Shares (including Company Common Shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrants) owned by such Fully-Diluted Stockholder immediately prior to the Effective Time as set forth on Schedule A to the Escrow Agreement. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein or in the Escrow Agreement, each Fully-Diluted Stockholder shall have the right to transfer or assign its right to receive any distributions from (i) the Indemnity Escrow, (ii) the Adjustment Escrow, and (iii) if applicable, the Transaction Expenses Escrow to any Affiliate thereof or any investor, partner or stockholder thereof and any of their respective Affiliates or any other Fully Diluted Stockholder.
     4.6 Further Assurances. At and after the Effective Time, the officers and directors of the Surviving Corporation will be authorized to execute and deliver, in the name and on behalf of
 
the Company or Merger Sub, as applicable, any deeds, bills of sale, assignments or assurances and to take and do, in the name and on behalf of the Company or Merger Sub, any other actions and things to vest, perfect or confirm of record or otherwise in the Surviving Corporation any and all right, title and interest in, to and under any of the rights, properties or assets acquired or to be acquired by the Surviving Corporation as a result of, or in connection with, the Merger.
     4.7 Adjustment Escrow.
 
     4.8 Transaction Expense Escrow. At Closing, at the discretion of the Holders Representatives, an aggregate amount of up to $1,000,000 representing a source of payment of legal, accounting, broker and other similar professional fees and expenses incurred by the Company (during the period prior to the Closing Date) or the Fully-Diluted Stockholders in connection with the Merger including, without limitation, in connection with the defense of claims, if any, brought by the Parent Indemnified Parties pursuant Section 8.2 hereof (the "Transaction Expense Escrow") shall be deducted from the aggregate amounts otherwise to be paid by the Escrow and Paying Agent to the Fully-Diluted Stockholders pursuant to Sections 4.3 and 4.4 and retained by the Escrow and Paying Agent subject to the Escrow Agreement.
     4.9 Company Performance Reward Plan. Prior to the Effective Time, the Company shall adopt the Company Performance Reward Plan and shall record the full expense of the plan on the books and records of the Company. At the Effective Time, Parent shall cause the Company to deposit, subject to obtaining the 280G Consent, the aggregate amount of the payments due under the Company Performance Reward Plan into a trust (the "Company Performance Reward Plan Trust") established by the Company with Charles Schwab & Co., which amount shall be held in such trust and distributed to the officers and employees of the Company entitled to receive distributions therefrom in accordance with the terms of the Company Performance Reward Plan.
     5.1 Representations and Warranties of the Company. The Company hereby represents and warrants to Parent and Merger Sub (except as specifically set forth in the corresponding section of the disclosure schedules attached hereto (the "Disclosure Schedules")) as of the date hereof and except for representations and warranties that speak as of a specific date other than the date hereof, as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       5.2 Representations and Warranties of Parent and Merger Sub. Parent and Merger Sub hereby represent and warrant to the Company (except as specifically set forth in the corresponding Section of disclosure schedules attached hereto (the "Parent Disclosure Schedules")), as of the date hereof, as follows:
 
 
       6.1 Conduct of Business.
 
 
 
       6.2 No Solicitation.
 
     6.3   Stockholders Action. The Company will take all action required by the ORC, its articles of incorporation and its code of regulations to convene, and will convene, no later than nine (9) days after delivery of written notice to the stockholders of the Company of the transactions contemplated under this Agreement by the Company, a meeting of the stockholders of the Company to consider and vote upon the approval of the Merger (the "Company Stockholders' Meeting"). In addition, concurrent with such written notice, the Company shall, in a manner complying with Code Section 280G(b)(5)(B) and the proposed regulations issued pursuant thereto, (i) deliver to its stockholders a disclosure statement identifying potential parachute payments under Code Section 280G substantially in the form previously furnished to Parent and (ii) solicit the consent of its stockholders to such payments (the "280G Consent"). Prior to soliciting the 280G Consent, the Company shall obtain from the payment recipients any waivers (in a form reasonably acceptable to Parent) necessary to make the payments contingent on obtaining the 280G Consent in a manner required by the applicable regulations. The Company shall allow Parent to review and approve the 280G Consent and waivers and any amendments or supplements thereto a reasonable time prior to their distribution to the Company's stockholders.
     6.4   Access to Information.
 
       6.5 Publicity. The Parties agree that they will consult with each other concerning any proposed press release or public announcement pertaining to this Agreement or the Merger in order to agree upon the text of any such press release or the making of such public announcement, which agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld, except as may be required by applicable Law or by obligations pursuant to any listing agreement with a national securities exchange or national automated quotation system, in which case the Party proposing to issue such press release or make such public announcement shall use its reasonable best efforts to consult in good faith with Parent or the Company, as applicable, before issuing any such press release or making any such public announcement.
       6.6 Credit Agreement and Letters of Credit.
 
       6.7 Filings; Best Efforts to Consummate Transactions. Subject to the terms and conditions herein provided, the Parties shall use their best efforts promptly to take, or cause to be taken, all actions and do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or appropriate to cause the conditions in Section 7 to be satisfied as soon as practicable or as otherwise provided for herein, including, without limitation, in the case of Parent, in connection with the successful completion of its meetings with the Specified Customers and its good faith presentation at such meetings of its intention to support the continued operation of the Company's business as currently conducted and as currently intended to be conducted.
       6.8 Documents to be Delivered Upon Signing. On the date hereof, the applicable Party shall cause the following to be delivered:
 
       6.9 Tax Matters. Subject to Section 4.2(b)(ii)(C) and Section 6.9(g):
 
 
     6.10 Payment of Management Incentive Payments. Parent, Merger Sub and the Company agree that (i) the Management Incentive Payments to be paid pursuant to the Company Performance Reward Plan will be paid as bonus compensation to the recipients thereof and will be structured (and paid), to the reasonable satisfaction of Parent and the Company, in such a manner as to cause such payments to be treated as a compensation expense for tax purposes and (ii) the Company or the Surviving Corporation will duly perform all of its respective obligations under the Company Performance Reward Plan, including, without limitation, the maintaining the Company Performance Reward Plan Trust and the payment therefrom of (A) approximately 40% of the Management Incentive Payments on or before December 31, 2003, (B) approximately 30% of the Management Incentive Payments on or shortly after October 31, 2004 and (C) the remainder of the Management Incentive Payments on or shortly after October 31, 2005. Prior to the Closing, the Company shall take all such actions necessary to adopt the Company Performance Reward Plan, which shall provide for such payment terms pursuant to terms and conditions reasonably satisfactory to Parent and shall further provide that no amendment or modification shall be made thereto without the express written consent of the Holders Representatives.
     6.11 Employee Matters. Parent agrees that it will enter into the Employment Agreements as of the date hereof and that such Employment Agreements shall be effective as of the Closing Date. Parent shall take, or cause to be taken, such action as may be necessary so that for the period commencing from and after the Effective Time through December 31, 2004 (or in the case of the Company's Supplement Executive Retirement Plan, through December 31, 2006), the compensation and benefits programs provided to employees of the Surviving Corporation other than those employees who are a party to the Employment Agreements (the "Non-Contract Employees") will remain substantially similar (in the aggregate) to those compensation and benefits programs (excluding equity based programs) provided to such Non-Contract Employees prior to Closing, including, without limitation, maintaining in effect the cash bonus plan currently provided by the Company to such Non-Contract Employees. The foregoing, however, shall not prevent modifications that are made in consultation with, and with the concurrence of, senior management of the Company, including modifications to the salary and bonus structure for Non-Contract Employees that were contemplated by the Company prior to August 1, 2003.
     6.12 Preservation of Records; Access. From and after the Closing Date, Parent shall (and shall cause the Surviving Corporation and each of its Subsidiaries and other Affiliates to), during normal business hours and upon reasonable prior notice and in such a manner as will not unreasonably interfere with the conduct of the business of Parent or any of its Subsidiaries, make available and provide the Holders Representatives and their respective representatives (including, without limitation, counsel and independent auditors) with access to the facilities, properties and personnel of the Surviving Corporation and each of its Subsidiaries and to all information, files, documents and records (written and computer) relating to the Surviving Corporation or its Subsidiaries or any of their businesses or operations for any and all periods prior to or including the Closing Date which they may require with respect to any claim, dispute, action, cause of action, investigation or proceeding of any kind by or against any Fully-Diluted
 
Stockholder (including, without limitation, as may be brought by a Parent Indemnified Party), and cooperate fully with the Holders Representatives in connection with the foregoing.
       6.13 Collection of Receivables. Following the Closing, Parent agrees, or agrees to cause the Surviving Corporation, (i) to use all commercially reasonable efforts, in the Ordinary Course of Business, to manage and collect the Receivables (notwithstanding any indemnification by the Fully-Diluted Stockholders pursuant to Section 8.2(iii) hereof) and (ii) not to compromise, credit, discount, settle, set-off or otherwise reduce any Receivables other than in the Ordinary Course of Business. In the event the Surviving Corporation collects any amount with respect to Receivables for which it has collected an indemnification claim pursuant to Section 8.2(iii) hereof, Parent shall promptly notify the Holders Representatives and cause the Surviving Corporation to promptly remit such amount to the Escrow Agent for distribution to the Fully-Diluted Stockholders.
       6.14 Weber Change of Control Payment. The Parties hereby agree that in the event that the Weber Change of Control Payment shall become due and payable to Reinhart Weber pursuant to the terms of the Weber Change of Control Agreement during the eighteen (18) month period following the Effective Time, the Fully-Diluted Stockholders shall pay such Weber Change of Control Payment to Rheinhart Weber from the Indemnity Escrow. In the event that the Weber Change of Control payment shall become due and payable at any time following the expiration of the eighteen (18) month period following the Effective Time, the Fully-Diluted Stockholders shall have no obligation in respect of the payment thereof and such payment shall be made or caused to be made by Parent.
       6.15 Stockholder Agreement. In connection with the grant of the Option (as defined in the Voting Agreement), the Company hereby consents to the amendment of the Stockholders Agreement as set forth in Section 4 of the Voting Agreement.
       7.1 Conditions to Each Party's Obligations. The respective obligations of each Party to consummate the Merger are subject to the satisfaction or waiver by each of the Parties of the following conditions:
 
       7.2 Additional Conditions to the Obligations of the Company. The obligations of the Company to consummate the Merger are subject to the fulfillment at or prior to the Effective Time of the following additional conditions, any or all of which may be waived in whole or in part by the Company to the extent permitted by applicable Law:
       7.3 Additional Conditions to the Obligations of Parent. The obligations of Parent to consummate the Merger are subject to the fulfillment at or prior to the Effective Time of the following additional conditions, any or all of which may be waived in whole or in part by Parent to the extent permitted by applicable Law:
 
 
     8.1 Survival Periods. The respective representations and warranties of the Parties set forth in this Agreement shall survive the Effective Time and will remain in full force and effect until May 10, 2005 (the "General Claim Termination Date"). The covenants set forth herein shall survive in accordance with their terms. Neither the period of survival nor any liability of the Fully-Diluted Stockholders pursuant to the Escrow Agreement with respect to the Company's covenants, representations and warranties shall be reduced by any due diligence or other investigation made by Parent or Merger Sub at any time or by the disclosure of any facts or circumstances to Parent or Merger Sub (whether prior to or after the date of this Agreement) other than such facts set forth in the Schedules hereto as of the date hereof in accordance with the terms hereof.
     8.2 Indemnification by Fully-Diluted Stockholders. From and after the Closing Date, the Fully-Diluted Stockholders shall, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Escrow Agreement, indemnify and hold harmless Parent, the Surviving Corporation and its Subsidiaries, each of their respective directors, officers, employees and agents (other than the Fully-Diluted Stockholders), and each of the heirs, executors, successors and assigns of any of the foregoing (collectively, the "Parent Indemnified Parties") from and against any and all Losses incurred by, suffered by or asserted against any of the Parent Indemnified Parties in connection with or arising from (i) any breach by the Company or the Holders Representatives of their respective covenants and agreements contained herein, (ii) any breach by the Company of its representations and warranties contained herein (other than in connection with any claim for Losses resulting from a breach of a representation or warranty with respect to Receivables or Inventories for which, in each case, indemnification shall be subject to clause (iii) of this Section 8.2), and (iii) any breach by the Company of its representations and warranties set forth in Sections 5.1(e) or (s) solely to the extent relating to Receivables or Inventories; provided, that (A) for purposes of clauses (ii) and (iii), if any such representation or warranty is qualified by materiality, Material Adverse Effect, the word "material" or by words of similar impact, such qualification or exception will, in all respects, be ignored and deemed not included in such representation or warranty; (B) the Fully-Diluted Stockholders shall be required to indemnify the Parent Indemnified Parties pursuant to Section 8.2(ii) only to the extent that the aggregate Losses indemnifiable pursuant to Section 8.2(ii) exceed $1,000,000 in the aggregate (the "Threshold") (provided, that once the aggregate Losses exceed the Threshold, the Fully-Diluted Stockholders shall be required to indemnify the Parent Indemnified Parties for the payment of all Losses pursuant to Section 8.2(ii) from the first dollar thereof and not merely the amounts in excess of the Threshold); (C) the Fully-Diluted Stockholders shall be required to indemnify the Parent Indemnified Parties pursuant to Section 8.2(iii) only to the extent that the aggregate Losses indemnifiable pursuant to Section 8.2(iii) exceed $2,000,000 in the aggregate (but not amounts below $2,000,000); (D) the Fully-Diluted Stockholders shall not be required to indemnify the Parent Indemnified Parties pursuant to Sections 6.9, 8.2(i), (ii) and (iii) in an aggregate amount in excess of $32,000,000; provided, that for claims made under Section 6.9 after the General Claim Termination Date and prior to March 31, 2007 (the "Tax Claim Termination Date"), the Fully-Diluted Stockholders shall not be required to indemnify the Parent Indemnified Parties in an aggregate amount in excess of $3,000,000; and (E) any claim for indemnification under this Section 8.2 must be made prior to the General Claim Termination Date, except that claims under
 
Section 6.9 must be made prior to the Tax Claim Termination Date; provided, further, that the limitations described above in Sections 8.2(A), (B), (C) and (D) shall not apply to any Losses resulting from the fraud or intentional misrepresentation of the Company. To the extent that any of the Fully-Diluted Stockholders undertakings set forth in this Section 8.2 may be unenforceable, each of the Fully-Diluted Stockholders shall, pursuant to the Escrow Agreement and subject to clause (y) below, contribute the maximum amount that it is permitted under applicable law to the payment and satisfaction of all indemnifiable liabilities incurred by the Parent Indemnified Parties. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, following the Closing, (x) the Fully-Diluted Stockholders shall have no liability for breaches of this Agreement except pursuant to this Section 8.2 and the Escrow Agreement and (y) all amounts (other than amounts resulting from the fraud or intentional misrepresentation of the Company) recoverable from the Fully-Diluted Stockholders pursuant to this Article VIII and Section 6.9 shall be recoverable solely from the Indemnity Escrow.
       8.3 Indemnification by Parent. From and after the Closing Date, Parent shall indemnify and hold harmless the Fully-Diluted Stockholders, each of their respective directors, officers, employees and agents, and each of the heirs, executors, successors and assigns of any of the foregoing (collectively, the "Stockholder Indemnified Parties") from and against any and all Losses incurred by, suffered by or asserted against any of the Stockholder Indemnified Parties in connection with or arising from (i) any breach by Parent or Merger Sub of its covenants and agreements contained herein or (ii) any breach by Parent or Merger Sub of its representations and warranties contained herein; provided, that for purposes of this clause (ii), if any such representation or warranty is qualified by materiality, Parent Material Adverse Effect, the word "material" or by words of similar impact, such qualification or exceptions will, in all respects be ignored and deemed not included in such representation or warranty; provided that (A) Parent shall be required to indemnify the Stockholder Indemnified Parties pursuant to Section 8.3(ii) only to the extent that the aggregate Losses indemnifiable pursuant to Section 8.3(ii) exceed the Threshold (provided, that once the aggregate Losses exceed the Threshold, Parent shall be liable for the payment of all Losses from the first dollar thereof and not merely the amounts in excess of the Threshold), (B) Parent shall not be required to indemnify the Seller Indemnified Parties pursuant to Section 8.3 in an aggregate amount in excess of $32,000,000 and (C) any claim for indemnification under this Section 8.3 must be made prior to the General Claim Termination Date; provided, further, that the limitations described in Section 8.3 (A), (B) and (C) shall not apply to any Losses resulting from fraud or intentional misrepresentation of Parent. To the extent that the Parent's undertakings set forth in this Section 8.3 may be unenforceable, Parent shall contribute the maximum amount that it is permitted under applicable law to the payment and satisfaction of all indemnifiable liabilities incurred by the Stockholder Indemnified Parties.
       8.4 Indemnification Claims.
 
       8.5 Tax Treatment of Indemnification Payments. All indemnification payments under this Article VIII and under Section 6.9 shall be treated as adjustments to the Merger Consideration.
       8.6 Damages. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary elsewhere in this Agreement and except with respect to Losses involving fraud, no Party (or any of its Affiliates) shall, in any event, be liable to the other Party (or any of its Affiliates) for any (i) consequential or exemplary damages (including, without limitation (i) multiple-based damages) and (ii) loss of future revenue or income, or loss of business reputation or opportunity relating to the breach of or alleged breach of this Agreement), or (ii) punitive damages of such other Party (or any of its Affiliates), except to the extent that any third-party action for which a Party seeks indemnification under this Article VIII includes such damages.
       8.7 Calculation of Losses. The amount of any Loss for which indemnification is provided to any Party pursuant to this Article VIII shall be net of (each, a "Loss Reduction Amount") (i) any amounts actually recovered by the indemnified party under any insurance policies with respect to such Loss; provided, that no Party shall be obligated to obtain or maintain insurance for such purpose, (ii) with respect to a Parent Indemnified Party, any amounts actually recovered thereby from the landlord relating to the leased real property at Fredericksburg, Virginia, (iii) with respect to claims made pursuant to Section 8.2(iii), the amount of the Specific Reserves allocable to such Loss, (iv) with respect to claims made
 
pursuant to Section 8.2(ii), the amount of any specific reserves established with respect to such Loss as reflected on the Recent Financial Statements and set forth on Schedule 8.7 and (v) the amount of the Tax benefits actually received; provided, that no Indemnifying Party shall be entitled to approve, review or otherwise participate in the analysis or determination of any such Tax benefits and no Indemnified Party shall have any obligation to maximize any such Tax benefit. If the amount of any Losses incurred by an Indemnified Party at any time subsequent to the making of a payment by an Indemnifying Party pursuant to this Article VIII is reduced by a Loss Reduction Amount, the amount of such Loss Reduction Amount (less any costs, expenses (including Taxes) or premiums incurred in connection therewith) shall promptly be repaid by the Indemnified Party to the Indemnifying Party. Except with respect to indemnification for Losses pursuant to Section 8.2(iii), upon making a full indemnity payment, the Indemnifying Party shall, to the extent of such indemnity payment, be subrogated to all rights of the Indemnified Party against any third party in respect of the Losses to which the indemnity payment relates.
       8.8 Duty to Mitigate. Nothing in this Agreement shall in any way restrict, limit or increase the general obligation at law of an Indemnified Party to mitigate any Losses which it may suffer or incur by reason of the breach by an Indemnifying Party of any representation, warranty or covenant of the Indemnifying Party hereunder; provided, however that with respect to any claims for Losses by a Parent Indemnified Party relating to the leased real property located at Fredericksburg, Virginia, the Parent Indemnified Parties shall pursue in good faith any claims, settlement or payment by the landlord of such facility in respect of such Losses.
       8.9 Sole and Exclusive Remedy. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, each of Parent, Merger Sub, the Company and the Fully-Diluted Stockholders hereby agree that following the Closing, their sole and exclusive remedy with respect to any Losses and any and all other claims relating to the subject matter of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby shall be in accordance with, and limited by, the provisions set forth in this Article VIII and in the Escrow Agreement and all of such Claims for Losses shall be satisfied only out of the Indemnity Escrow; provided, however, nothing herein shall be deemed to limit or modify any obligations of any Fully-Diluted Stockholder or Parent under the applicable Letter of Transmittal or Warrant Assignment Agreement or any rights of Parent or the Company (solely as to the applicable Fully-Diluted Stockholder under the applicable Letter of Transmittal or Warrant Assignment Agreement) or the Fully-Diluted Stockholder thereunder with respect to breaches thereof.
       8.10 Directors' and Officers' Indemnification.
 
       8.11 Tax Indemnity Insurance. If the Holders Representatives, on behalf of the Fully Diluted Stockholders, provide to Parent (and prepay the premiums for) an insurance policy (the "Tax Indemnity Insurance Policy") covering the $3,000,000 (together with interest thereon that would have accrued from the effective date of such insurance policy through the Tax Claim
 
Termination Date) Tax indemnification provided pursuant to Section 8.2 in relation to indemnification claims by Parent thereunder from and after the General Claim Termination Date through the Tax Claim Termination Date, which is (i) reasonably approved and satisfactory in form and substance to Parent, and (ii) issued by an insurer whose creditworthiness is reasonably approved and acceptable to Parent, then Parent, upon receiving the Tax Indemnity Insurance Policy and coverage and so approving the Tax Indemnity Insurance Policy, will thereupon release the remaining $3,000,000 from the Indemnity Escrow. The premium for the Tax Indemnity Insurance Policy will be paid by the Holders Representatives, on behalf of the Fully Diluted Stockholders, from amounts distributable to the Fully-Diluted Stockholders pursuant to the Indemnity Escrow or from amounts deposited pursuant to the Transaction Expense Escrow.
       9.1 Termination by Mutual Consent. This Agreement may be terminated and the Merger may be abandoned at any time prior to the Effective Time by the mutual written consent of the Company and Parent.
       9.2 Termination by Either the Company or Parent. This Agreement may be terminated and the Merger may be abandoned at any time prior to the Effective Time:
 
     9.3 Effect of Termination. In the event of termination of this Agreement by either Parent or the Company as provided in this Article IX, this Agreement shall forthwith become void and there shall be no liability or obligation on the part of the Parties or their respective Affiliates, officers, directors or stockholders except (i) with respect to the payment of expenses pursuant to Section 10.1 or (ii) to the extent that such termination results from the willful breach of a Party of any of its representations or warranties, or any of its covenants or agreements. Each Party further agrees that following any such termination, it shall continue to be bound by all of the terms and conditions contained in the Confidentiality Agreement.
     10.1 Payment of Expenses. All sales, use and transfer taxes due by reason of the transfer of the Company Common Shares (the "Transfer Taxes") shall be apportioned fifty percent (50%) to Parent and fifty percent (50%) to the Fully-Diluted Stockholders. Parent and the Holders Representatives shall cooperate with each other and use their commercially reasonable efforts to minimize the Transfer Taxes. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, whether or not the Merger shall be consummated, each of Parent, the Company and each Fully-Diluted Stockholder shall pay its own expenses (or have such expenses paid on its behalf) incident to preparing for, entering into and carrying out this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby (other than Transfer Taxes). Notwithstanding the above, the Fully-Diluted Stockholders shall be fully liable for any capital gains, income, withholding or similar taxes due by reason of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereunder.
     10.2 Modification or Amendment. Subject to the provisions of applicable law, at any time prior to the Effective Time, the Parties hereto, may modify or amend this Agreement, by written agreement executed and delivered by duly authorized officers of the respective Parties.
     10.3 Waiver of Conditions. The conditions to each of the Parties' obligations to consummate the Merger are for the sole benefit of such Party and may be waived by such Party in whole or in part to the extent permitted by applicable law.
     10.4 Counterparts. For the convenience of the parties hereto, this Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each such counterpart being deemed to be an original instrument, and all such counterparts shall together constitute the same agreement.
     10.5 Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without giving effect to the principles of conflicts of law thereof.
     10.6 Notices. Any notice, request, instruction or other document to be given hereunder by any Party to the other Parties shall be deemed delivered upon actual receipt and shall be in writing and delivered personally or sent by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, reputable overnight courier, or by facsimile transmission (with a confirming copy sent by reputable overnight courier), as follows:
 
 
or to such other Persons or addresses as may be designated in writing by the Party to receive such notice.
     10.7 Entire Agreement; Assignment. This Agreement, including the Schedules and the Exhibits attached hereto, the Confidentiality Agreement, the Voting Agreements and the Escrow Agreement constitutes the entire agreement among the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all other prior agreements and understandings, both written and oral, among the Parties or any of them with respect to the subject matter hereof including the Letter of Intent. This Agreement may not be assigned by operation of law or otherwise.
     10.8 Parties in Interest. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of each Party hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, other than the right to receive the consideration payable in the Merger pursuant to Article IV hereof and the indemnification rights under Article VIII, is intended to or shall confer upon any other Person any rights, benefits or remedies of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this Agreement.
     10.9 Headings, Definitions. The Section and Article headings contained in this Agreement are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. All references to Sections or Articles contained herein mean Sections or Articles of this Agreement unless otherwise stated. All defined terms and phrases herein are equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of such terms.
     10.10 Obligations of Subsidiary. Whenever this Agreement requires any Subsidiary of a Party to take any action, such requirement shall be deemed to include an undertaking on the part of such Party to cause such Subsidiary to take such action.
     10.11 Severability. If any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal or unenforceable, all other provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any Party. Upon a determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the Parties shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the Parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner to the end that the transactions contemplated hereby are fulfilled to the maximum extent possible.
     10.12 Specific Performance. The Parties hereto acknowledge that irreparable damage would result if this Agreement were not specifically enforced, and they therefore consent that the rights and obligations of the Parties under this Agreement may be enforced by a decree of specific performance issued by a court of competent jurisdiction. Such remedy shall, however, not be exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedies which any Party may have under this Agreement or otherwise.
     10.13 Trial by Jury. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO TRIAL BY JURY IN CONNECTION WITH ANY LITIGATION ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, THE VOTING AGREEMENTS, THE INDEMNITY ESCROW AGREEMENT
 
OR MERGER OR ANY OF THE OTHER TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY.
       10.14 Certain Definitions. As used herein the following terms shall have the following meanings and, unless the context otherwise requires, use of the singular form shall include the plural and any gender shall be deemed to include both genders:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       11.1 Appointment. The Company hereby irrevocably makes, constitutes and appoints David K. Welles, Jr. and Jeffrey L. Kenner, as the Fully-Diluted Stockholders' joint agents and representatives (the "Holders Representatives") for all purposes under this Agreement and the Escrow Agreement. In the event of the death, resignation or incapacity of either one of the Holders Representatives, the Welles Family Stockholders (as defined in the Stockholders Agreement) (with respect to David K. Welles) or Kenner & Company (with respect to Jeffrey L. Kenner), as the case may be, shall promptly designate another Person to act as a joint security holders' agent and representative under this Agreement so that at all times there will be two Holders Representatives with the authority provided in this Article XI.
       11.2 Authorization. The Company hereby authorizes the Holders Representatives, on behalf of the Company and the Fully-Diluted Stockholders', to:
 
          All actions, decisions and instructions of the Holders Representatives shall be conclusive and binding upon all of the Fully-Diluted Stockholders and no Fully-Diluted Stockholder or any other Person shall have any claim or cause of action against the Holders Representatives, and the Holders Representatives shall have no Liability to any Fully-Diluted Stockholder or any other Person, for any action taken, decision made or instruction given by the
 
Holders Representatives in connection with the Escrow Agreement or this Agreement, except in the case of his own gross negligence or willful misconduct.
     11.3 Irrevocable Appointment. The appointment of the Holders Representatives hereunder is irrevocable and any action taken by the Holders Representatives pursuant to the authority granted in this Article XI shall be effective and absolutely binding on the Company and each stockholder thereof notwithstanding any contrary action of, or direction from, the Company or any Fully-Diluted Stockholder, except for actions taken by the Holders Representatives which are in bad faith.
     11.4 Required Action. All actions taken by the Holders Representatives, whether under this Agreement or the Escrow Agreement, shall be taken by their joint and mutual consent; provided, in the event that at any time the Holders Representatives are unable to take any such required action with respect to a matter presented thereto (which in the event no period for action is specified, shall be within fifteen (15) Business Days of referral of such matter thereto), Larry Solari shall thereafter be deemed to be the Holders Representatives with respect to such matter without any further action of the parties hereto.
     11.5 Parent's Reliance. Parent shall not be obliged to inquire into the authority of the Holders Representatives, and Parent shall be fully protected in dealing with the Holders Representatives in good faith (including the authority of Larry Solari pursuant to Section 11.4 above).
     11.6 Binding Appointment. The provisions of this Agreement, including without limitation Article XI hereof, shall be binding upon each Fully-Diluted Stockholder and the executors, heirs, legal representatives and successors of each Fully-Diluted Stockholder, and any references in this Agreement to a Fully-Diluted Stockholder or the Fully-Diluted Stockholders shall mean and include the successors to the Fully-Diluted Stockholders' rights hereunder, whether pursuant to testamentary disposition, the laws of descent and distribution or otherwise.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement and Plan of Merger has been duly executed and delivered by the duly authorized officers of the Parties hereto and shall be effective as of the date first herein above written.
 
David K. Welles, Jr.
Carl Hedlund
David Haddix
Joseph Herman
Dan Templeton
Pam Reese
Caroll Summersgill
Bob Doyle
 
KT Holdings, L.P.
David K. Welles, Sr.
Georgia E. Welles, Trustee of David K. Welles, Sr. 1994 Qualified Annuity Trust
David K. Welles, Jr.
Jeffrey F. Welles

 
Exhibit 4b
          THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (THE "DEPOSITARY") OR A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY. THIS SECURITY IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY) MAY BE MADE EXCEPT IN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES.
          UNLESS THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE COMPANY (AS DEFINED HEREIN) OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY SECURITY ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT THEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL IN AS MUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
CUSIP 349631 AJ 0
FORTUNE BRANDS, INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein referred to as the "Company"), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO. or registered assigns, the principal sum of THREE
 
HUNDRED MILLION DOLLARS on December 1, 2006, and to pay interest, semiannually on June 1 and December 1 of each year commencing June 1, 2004, on said principal sum at the rate of 2 7/8% per annum, from the June 1 or December 1, as the case may be, next preceding the date of this Security to which interest has been paid, unless the date hereof is a date to which interest has been paid, in which case from the date of this Security, or unless no interest has been paid on the Securities, in which case from November 20, 2003, until payment of said principal sum has been made or duly provided for. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the date hereof is after a May 15 or November 15, as the case may be, and before the following June 1 or December 1, this Security shall bear interest from such June 1 or December 1; provided, however, that if the Company shall default in the payment of interest due on such June 1 or December 1 then this Security shall bear interest from the next preceding June 1 or December 1 to which interest has been paid, or, if no interest has been paid on the Securities, from November 20, 2003. The interest so payable on any June 1 or December 1 will, subject to certain exceptions provided in the Indenture (the "Indenture") dated as of April 15, 1999, between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank (formerly, The Chase Manhattan Bank), as Trustee (the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture with respect to the Securities of this series), be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the May 15 or November 15, as the case may be, next preceding such June 1 or December 1. The principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security are payable at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided that interest may be paid, at the option of the Company, by check mailed to the Person entitled thereto at its address on the Security Register. Any interest not punctually paid or duly provided for shall be payable as provided in said Indenture.
          This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of Securities of the Company designated as its 2 7/8% Notes Due 2006 (Securities of such series being hereinafter called the "Securities"), limited in aggregate principal amount to $300,000,000, issued and to be issued under the Indenture, to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.
          Except as otherwise provided in the Indenture, this Security will be issued in global form only registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee. This Security will not be issued in definitive form, except as otherwise provided in the Indenture, and ownership of this Security shall be maintained in book-entry form by the Depositary for the accounts of participating organizations of the Depositary.
 
          No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin and currency, herein prescribed.
          The Securities are not subject to redemption by the Company prior to maturity.
          Section 4.03 (including subparagraph (4) thereof and clause (B), but not clause (A), of such subparagraph) and Section 10.10 (including subparagraph (5) thereof) of the Indenture contain provisions applicable to this Security that provide for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and certain Events of Default upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein.
          As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, this Security may be registered for transfer on the Security Register of the Company, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company, the Trustee and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the registered Holder hereof or its attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
          The Company may, from time to time, without notice to or the consent of the Holders of the Securities, increase the aggregate principal amount of the Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture and issue such increased principal amount (or any portion thereof), in which case any additional Securities so issued will have the same form and terms (other than the date of issuance and, under certain circumstances, the date from which interest thereon will begin to accrue), and will carry the same right to receive accrued and unpaid interest, as the Securities previously issued, and such additional Securities will form a single series with the Securities.
          The Securities are issuable only as Registered Securities in denominations of integral multiples of $1,000. As provided in the Indenture, and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Registered Securities of different authorized denominations, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
 
          No service charge will be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
          The Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company or the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
          If an Event of Default, as defined in the Indenture, with respect to the Securities shall occur, the principal of all the Securities may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
          The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities under the Indenture at any time by the Company with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then Outstanding Securities of this series and of each other series issued under the Indenture and affected by such amendment or modification. The Indenture also permits the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities, to waive certain past defaults under the Indenture with respect to the Securities and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver shall be conclusive and binding upon the Holder of this Security and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof whether or not a notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
          No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of or the interest on this Security, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect hereof, or based on or in respect of the Indenture or any indenture supplemental thereto, against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any successor Person, either directly or through the Company, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issue hereof, expressly waived and released.
          Except as otherwise defined herein, all terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
          This Security shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of New York and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of said State.
 
          Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee by the manual signature of one of its authorized officers, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under said Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated: November 20, 2003
SEAL
[
]
Attest:
          This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.

 
Exhibit 4c
          THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (THE "DEPOSITARY") OR A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY. THIS SECURITY IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY) MAY BE MADE EXCEPT IN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES.
          UNLESS THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE COMPANY (AS DEFINED HEREIN) OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY SECURITY ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT THEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL IN AS MUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
CUSIP 349631 AK 7
          FORTUNE BRANDS, INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein referred to as the "Company"), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO. or registered assigns, the principal sum
 
of THREE HUNDRED MILLION DOLLARS on December 1, 2013 and to pay interest, semiannually on June 1 and December 1 of each year commencing June 1, 2004, on said principal sum at the rate of 4 7/8% per annum, from the June 1 or December 1, as the case may be, next preceding the date of this Security to which interest has been paid, unless the date hereof is a date to which interest has been paid, in which case from the date of this Security, or unless no interest has been paid on the Securities, in which case from November 20, 2003, until payment of said principal sum has been made or duly provided for. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the date hereof is after a May 15 or November 15, as the case may be, and before the following June 1 or December 1, this Security shall bear interest from such June 1 or December 1; provided, however, that if the Company shall default in the payment of interest due on such June 1 or December 1, then this Security shall bear interest from the next preceding June 1 or December 1 to which interest has been paid, or, if no interest has been paid on the Securities, from November 20, 2003. The interest so payable on any June 1 or December 1 will, subject to certain exceptions provided in the Indenture (the "Indenture") dated as of April 15, 1999, between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank (formerly The Chase Manhattan Bank), as Trustee (the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture with respect to the Securities of this series), be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the May 15 or November 15, as the case may be, next preceding such June 1 or December 1. The principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security are payable at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided that interest may be paid, at the option of the Company, by check mailed to the Person entitled thereto at its address on the Security Register. Any interest not punctually paid or duly provided for shall be payable as provided in said Indenture.
          This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of Securities of the Company designated as its 4 7/8% Notes Due 2013 (Securities of such series being hereinafter called the "Securities"), limited in aggregate principal amount to $300,000,000 issued and to be issued under the Indenture, to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.
          Except as otherwise provided in the Indenture, this Security will be issued in global form only registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee. This Security will not be issued in definitive form, except as otherwise provided in the Indenture, and ownership of this Security shall be maintained in book-entry form by the Depositary for the accounts of participating organizations of the Depositary.
 
          No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin and currency, herein prescribed.
          The Securities will be redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Company's option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities then outstanding to be redeemed or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Securities to be redeemed (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the applicable treasury rate plus 12.5 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to the redemption date.
     "Treasury rate" means, with respect to any redemption date: (i) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded U.S. Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the comparable treasury issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the remaining life (as defined below), yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the comparable treasury issue will be determined and the treasury rate will be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month) or (ii) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the comparable treasury issue, calculated using a price for the comparable treasury issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the comparable treasury price for such redemption date.
     The treasury rate will be calculated by the independent investment banker on the third business day preceding the date fixed for redemption.
          "Comparable treasury issue" means the U.S. Treasury security selected by an independent investment banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term ("remaining life") of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining life of the Securities.
 
          "Comparable treasury price" means (1) the average of five reference treasury dealer quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest reference treasury dealer quotations, or (2) if the independent investment banker obtains fewer than four such reference treasury dealer quotations, the average of all such quotations.
          "Independent investment banker" means either J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. or Credit Suisse First Boston LLC, as specified by the Company, or, if these firms are unwilling or unable to select the comparable treasury issue, an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company.
          "Reference treasury dealer" means (1) J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Credit Suisse First Boston LLC and their respective successors, provided, however, that if either of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New York City (a "primary treasury dealer"), the Company will substitute therefor another primary treasury dealer and (2) any other primary treasury dealer selected by the Company after consultation with the independent investment banker.
          "Reference treasury dealer quotations" means, with respect to each reference treasury dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the independent investment banker, of the bid and asked prices for the comparable treasury issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the independent investment banker at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
          The Company will mail a notice of redemption to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed by first-class mail at least 30 and not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. Unless the Company defaults on the payment of the redemption price, interest will cease to accrue on the Securities or portions thereof called for redemption on the redemption date. If fewer than all of the Securities are to be redeemed, the Trustee will select, not more than 60 days prior to the redemption date, the particular Securities or portions thereof for redemption from the Outstanding Securities not previously called by such method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate.
          Section 4.03 (including subparagraph (4) thereof and clause (B), but not clause (A), of such subparagraph) and Section 10.10 (including subparagraph (5) thereof) of the Indenture contain provisions applicable to this Security that provide for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and certain Events of Default upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein.
 
          As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, this Security may be registered for transfer on the Security Register of the Company, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company, the Trustee and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the registered Holder hereof or its attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
          The Company may, from time to time, without notice to or the consent of the Holders of the Securities, increase the aggregate principal amount of the Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture and issue such increased principal amount (or any portion thereof), in which case any additional Securities so issued will have the same form and terms (other than the date of issuance and, under certain circumstances, the date from which interest thereon will begin to accrue), and will carry the same right to receive accrued and unpaid interest, as the Securities previously issued, and such additional Securities will form a single series with the Securities.
          The Securities are issuable only as Registered Securities in denominations of integral multiples of $1,000. As provided in the Indenture, and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Registered Securities of different authorized denominations, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
          No service charge will be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
          The Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company or the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
          If an Event of Default, as defined in the Indenture, with respect to the Securities shall occur, the principal of all the Securities may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
          The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities under the Indenture at any time by the Company with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of
 
the then Outstanding Securities of this series and of each other series issued under the Indenture and affected by such amendment or modification. The Indenture also permits the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities, to waive certain past defaults under the Indenture with respect to the Securities and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver shall be conclusive and binding upon the Holder of this Security and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof whether or not a notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
          No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of or the interest on this Security, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect hereof, or based on or in respect of the Indenture or any indenture supplemental thereto, against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any successor Person, either directly or through the Company, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issue hereof, expressly waived and released.
          Except as otherwise defined herein, all terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
          This Security shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of New York and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of said State.
          Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee by the manual signature of one of its authorized officers, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under said Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated: November 20, 2003
SEAL
[
]
Attest:
          This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.


