FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20030520132900.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c)  Exhibits.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On May 20, 2003, the Registrant will begin distribution of the investor brochure attached as Exhibit 99 relating to the Registrant and its business.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this Current Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
 
 
 
5/20/03
 
Comparable Net Sales is a non-GAAP measure and reflects year to year (most recent period GAAP) performance based on our current businesses. It is equal to net sales excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, spirits & wine excise taxes, interim Absolut sales, and results from divestitures in both periods. It includes the results from acquisitions in the prior period. In assessing this measure, investors should note that the net impact of acquisitions and divestitures, the impact of foreign exchange as well as the impact of excise taxes and interim Absolut sales have been excluded in order to provide an additional measure to investors seeking to evaluate the Company's underlying financial performance from year to year.
 
Comparable operating income is a non-GAAP measure and reflects year to year (most recent period GAAP) performance based on our current businesses. It excludes restructuring and restructuring-related items, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, spirits & wine excise taxes on net sales, and results of divestitures in both periods. It includes results from acquisitions in the prior period. Amortization of intangibles 1996-2002 is based on current intangible values and current FAS 142 goodwill accounting (adopted 1/1/02). In assessing this measure, investors should note that the net impact of restructuring and restructuring-related items, the writedown of intangibles, acquisitions and divestitures, and foreign exchange have been excluded, as well as amortization expenses has been restated, in order to provide and additional measure to investors seeking to evaluate the Company's underlying financial performance from year to year.
 
Diluted EPS before charges and gains is a non-GAAP measure and indicates the underlying performance of our businesses prior to costs associated with our restructuring initiatives, writedowns of intangibles or goodwill, tax credits or charges, gains or losses on divestitures, and assuming a 1/1/96 benefit from the net cash payment Gallaher made to us in connection with its spin-off on 5/31/97. Management believes that this measure is useful in analyzing the Company's performance from year to year. In assessing this measure, investors should note that the net impact of tax-related special items, restructuring and restructuring-related items, gains/losses on the sale of certain operations, writedowns of identifiable intangibles and goodwill, and the interim period benefit from the net cash payment received from Gallaher Group Plc have been excluded.
 
ROIC is a measure of after-tax Return On Invested Capital (ROIC). It represents the sum of net income before charges and gains plus after-tax interest divided by the 13-point average of the sum of total debt less cash plus total stockholders equity. The impact of improved returns attributable to current FAS 142 goodwill accounting and the writedowns of intangibles have been excluded by restating invested capital and net income as they would appear if current FAS 142 accounting had gone into effect and the writedowns had occurred on 1/1/96. Management believes that this measure is useful in analyzing the Company's performance from year to year. In assessing this measure, investors should note that Net Income excludes after-tax interest, the net impact of tax-related special items, restructuring and restructuring-related items, gains/losses on the sale of certain operations and writedowns of intangibles, and amortization expense has been restated to reflect current FAS 142 accounting (adopted 1/1/02) and intangible values. For further details on charges and gains, see the GAAP reconciliation of EPS Before Charges/Gains.
Free cash flow indicates the resources of our current business to invest in internal growth, make acquisitions, repay debt and repurchase stock. Management believes that this measure is useful in analyzing the Company's performance from year to year.


