FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20041209155850.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On December 8, 2004, Fortune Brands, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a material amendment of the Rights Agreement dated November 19, 1997 between the Company and EquiServe, Inc. (a successor to First Chicago Trust Company of New York) as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agreement"). The amendment, which is attached as Exhibit 4 and incorporated herein by reference, accelerates the Expiration Date of the rights from December 24, 2007 to December 24, 2004.
 
The Rights Agreement sets forth the conditions for exercise of the Company's Preferred Share Purchase Rights ("Rights"), which were established in order to help assure that all stockholders received full and fair value in the event the Company was ever subject to a takeover attempt. Each outstanding share of common stock currently has attached to it one Right. Under the plan, the Rights generally became exercisable only in the event of an acquisition of, or tender offer for, 15% or more of the common stock. If exercisable, each Right would have been exercisable for 1/100
th
of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock at an acquisition price of $150. Also, upon an acquisition of 15% or more of the common stock, or upon an acquisition of the Company or the transfer of 50% or more of its assets or earning power, each Right (other than Rights held by the 15% acquirer, if applicable), if exercisable, would generally have been exercisable for common shares of the Company (or the acquiring company, as the case may be) having a market value of twice the exercise price. In certain events, however, Rights would have been exchangeable by the Company for common stock at a rate of one share per Right. Prior to the amendment, the Rights were to expire on December 24, 2007.
 
The December 8, 2004 amendment has the effect of terminating the Rights Plan effective December 24, 2004.
 
Item 3.03.
Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
 
On December 7, 2004, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an amendment to Rights Agreement accelerating the expiration of the rights from December 24, 2007 to December 24, 2004, effectively terminating the rights plan. The amendment is attached as Exhibit 10a1.
 
On December 7, the Board of Directors also adopted the following rights plan policy, and included the policy as a new Section F(2) to the Company's Corporate Governance Principles, effective December 24, 2004:
 
"The Board shall obtain stockholder approval prior to adopting any stockholder rights plan; provided, however, that the Board may act on its own to adopt a stockholder rights plan if under the then current circumstances, in the reasonable business judgment of the Board (including a majority of the independent directors), adoption of a plan without prior stockholder approval is in the best interests of the stockholders or is otherwise
required by the Board's fiduciary duties. The retention of any plan so adopted by the Board will be submitted to a vote of stockholders as a separate ballot item at either the next subsequent annual meeting of Fortune Brands' stockholders or at a special meeting of stockholders within one year of the adoption of such plan and, if not approved by a majority of the votes cast on such issue, such plan will subsequently be terminated."
 
A summary of the Board's actions is included in the press release issued by the Company on December 7, 2004, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: December 9, 2004
 

Exhibit 4
 
 
AMENDMENT NO. 2, dated as of December 7, 2004, to the Rights Agreement dated as of November 19, 1997 (the "Rights Agreement") between Fortune Brands, Inc. (the "Company") and Equiserve, Inc. (as successor in interest to First Chicago Trust Company of New York), as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agent").
 
WHEREAS, the Company and the Rights Agent entered into the Rights Agreement, specifying the terms of the Rights (as defined therein); and
 
WHEREAS, on December 24, 2002, the Company and the Rights Agent entered into Amendment No. 1 of the Rights Agreement, in accordance with Section 27 of the Rights Agreement, in order to provide for a three-year independent director evaluation of the Rights; and
 
WHEREAS, the Company and the Rights Agent desire to amend the Rights Agreement, in accordance with Section 27 of the Rights Agreement, in order to change the Expiration Date, as defined in the Rights Agreement, from December 24, 2007 to December 24, 2004;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual agreements set forth in the Rights Agreement, Amendment No. 1 thereto, and this Amendment No. 2, the parties agree as follows:
 
1. Section 7 is amended by deleting subparagraph (b) in its entirety and replacing it with the following subparagraph (b):
 
(b) The registered holder of any Right Certificate may exercise the Rights evidenced thereby (except as otherwise provided herein)
in whole or in part at any time after the Distribution Date upon surrender of the Right Certificate evidencing such Rights, with the form of election to purchase on the reverse side thereof duly executed, to the Rights Agent at the principal office of the Rights Agent, together with payment of the Purchase Price for each one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share as to which the Rights are exercised, at or prior to the earliest of (i) the close of business on December 24, 2004 (the "Final Expiration Date"), (ii) the time at which the Rights are redeemed as provided in Section 23 hereof (the "Redemption Date"), or (iii) the time at which such Rights are exchanged as provided in Section 24 hereof.
 
2. Exhibit B of the Rights Agreement, the Form of Rights Certificate, is amended by deleting the first sentence of the Legend at the top of the Certificate in its entirety and replacing it with the following:
 
NOT EXERCISABLE AFTER DECEMBER 24, 2004 OR EARLIER IF REDEMPTION OR EXCHANGE OCCURS.
 
3. Exhibit C of the Rights Agreement, the Summary of Rights to Purchase Preferred Shares, is amended by deleting the fourth paragraph thereof in its entirety and replacing it with the following:
 
The Rights are not exercisable until the Distribution Date. The Rights will expire on December 24, 2004 (the "Final Expiration Date"), unless the Final Expiration Date is extended or unless the Rights are earlier redeemed or exchanged by the Company, in each case, as described below.
 
4. The term "Agreement" as used in the Rights Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the Rights Agreement as amended hereby.
 
5. This Amendment shall be effective as of the date first written above and, except as set forth above, the Rights Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall otherwise be unaffected hereby.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment No. 2 to be duly executed, all as of the date first written above.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
Contact:
 
 
Lincolnshire, IL, December 7, 2004  Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO) announced that its Board of Directors today voted to terminate the company's shareholder rights plan, commonly known as a "poison pill." Additionally, the company has established a new policy that requires shareholder approval for any future shareholder rights plan prior to or within twelve months of adoption.
 
"Our decision to terminate the plan and establish a new policy reflects being responsive to our shareholders," said Fortune Brands chairman & CEO Norm Wesley. "Our Board was among the first to adopt a Three-Year Independent Director Evaluation (TIDE) provision calling for a panel of independent directors to periodically review the shareholder rights plan. The Board has continued to weigh the sentiments of our shareholders and has determined that our new policy can adequately protect our shareholders' best interests."
 
The Board's action today will accelerate the expiration date of the company's current shareholder rights plan to December 24, 2004. It was due to expire in December 2007. The shareholder rights plan being terminated was put in place in 1997 to help assure that all shareholders received full and fair value in the event the company was ever subject to a takeover attempt.
 
 
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a $7 billion leading consumer brands company. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in home and hardware products, spirits and wine, golf equipment and office products. Home and hardware brands include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Schrock, Diamond and Omega cabinets, Therma-Tru door systems, Master Lock padlocks and Waterloo tool storage sold by units of Fortune Brands Home & Hardware, Inc. Major spirits and wine brands sold by units of Jim Beam Brands Worldwide, Inc. include Jim Beam and Knob Creek bourbons, DeKuyper cordials, The Dalmore single malt Scotch, Vox vodka and Geyser Peak and Wild Horse wines. Acushnet Company's golf brands include Titleist, Cobra and FootJoy. Office brands include Swingline, Wilson Jones, Kensington and Day-Timer sold by units of ACCO World Corporation. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Lincolnshire, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index.
 
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit www.fortunebrands.com.
 


