FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20050624171439.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.04 Temporary Suspension of Trading under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans.
 
Fortune Brands, Inc. ("Fortune Brands") will distribute in the form of a dividend to its stockholders all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of its subsidiary, ACCO World Corporation (the "Spin-off"). On June 24, 2005, Fortune Brands sent a notice to its directors and executive officers informing them that in connection with the Spin-off, there would be a blackout period under each of the Fortune Brands Retirement Savings Plan, the Fortune Brands Hourly Employee Retirement Savings Plan and the Future Brands Retirement Savings Plan (collectively, the "Plans"). This blackout period is expected to begin not earlier than July 22, 2005 and is expected to end the week of July 31, 2005.
 
The blackout periods are necessary in order to ensure accurate accounting and administration of the Plans as a result of the Spin-off. During the blackout periods, the directors and executive officers of Fortune Brands will be prohibited from directly or indirectly purchasing, selling or otherwise transferring certain equity securities of Fortune Brands.
 
A copy of the notice sent to Fortune Brands' directors and executive officers is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: June 24, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Date: June 24, 2005
 
 
As you are aware, later this summer Fortune Brands, Inc. will distribute in the form of a dividend to its stockholders all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of its subsidiary, ACCO World Corporation. In connection with the Spin-off, there will be "blackout" periods for each of the (1) Fortune Brands Retirement Savings Plan, (2) the Fortune Brands Hourly Employee Retirement Savings Plan and (3) the Future Brands Retirement Savings Plan during which participants in those Plans will be unable to engage in transactions under the Plans involving Fortune Common Stock. These blackout periods are necessary in order to ensure accurate accounting and administration of the Plans as a result of the Spin-off.
 
This notice is to inform you that, pursuant to Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, you will be unable to trade in Fortune Common Stock (including options and derivatives) during the blackout periods for each of the Plans when participants under those Plans will be prohibited from (1) directing or diversifying investments in their respective individual Plan accounts, (2) obtaining loans from any of the Plans or (3) obtaining distributions from any of the Plans.
 
SEC rules require that during such blackout periods, executive officers and directors are prohibited from directly or indirectly, purchasing, selling or otherwise transferring any equity security of the company (in this case, Fortune) acquired by the individual in connection with his or her service as an executive officer or director. "Equity securities" are defined broadly to include options and other derivatives. Covered transactions are not limited to those involving direct ownership, but include any transaction in which the executive officer or director has a pecuniary interest.
 
If you engage in a transaction that violates these rules, you can be required to disgorge your profits from the transaction, and you are subject to civil and criminal penalties.
 
We are obligated under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act to provide you with this notice, which contains specific information regarding the blackout periods. In addition, we are required to file this notice with the Securities Exchange Commission as part of a Form 8K.
We expect the following blackout periods to occur with respect to the employee plans:
 
Fortune Brands Retirement Savings Plan
 
The Blackout Period is expected to begin on as early as July 22, 2005, and is expected to end the week of July 31, 2005. During these weeks, you can determine whether the blackout period has started or ended by contacting the Fidelity Retirement Benefits Line at 1-800-835-5095 or online through Fidelity NetBenefits
at .
www.401k.com
 
Fortune Brands Hourly Employee Retirement Savings Plan
 
The Blackout Period is expected to begin as early as July 22, 2005, and is expected to end the week of July 31, 2005. During these weeks, you can determine whether the blackout period has started or ended by contacting the Fidelity Retirement Benefits Line at 1-800-835-5095 or online through Fidelity NetBenefits
at .
www.401k.com
 
Future Brands Retirement Savings Plan
 
The Blackout Period is expected to begin as early as July 22, 2005, and is expected to end the week of July 31, 2005. During these weeks, you can determine whether the blackout period has started or ended by contacting the Fidelity Retirement Benefits Line at 1-800-835-5095 or online through Fidelity NetBenefits
at .
www.401k.com
 
It is possible the expected dates of the Blackout Period will change. In this event, you will receive an updated notice.
 
Contact Information
 
If you have any questions about the blackout periods, please feel free to call Elizabeth Lane or me. Thank you.
 
 
 
ACCO World Corporation ("ACCO") has filed a Registration Statement on Form S-4/A with the Securities and Exchange Commission (Registration No. 333-124946) containing a preliminary proxy statement/prospectus-information statement regarding the proposed transaction. This material is not a substitute for the definitive proxy statement/prospectus-information statement ACCO and General Binding Corporation ("GBC") will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the transaction. Investors are urged to read the definitive proxy statement/prospectus-information statement which will contain important information, including detailed risk factors, when it becomes available. The definitive proxy statement/prospectus-information statement and other documents which will be filed by Fortune Brands, Inc., ACCO and GBC with the Securities and Exchange Commission will be available free of charge at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov, or by directing a request when such a filing is made to ACCO World Corporation, 300 Tower Parkway, Lincolnshire, IL, 60069, Attention: Investor Relations; or by directing a request when such a filing is made to General Binding Corporation, One GBC Plaza, Northbrook, IL, 60062, Attention: Investor Relations.
 
GBC, its directors, and certain of its executive officers may be considered participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transaction. Information about the participants in the solicitation will be set forth in the definitive proxy statement/prospectus-information statement when it becomes available.


