FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20050707132246.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On June 30, 2005, Fortune Brands, Inc. ("") issued a press release announcing, among other things, the early termination by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act for the review of the proposed acquisition by Fortune Brands or its subsidiaries of certain spirits and wines brands and related assets currently owned by Allied Domecq PLC ("") to be acquired by Fortune Brands or its subsidiaries from subsidiaries of Pernod Ricard SA ("") after Pernod Ricard completes its proposed acquisition of all the outstanding shares of Allied (the "").
Fortune Brands
Allied
Pernod Ricard
Allied Acquisition
 
On July 4, 2005, Fortune Brands issued a press release announcing, among other things, the approval by Allied shareholders of the Allied Acquisition and the anticipated closing of the Allied Acquisition on July 26, 2005.
 
On July 7, 2005, Fortune Brands issued a press release announcing, among other things, the expiration of the waiting period for the U.S. Federal Trade Commission to review the proposed acquisition by Fortune Brands or its subsidiaries of the Canadian Club Whiskey brand currently owned by Allied to be acquired by Fortune Brands or its subsidiaries from subsidiaries of Pernod Ricard after Pernod Ricard completes the Allied Acquisition.
 
Copies of the June 30, July 4 and July 7, 2005 press releases are included herein as Exhibit 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3, respectively and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: July 7, 2005
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Lincolnshire, IL, June 30, 2005  Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO) today announced that the U.S. Federal Trade Commission has granted early termination of the waiting period for the review of the majority of the company's proposed acquisition of several Allied Domecq spirits and wine brands, related production facilities and key distribution operations.
 
Coupled with the FTC's early termination today of the review period for Pernod Ricard's acquisition of Allied Domecq, the FTC's action enables Fortune Brands to purchase more than 20 spirits and wine brands, including Sauza tequila, Courvoisier cognac, Laphroaig single-malt Scotch and Clos du Bois wines. As announced on April 21
st
, Fortune Brands plans to purchase from Pernod Ricard several of the premium spirits and wine brands included in Pernod Ricard's proposed acquisition of Allied Domecq. Pernod Ricard shareholders approved the transaction earlier today.
 
The review required under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act remains in effect for Fortune Brands' purchase of the Canadian Club whisky and Maker's Mark bourbon brands, and Fortune Brands continues to work constructively with the FTC to complete the review process. The ongoing FTC review of the two brands will not prevent Pernod Ricard from acquiring Allied Domecq or Fortune Brands from closing its transaction with Pernod Ricard as to the other brands. If either or both brands remain under regulatory review as of the transaction's anticipated July 26
th
closing date, Fortune Brands would complete its purchase of other brands from Pernod Ricard on schedule. In the event the FTC review continues after the closing date, Canadian Club and Maker's Mark would continue to be owned and managed separately by Pernod Ricard and Pernod Ricard would receive the earnings on the brands. Fortune Brands would be compensated with interest payments pending transfer of the brands.
 
"We are delighted by this rapid regulatory progress and we look forward to working with the FTC to complete the review process," said Fortune Brands chairman and CEO Norm Wesley. "Our proposed transaction with Pernod Ricard is on track, we're working hard on integration plans and we're looking forward to completing the acquisition and adding all the brands to our portfolio."
 
Fortune Brands Announces U.S. Regulatory Progress on Proposed Spirits & Wine Acquisition, Page 2
 
Upon completion, the transaction will more than double Fortune Brands' spirits and wine sales, significantly expand its presence internationally, and place it among the top four spirits companies in the world. The company has already received antitrust clearance from the European Commission for the transaction.
 
The brands Fortune Brands plans to acquire include the global growth spirits brands Sauza, Maker's Mark, Courvoisier and Canadian Club, as well as Clos du Bois wines and leading national spirits brands and distribution operations in the United Kingdom, Spain and Germany markets. In addition to the Allied Domecq brands, the transaction also includes Larios, one of the world's leading gin brands, currently owned by Pernod Ricard.
 
The Pernod Ricard acquisition of Allied Domecq remains subject to Allied Domecq shareholder approval, the approval of English courts, necessary regulatory approvals and other customary conditions.
 
 
About Fortune Brands
 
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a $7 billion leading consumer brands company. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in home and hardware products, spirits and wine, golf equipment and office products. Home and hardware brands include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Schrock, Diamond and Omega cabinets, Therma-Tru door systems, Master Lock padlocks and Waterloo tool storage sold by units of Fortune Brands Home & Hardware, Inc. Major spirits and wine brands sold by units of Jim Beam Brands Worldwide, Inc. include Jim Beam and Knob Creek bourbons, DeKuyper cordials, Starbucks Coffee Liqueur, The Dalmore single malt Scotch, Vox vodka and Geyser Peak and Wild Horse wines. Acushnet Company's golf brands include Titleist, Cobra and FootJoy. Office brands include Swingline, Wilson Jones, Kensington and Day-Timer sold by units of ACCO World Corporation. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Lincolnshire, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index and the MSCI World Index.
 
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit .
www.fortunebrands.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains statements relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the company does not assume any obligation to update them. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to changes in general economic conditions, foreign exchange rate fluctuations, changes in interest rates, changes in commodity costs, returns on pension assets, competitive product and
 
Fortune Brands Announces U.S. Regulatory Progress on Proposed Spirits & Wine Acquisition, Page 3
 
pricing pressures, trade consolidations, the impact of excise tax increases with respect to distilled spirits, regulatory developments, the uncertainties of litigation, changes in golf equipment regulatory standards, the impact of weather, particularly on the home products and golf brands, increases in health care costs, the completion of the office products business spin-off and the proposed spirits and wine acquisition, challenges in the integration of acquisitions and joint ventures, including the proposed spirits and wine acquisition, as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lincolnshire, IL, July 4, 2005  Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO) is poised to become a new global leader in premium spirits and wine following the approval today by Allied Domecq shareholders of Pernod Ricard's acquisition of Allied Domecq. The approval clears a key condition for Fortune Brands to buy from Pernod Ricard several premium spirits and wine brands, related production facilities and key sales and distribution operations currently owned by Allied Domecq. Pernod Ricard shareholders provided necessary approvals last week. Pending remaining approvals and closing conditions, Pernod Ricard's acquisition of Allied Domecq and the related sale of brands and assets to Fortune Brands are scheduled to close on July 26
th
.
 
The brands and assets Fortune Brands is acquiring will expand and elevate the company's spirits and wine portfolio and increase its international presence while creating valuable distribution efficiencies and growth opportunities.
 
For Fortune Brands, the acquisition of premium global growth brands and leading national brands in priority markets includes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fortune Brands' Acquisition of Allied Domecq Spirits & Wine Brands on Track to Close July 26
th
, Page 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
These brands will build on a portfolio that already includes growing brands such as Jim Beam, the world's #1 bourbon; DeKuyper, the #1 line of cordials in the U.S; Knob Creek, the world's #1 small batch bourbon; Starbucks Coffee Liqueur; and the acclaimed Geyser Peak and Wild Horse California wine brands.
 
 
Upon completion of the acquisition, Fortune Brands and its Jim Beam Brands Worldwide subsidiary will:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"This acquisition will make us a new global leader in premium spirits and wine and create new growth opportunities in a high-return industry," said Fortune Brands chairman and CEO Norm Wesley. "We're particularly looking forward to welcoming to our family the people who have built these great brands into global and national leaders  they're some of the most dedicated, talented and experienced people in the industry. Together, we'll build on our success and deliver significant value for our shareholders."
 
As announced on April 21, the purchase price is approximately 2.8 billion British pounds (approximately 5.1 billion U.S. dollars at current exchange rates). The Pernod Ricard acquisition of Allied Domecq remains subject to the approval of English courts, necessary regulatory approvals and other customary conditions. Fortune Brands is working with the U.S. Federal Trade Commission to secure regulatory approval for the acquisition of the Canadian Club and Maker's Mark brands.
 
 
About Fortune Brands
 
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a $7 billion leading consumer brands company. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in home and hardware products, spirits and wine, golf equipment and office products. Home and hardware brands
 
Fortune Brands' Acquisition of Allied Domecq Spirits & Wine Brands on Track to Close July 26
th
, Page 3
 
include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Schrock, Diamond and Omega cabinets, Therma-Tru door systems, Master Lock padlocks and Waterloo tool storage sold by units of Fortune Brands Home & Hardware, Inc. Major spirits and wine brands sold by units of Jim Beam Brands Worldwide, Inc. include Jim Beam and Knob Creek bourbons, DeKuyper cordials, Starbucks Coffee Liqueur, The Dalmore single malt Scotch, Vox vodka and Geyser Peak and Wild Horse wines. Acushnet Company's golf brands include Titleist, Cobra and FootJoy. Office brands include Swingline, Wilson Jones, Kensington and Day-Timer sold by units of ACCO World Corporation. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Lincolnshire, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index and the MSCI World Index.
 
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit .
www.fortunebrands.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains statements relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the company does not assume any obligation to update them. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to changes in general economic conditions, foreign exchange rate fluctuations, changes in interest rates, changes in commodity costs, returns on pension assets, competitive product and pricing pressures, trade consolidations, the impact of excise tax increases with respect to distilled spirits, regulatory developments, the uncertainties of litigation, changes in golf equipment regulatory standards, the impact of weather, particularly on the home products and golf brands, increases in health care costs, the completion of the office products business spin-off and the proposed spirits and wine acquisition, challenges in the integration of acquisitions and joint ventures, including the proposed spirits and wine acquisition, as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
Lincolnshire, IL, July 7, 2005  Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO) today announced that the waiting period has expired for the U.S. Federal Trade Commission to review the company's proposed acquisition of Canadian Club, the #2 Canadian whisky brand in the world. The expiration of the waiting period required under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act clears a key condition for Fortune Brands' acquisition of Canadian Club to close on July 26
th
, along with more than 20 spirits and wine brands for which the FTC had already granted early termination of the waiting period.
 
As announced on April 21
st
, Fortune Brands will purchase from Pernod Ricard several of the premium spirits and wine brands included in Pernod Ricard's acquisition of Allied Domecq. The brands Fortune Brands plans to purchase include Sauza tequila, Courvoisier cognac, Canadian Club whisky, Maker's Mark bourbon, Laphroaig single-malt Scotch and Clos du Bois wines. The FTC is continuing its review of the company's proposed acquisition of the Maker's Mark brand, and Fortune Brands is continuing to work constructively with the FTC to secure regulatory approval to purchase Maker's Mark. As previously disclosed, continued regulatory review of Maker's Mark will not prevent Fortune Brands from completing its purchase of all other brands from Pernod Ricard on the anticipated July 26
th
closing date.
 
The Pernod Ricard acquisition of Allied Domecq remains subject to the approval of English courts, necessary regulatory approvals and other customary conditions.
 
 
About Fortune Brands
 
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a $7 billion leading consumer brands company. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in home and hardware products, spirits and wine, golf equipment and office products. Home and hardware brands include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Schrock, Diamond and Omega cabinets, Therma-Tru door systems, Master Lock padlocks and Waterloo tool storage sold by units of Fortune Brands Home & Hardware, Inc. Major spirits and wine brands sold by units of Jim
 
Fortune Brands Announces Regulatory Progress for Acquisition of Canadian Club Whiskey, Page 2
 
Beam Brands Worldwide, Inc. include Jim Beam and Knob Creek bourbons, DeKuyper cordials, Starbucks Coffee Liqueur, The Dalmore single malt Scotch, Vox vodka and Geyser Peak and Wild Horse wines. Acushnet Company's golf brands include Titleist, Cobra and FootJoy. Office brands include Swingline, Wilson Jones, Kensington and Day-Timer sold by units of ACCO World Corporation. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Lincolnshire, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index and the MSCI World Index.
 
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit .
www.fortunebrands.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains statements relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the company does not assume any obligation to update them. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to changes in general economic conditions, foreign exchange rate fluctuations, changes in interest rates, changes in commodity costs, returns on pension assets, competitive product and pricing pressures, trade consolidations, the impact of excise tax increases with respect to distilled spirits, regulatory developments, the uncertainties of litigation, changes in golf equipment regulatory standards, the impact of weather, particularly on the home products and golf brands, increases in health care costs, the completion of the office products business spin-off and the proposed spirits and wine acquisition, challenges in the integration of acquisitions and joint ventures, including the proposed spirits and wine acquisition, as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 


