FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20050808120926.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On August 4, 2005, Fortune Brands, Inc. ("Fortune") entered into (i) an Amendment to Distribution Agreement (the "Amendment to Distribution Agreement") with ACCO World Corporation, a subsidiary of Fortune ("ACCO"), to amend the Distribution Agreement, dated as of March 15, 2005, by and between Fortune and ACCO and (ii) an Amendment to Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Amendment to Merger Agreement") with ACCO, Gemini Acquisition Sub, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of ACCO ("Acquisition Sub"), and General Binding Corporation ("GBC"), to amend the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of March 15, 2005, by and among Fortune, ACCO, Acquisition Sub and GBC (the "Merger Agreement").
 
The Amendment to Merger Agreement and the Amendment to Distribution Agreement clarify certain aspects of the distribution to Fortune stockholders of all of the shares of ACCO common stock owned by Fortune (the "Distribution") and the subsequent merger of Acquisition Sub with and into GBC, with GBC as the surviving corporation (the "Merger") and modify certain procedures related to the closing of the Distribution and the Merger. Among other things, the Amendment to Merger Agreement amends the Merger Agreement so that the delivery of physical certificates for shares of ACCO common stock is not required.
 
The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment to Merger Agreement and the Amendment to Distribution Agreement which are filed as Exhibits 2.1 and 2.2 hereto, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
 
ACCO World Corporation has filed a Registration Statement on Form S-4 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (Registration No. 333-124946) containing the definitive proxy statement/prospectus-information statement regarding the proposed transaction. Investors are urged to read the definitive proxy statement/prospectus-information statement which contains important information, including detailed risk factors. The definitive proxy statement/prospectus-information statement and other documents filed by Fortune Brands, ACCO and GBC with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available free of charge at the SEC's website, www.sec.gov, or by directing a request to ACCO World Corporation, 300 Tower Parkway, Lincolnshire, IL, 60069, Attention: Investor Relations; or by directing a request to General Binding Corporation, One GBC Plaza, Northbrook, IL, 60062, Attention: Investor Relations.
 
GBC, its directors, and certain of its executive officers may be considered participants in the solicitation of proxies in connection with the proposed transaction. Information about the participants in the solicitation is set forth in the definitive proxy statement/prospectus-information statement.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: August 8, 2005
 

Exhibit 2.1
 
 
This AMENDMENT TO AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER (this ""), dated as of August 4, 2005, by and among FORTUNE BRANDS, INC., a Delaware corporation (""), ACCO WORLD CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (""), GEMINI ACQUISITION SUB, INC., a Delaware corporation (""), and GENERAL BINDING CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (""), is entered into to amend the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of March 15, 2005, by and among Fortune, ACCO, Acquisition Sub and GBC (the "") in the following particulars only:
Amendment
Fortune
ACCO
Acquisition Sub
GBC
Agreement
 
 
WHEREAS, Fortune, ACCO, Acquisition Sub and GBC desire to amend the Agreement as set forth herein;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the respective agreements and covenants hereinafter contained, the parties hereby agree as follows:
 
1. . Capitalized terms used in this Amendment and defined in the Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Agreement.
Definitions
 
2. . Section 1.1 of the Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
Amendment of Section 1.1
 
(a) The definition of the term "ACCO Common Stock Price" is hereby deleted and restated in its entirety as follows:
 
"' means the trading price per share of ACCO Common Stock trading "regular way" based on the first trade reported on the NYSE Composite Transactions reporting system on the first full NYSE trading day immediately following the Time of Distribution."
ACCO Common Stock Price
 
(b) The definition of the term "GBC Stock Plans" is hereby deleted and restated in its entirety as follows:
 
"' means, collectively, the General Binding Corporation 1989 Stock Option Plan, as amended and restated, the GBC 2001 Stock Incentive Plan for Employees and the GBC Non-Employee Directors 2001 Stock Option Plan."
GBC Stock Plans
 
(c) The definition of the term "Pre-Distribution Fortune Common Stock Price" is hereby deleted and restated in its entirety as follows:
 
"' means the trading price per share of Fortune Common Stock trading "regular way" (.., with due bills and including the value of the ACCO Common Stock to be distributed in respect thereof) based on the last trade reported on the NYSE Composite Transactions reporting system on the last full NYSE trading day immediately preceding the Time of Distribution (which may be the Distribution Date)."
Pre-Distribution Fortune Common Stock Price
i
e
 
3. . Section 2.5(b) of the Agreement is hereby deleted and restated in its entirety as follows:
Amendment of Section 2.5
 
"(b) All shares of GBC Common Stock and GBC Class B Common Stock converted into the right to receive ACCO Common Stock pursuant to this Article II shall no longer be outstanding and shall automatically be canceled and shall cease to exist, and each certificate or book-entry credit previously evidencing any such shares of GBC Common Stock or GBC Class B Common Stock (a "") shall thereafter evidence only the right to receive the number of whole shares of ACCO Common Stock (which shall be in uncertificated book-entry form) into which the shares of GBC Common Stock or GBC Class B Common Stock formerly evidenced by such GBC Certificate have been converted pursuant to this Section 2.5. GBC Certificates shall be exchanged for whole shares of ACCO Common Stock issued in consideration therefor upon the surrender of such GBC Certificates in accordance with Section 3.2, without any interest thereon. If between the date hereof and the Effective Time, the outstanding shares of GBC Common Stock or GBC Class B Common Stock shall have been increased, decreased, changed into or exchanged for a different number or kind of shares or securities as a result of a reorganization, recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split or other similar change in capitalization (other than solely as a result of the Merger), an appropriate and proportionate adjustment shall be made to the Exchange Ratio."
GBC Certificate
 
4. . Section 3.2 of the Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
Amendment of Section 3.2
 
(a) Section 3.2(a) of the Agreement is amended by deleting from the parenthetical in the second sentence thereof the phrase "unless a physical certificate is requested".
 
(b) Section 3.2(c) of the Agreement is deleted and restated in its entirety as follows:
 
"(c) If any book-entry credit evidencing shares of ACCO Common Stock is to be registered in a name other than that in which the GBC Certificate surrendered in exchange therefor is registered, it shall be a condition of the issuance thereof that the GBC Certificate so surrendered shall be properly endorsed (or accompanied by an appropriate instrument of transfer) and otherwise in proper form for transfer, and that the person requesting such exchange shall pay to the Exchange Agent in advance any transfer or other taxes required by reason of the issuance of a book-entry credit evidencing shares of ACCO Common Stock in any name other than that of the registered holder of the GBC Certificate surrendered, or required for any other reason, or shall establish to the satisfaction of the Exchange Agent that such tax has been paid or is not payable."
 
(c) The last sentence of Section 3.2(d) of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting therefrom the phrase "certificates representing".
 
5. . The last sentence of Section 7.16(a) of the Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety.
Amendment of Section 7.16(a)
 
6. . The Agreement shall not be amended or otherwise modified hereby except as set forth in Sections 2 through 5 of this Amendment. Except as expressly amended by Sections 2 through 5 of this Amendment, the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. In the event of any inconsistency or contradiction between the terms of this Amendment and the Agreement, the provisions of this Amendment shall prevail and control.
Interpretation
 
7. . On and after the date hereof, each reference in the Agreement to "this Agreement", "hereof", "herein", "herewith", "hereunder" and words of similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to the Agreement as amended hereby. No reference to this Amendment need be made in any instrument or document at any time referring to the Agreement, a reference to the Agreement in any such instrument or document to be deemed to be a reference to the Agreement as amended hereby.
Reference to the Agreement
 
8. . This Amendment may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties
Counterparts
 
and delivered to the other parties, it being understood that the parties need not sign the same counterpart.
 
9. . This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware (without giving effect to choice of law principles thereof).
Governing Law
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be signed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, all as of the date first written above.
 
 

Exhibit 2.2
 
 
This AMENDMENT TO DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of August 4, 2005, by and between FORTUNE BRANDS, INC., a Delaware corporation (""), and ACCO WORLD CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (""), is entered into to amend the Distribution Agreement, dated as of March 15, 2005, by and between Fortune and ACCO (the "") in the following particulars only:
Amendment
Fortune
ACCO
Agreement
 
 
WHEREAS, Fortune and ACCO desire to amend the Agreement as set forth herein;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the respective agreements and covenants hereinafter contained, the parties hereby agree as follows:
 
1. . Capitalized terms used in this Amendment and defined in the Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Agreement, as amended hereby.
Definitions
 
2. . Section 1.01 of the Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
Amendment of Section 1.01
 
(a) The definition of the term "ACCO Cash" is amended by deleting the phrase "the day immediately preceding" from the fourth line thereof.
 
(b) The definition of the term "ACCO Option Dilution Amount" is hereby deleted and restated in its entirety as follows:
 
"' means the amount of dilution of ACCO Common Stock that would be attributed to Fortune Converted Options, calculated according to the treasury method and using an implied price for ACCO Common Stock equal to the GBC/ACCO Implied Market Price and assuming the conversion of all Fortune Options into Fortune Converted Options in accordance with Section 2.7 of the Merger Agreement, it being understood that, in accordance with the treasury method, no dilution shall be attributable to Fortune Converted Options that, based on the foregoing assumptions, will have an exercise price that is greater than or equal to the GBC/ACCO Implied Market Price."
ACCO Option Dilution Amount
(c) The definition of the term "Distribution Date Intercompany Loan Balance" is hereby deleted and restated in its entirety as follows:
 
"' means the net sum of the aggregate amounts outstanding and owed by the Fortune Group to the ACCO Group or the ACCO Group to the Fortune Group under intercompany cash management loan accounts between Fortune and its Subsidiaries, on one hand, and ACCO and its Subsidiaries, on the other hand, immediately prior to cancellation thereof pursuant to clause (A) and clause (B) of Section 2.04(b)(i)."
Distribution Date Intercompany Loan Balance
 
(d) The definition of the term "GBC Fully Diluted Shares" is hereby deleted and restated in its entirety as follows:
 
"' means the number of fully diluted shares of GBC Common Stock outstanding at the Effective Time (including in respect of GBC Class B Common Stock, options to purchase GBC Common Stock and GBC Restricted Stock Units (each as defined in the Merger Agreement)), calculated according to the treasury method and using an implied price for GBC Common Stock equal to the GBC/ACCO Implied Market Price, it being understood that, in accordance with the treasury method, no dilution shall be attributable to options to purchase GBC Common Stock that have an exercise price that is greater than or equal to the GBC/ACCO Implied Market Price."
GBC Fully Diluted Shares
 
(e) The definition of the term "Record Date" is hereby deleted and restated in its entirety as follows:
 
"' means the close of business on the date to be determined by the Fortune Board as the record date for determining stockholders of Fortune entitled to receive the Distribution."
Record Date
 
(f) The definition of the term "Signing Date Intercompany Loan Balance" is amended by deleting the phrase "the day immediately preceding" from the third line thereof.
 
3. . The first sentence of Section 2.02 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the word "immediately" therefrom.
Amendment of Section 2.02
 
4. . Section 2.04 of the Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
Amendment of Section 2.04
 
(a) Section 2.04(b)(i) of the Agreement is hereby deleted and restated in its entirety as follows:
 
"(i) (A) On a date preceding the Distribution Date to be determined by Fortune, all intercompany cash management loan balances between Fortune and its Subsidiaries, on one hand, and ACCO and its Subsidiaries, on the other hand, shall be canceled, and (B) effective immediately prior to the Time of Distribution, all intercompany cash management loan balances between Fortune and its Subsidiaries, on one hand, and ACCO and its Subsidiaries, on the other hand, that have accrued since the time of such previous cancellation shall be canceled, in each case, subject to any payments that may be required pursuant to this Section 2.04(b)."
 
(b) Section 2.04(b)(iv) of the Agreement is hereby deleted and restated in its entirety as follows:
 
"(iv) ACCO and Fortune acknowledge that the provisions of this Section 2.04(b) are intended to implement the agreement of the parties that (A) cash generated by the ACCO Group on and prior to the date hereof is for the benefit of ACCO's stockholders as of the date hereof and (B) cash generated by the ACCO Group following the date hereof through the Time of Distribution is for the benefit of ACCO and ACCO's stockholders following the Distribution. Liability for taxes in respect of cash and earnings of ACCO during each such period is addressed in the Fortune/ACCO Tax Allocation Agreement. ACCO and Fortune further acknowledge that prior to the Time of Distribution they may cause ACCO Cash (including ACCO Cash held by non-US Subsidiaries of ACCO) to be transferred to Fortune provided that applicable intercompany cash management loan accounts between Fortune and its Subsidiaries, on one hand, and ACCO and its Subsidiaries, on the other hand, are adjusted accordingly."
 
5. . Section 2.07 of the Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the phrase "the day immediately preceding" from the last line thereof.
Amendment of Section 2.07
 
6. . The Agreement shall not be amended or otherwise modified hereby except as set forth in Sections 2 through 5 of this Amendment. Except
Interpretation
 
as expressly amended by Sections 2 through 5 of this Amendment, the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. In the event of any inconsistency or contradiction between the terms of this Amendment and the Agreement, the provisions of this Amendment shall prevail and control.
 
7. . On and after the date hereof, each reference in the Agreement to "this Agreement", "hereof", "herein", "herewith", "hereunder" and words of similar import shall, unless otherwise stated, be construed to refer to the Agreement as amended hereby. No reference to this Amendment need be made in any instrument or document at any time referring to the Agreement, a reference to the Agreement in any such instrument or document to be deemed to be a reference to the Agreement as amended hereby.
Reference to the Agreement
 
8. . This Amendment may be executed in separate counterparts, each such counterpart being deemed to be an original instrument, and all such counterparts will together constitute the same amendment.
Counterparts
 
9. . This Amendment will be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Delaware applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such State, without regard to the conflicts of law principles of such State.
Governing Law
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Amendment has been duly executed and delivered by the duly authorized officers of the parties as of the date first hereinabove written.
 
 
 


