FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20051012172621.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
 
This Form 8-K/A amends Item 9.01 of the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Fortune Brands, Inc. (the "Company") on August 2, 2005 (the "August Form 8-K"), regarding the completion of the acquisition of certain Purchased Assets described in the August Form 8-K. This amendment provides the audited historical financial statements of the businesses acquired as required by Item 9.01(a) and the unaudited pro forma financial information required by Item 9.01(b), which financial statements and information were not included in the August Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
The audited Combined Statement of Net Assets to be Sold of the Allied/Fortune Assets as of July 25, 2005 and August 31, 2004 and the related Combined Statements of Revenues and Direct Expenses for the ten months and 25 day period ended July 25, 2005 and the years ended August 31, 2004 and 2003, and the accompanying notes thereto (the "Allied/Fortune Financial Statements").
 
Report of Independent Auditors on the Allied/Fortune Financial Statements.
 
 
Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Balance Sheet of the Company as of June 30, 2005 and Condensed Combined Statements of Income for the six month period ended June 30, 2005 and year ended December 31, 2004 and the accompanying notes thereto (the "Pro Forma Financial Information").
 
Introduction to the Pro Forma Financial Information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: October 12, 2005
 

Exhibit 23
 
 
The Board of Directors
Fortune Brands, Inc:
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference in (a) the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-87260) relating to the 2002 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-103734) relating to the Fortune Brands Retirement Savings Plan, the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-103736) relating to the Fortune Brands Hourly Employee Retirement Savings Plan, the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 33-58865) relating to the 1990 Long Term Incentive Plan of Fortune Brands, Inc., the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-95909) relating to the 1999 Long Term Incentive Plan of Fortune Brands, Inc., the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-51173) relating to the Fortune Brands, Inc. Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-103735) relating to the Future Brands LLC Retirement Savings Plan, the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-124448) relating to the 2005 Non-Employee Director Stock Plan, the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 333-115350) relating to the Fortune Brands, Inc. 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the prospectuses related thereto, and (b) the Registration Statement and Post-Effective Amendment on Form S-3 (Registration Nos. 333-113855 and 333-76371) of Fortune Brands, Inc. of our report dated October 10, 2005 with respect to the Combined Statements of Net Assets to be Sold of the Allied/Fortune Assets as of July 25, 2005 and August 31, 2004 and the related Combined Statements of Revenues and Direct Expenses for the ten months and 25 day period ended July 25, 2005 and for each of the years in the two-year period ended August 31, 2004, which report appears in the Form 8-K/A of Fortune Brands, Inc. dated October 12, 2005
 
 
 
 
 
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
London, England
October 10, 2005

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements relate to the acquisition by Fortune Brands, Inc. ("Fortune Brands" or the "Company") of several spirits and wine brands, distribution businesses and related assets and liabilities ("Allied/Fortune Assets") from Pernod Ricard S.A. ("Pernod"). On July 26, 2005, a subsidiary of the Company acquired tracker shares in Goal Acquisitions Limited ("Goal") that convey economic rights, for a subscription price of approximately 2.7 billion ($4.9 billion). Goal is an indirect subsidiary of Pernod, which was formed to acquire all of the shares of Allied Domecq PLC ("Allied").
 
The Allied/Fortune Assets are owned by Goal subsidiaries and will be legally transferred to one or more subsidiaries of Fortune Brands over a six month period beginning July 26, 2005. The number of outstanding tracker shares will be reduced as assets are legally transferred. The cost of the acquisition is subject to change based on purchase price adjustments to reflect the historical profit of the brands to be purchased and working capital levels as of July 26, 2005. In addition, the transaction was structured so that the Company has contractual rights relating to certain management and operations of the Allied/Fortune Assets (other than Maker's Mark) until they are legally transferred.
 
The purchase of the Larios gin brand and associated assets directly from an affiliate of Pernod Ricard closed in a separate transaction on September 8, 2005. The Larios acquisition cost was $0.1 billion, and due to immateriality is excluded from the pro forma combined financial statements.
 
The historical financial information of Fortune Brands set forth below has been derived from the historical audited and unaudited consolidated financial statements of Fortune Brands included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and the Quarterly Report filed on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2005. The unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet was prepared as if the acquisition and legal transfer of the Allied/Fortune Assets occurred as of June 30, 2005. The unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of income were prepared as if the acquisition and legal transfer of the Allied/Fortune Assets occurred as of January 1, 2004. The pro forma financial statements, however, should not be deemed to represent future results of operations or the financial position of Fortune Brands.
 
The Allied/Fortune Assets most recent fiscal year end is August 31, 2004. Since the Allied/Fortune Assets and Fortune Brands most recent fiscal year ends differ by more than 93 days, the Securities and Exchange Commission rules require that the reporting periods be more closely aligned for the purpose of preparing pro forma financial information. As a result, the pro forma statement of income was prepared by combining the Fortune Brands statements of income for the year ended December 31, 2004 and the six months ended June 30, 2005 with the Allied/Fortune Assets statements of revenues and direct expenses for the twelve months ended February 28, 2005 and the five months and 25 days ended July 25, 2005, respectively. The impact of including February 2005 in both the twelve months ended February 28, 2005 and five month and 25 day period ended July 25, 2005 for the Allied/Fortune Assets is not material because February 2005 sales (approximately $100 million) align closely with an average month of sales and results from operations for either period would not change materially by shifting one month. For the pro forma balance sheet, the Fortune Brands quarter ended June 30, 2005 was combined with the July 25, 2005 closing date statement of net assets to be sold for the Allied/Fortune Assets.
 
The reporting currency of the Allied/Fortune Assets is the pound sterling. The historical combined statement of net assets to be sold of the Allied/Fortune Assets as of July 25, 2005 was translated into U.S. dollars at the closing exchange rate on that date of 1.7459 U.S. dollars to one pound sterling. The historical combined statements of revenues and direct expenses of the Allied/Fortune Assets for the year ended February 28, 2005 and the five months and 25 days ended July 25, 2005 were translated into U.S. dollars at the average exchange rate for the related period of 1.8396 and 1.8557 U.S. dollars to one pound sterling, respectively. These translations should not be construed as a representation of the U.S. dollar amounts actually corresponding to these pound sterling amounts.
 
Historically, the Allied/Fortune Assets were an integrated business within the Spirits and Wine segment of Allied and had no separate legal or operational reporting status. Furthermore, separate audited financial statements were not prepared for the Allied/Fortune Assets. As a result, the combined statements of net assets to be sold and the combined statements of net revenues and direct expenses were derived from the historical accounting records of Allied including estimated allocation of certain expenses, such as sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. Certain other expenses and income such as corporate overheads, interest income and expense, and income taxes were excluded from the combined statements of net assets to be sold and combined statements of revenues and direct expenses, as it is not practical to isolate or allocate these expenses to the business. Therefore, the Allied/Fortune Assets combined statements of revenues and direct expenses are not indicative of future financial position or results of operation of the business. For additional information, refer to the unaudited pro forma financial information on the Allied/Fortune Assets in Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K/A.
 
The unaudited pro forma financial information presented does not purport to represent what the results of operations or financial position of Fortune Brands would actually have been had the acquisition occurred on the dates noted above, or to project the results of operations or financial position of Fortune Brands for any future periods. The pro forma adjustments are based on available information and certain assumptions that management believes are reasonable. The adjustments are directly attributable to the transaction and are expected to have a continuing impact on the financial position and results of operations of Fortune Brands. The pro forma adjustments include estimates of the allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. As of the date of this filing, Fortune Brands has engaged independent valuation specialists to complete the appraisals necessary to determine the fair market value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed of the Allied/Fortune Assets, however a final determination of the allocation of the purchase price has not yet been completed. The final purchase price allocation may differ from the pro forma amounts reflected herein. In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary to present fairly the unaudited pro forma financial information have been made. However, the Company has not yet had sufficient access to the books, records and personnel of the Allied/Fortune assets to evaluate, among other things, the existing disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls over financial reporting of the Allied/Fortune Assets. In addition, some or all of the Allied/Fortune Assets may be legally transferred to the Company through sales of stock or mergers, rather than asset sales, resulting in contingent liabilities (and contingent indemnity rights) that might ultimately require reserves or disclosure in the financial statements or notes to financial statements of the Company.
 
The unaudited pro forma financial information also gives effect to the spin-off of the Company's ACCO World Corporation business, which was completed on August 16, 2005. The spin-off is not reflected in the Company's historical balance as of June 30, 2005 and the statements of income for the six months ended June 30, 2005 and the year ended December 31, 2004. See the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 22, 2005 for additional information concerning the adjustments and assumptions used in connection with the spin-off of that business.
 
The Company expects to incur restructuring charges as a result of the acquisition. Where factually supportable, estimated costs are included in the pro forma adjustments. Additional restructuring costs will be recorded when factually supportable information is available in order to estimate these costs. In addition, some costs for the Company's integration plans are not included in the purchase price allocation but will be charged to the statement of income as incurred over the next year. The pro forma adjustments do not reflect any operating efficiencies or cost savings that may be achievable with respect to the combined business of Fortune Brands and the Allied/Fortune Assets.
 
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial information should be read in conjunction with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the historical financial statements and related notes thereto of Fortune Brands included in the 2004 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Quarterly Report filed on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2005.
 
The acquisition of the Allied/Fortune Assets will be accounted for in accordance with FAS 141, "Business Combinations" and FIN 46(R), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities." Accordingly, effective July 26, 2005, the financial results associated with the assets and liabilities will be included in the consolidated statements of income and cash flows of Fortune Brands and the assets and liabilities, where appropriate, will be included on the consolidated balance sheet.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRO FORMA BALANCE SHEET ADJUSTMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
Fortune Brands engaged third party valuation specialists to value the acquired assets. Until completion of the third party valuations, which are currently in progress, the estimated fair values, related amortization periods, and amortization expense are subject to change. The following table summarizes (in millions) the estimated identifiable intangible assets by category and the average amortization periods.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRO FORMA INCOME STATEMENT ADJUSTMENTS FOR THE SIX-MONTH PERIOD ENDED JUNE 30, 2005 AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The interest rate on the fixed rate debt is expected to be approximately 4.75%. Pro forma interest rate on commercial paper was determined based on the Fortune Brands interest rate for the six months ended June 30, 2005, adjusted for the credit rating subsequent to the acquisition. As a result, a commercial paper interest rate of 2.885% was used for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004 and the six months ended June 30, 2005.
 
A change in the interest rate of one-fourth of one percent would affect interest expense, net of taxes, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004 as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
To the Board of Directors of Fortune Brands, Inc.
 
We have audited the accompanying Combined Statements of Net Assets to be Sold of the Allied/Fortune Assets as of July 25, 2005 and August 31, 2004 and the related Combined Statements of Revenues and Direct Expenses for the ten months and 25 day period ended July 25, 2005 and for each of the years in the two-year period ended August 31, 2004. These combined special purpose financial statements are the responsibility of the Board of Directors of Fortune Brands, Inc. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these combined special purpose financial statements based on our audit.
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the Combined Statements of Net Assets to be Sold and the Combined Statements of Revenues and Direct Expenses are free of material misstatement. An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the Combined Statements of Net Assets to be Sold and the Combined Statements of Revenues and Direct Expenses, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the Combined Statements of Net Assets to be Sold and the Combined Statements of Revenues and Direct Expenses. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
The accompanying statements were prepared for the purposes of complying with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and for inclusion in the form 8-K/A of Fortune Brands, Inc. The presentation is not intended to be a complete presentation of the Allied/Fortune Assets financial position or results of operations.
 
In our opinion, the statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the combined net assets to be sold of the Allied/Fortune Assets as of July 25, 2005 and August 31, 2004, and the related combined revenues and direct expenses for the ten months and 25 day period ended July 25, 2005 and for each of the years in the two-year period ended August 31, 2004, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
 
KPMG Audit Plc
Chartered Accountants
London, England
10 October 2005
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Asset Purchase Agreement and Description of the Business
 
On April 21, 2005, Fortune Brands, Inc. (the) entered into a Framework Agreement (the ) with Pernod Ricard S.A. (the) in relation to a series of transactions and agreements. The Agreement was amended on July 24, 2005. The Agreement provides, among other things, for Fortune Brands (or its subsidiaries) to acquire from Pernod Ricard's subsidiaries certain spirits and wine brands, distribution and production businesses and related assets and liabilities previously owned by Allied Domecq PLC's ("Allied" or the "Company"), collectively referred to as the "Business" or the "Allied/Fortune Assets" herein, for an amount of approximately 2.7 billion, after:
"Buyer"
"Agreement"
"Seller"
 
 
 
      acquired by the Buyer or its subsidiaries; and
      retained by the Seller or its subsidiaries.
 
The Scheme became effective on July 26, 2005.
 
The Business is engaged in the production of international spirits and wine products and has a global distribution network dedicated to distributing the Business' brands and brands owned by third parties. The Business oversees and operates these production and distribution operations. The Business is comprised of the following brands, distribution businesses and production assets, (certain minor brands that the Buyer believes will be included in the acquisition, and the agreed consideration paid or payable are still under negotiations with the Seller, but have been included in these financial statements):
 
Brands
Sauza
Maker's Mark
Laphroaig
Courvoisier
Canadian Club
Castellana
Centenario
DYC
Fundador
Teachers
Cockburns
Harveys
Kuemmerling
Jacobi
Clos du Bois
California Wine Business (except Mumm Cuve Napa and Callaway)
 
Distribution Businesses
United Kingdom
Spain
Germany
Portugal
Canaries
 
 
 
Production Facilities (by Location)
Loretto, Kentucky  United States of America
Porto / Douro  Portugal
Jarnac - France
Jerez / Segovia  Spain
Bodenheim - Germany
Ardmore  United Kingdom
Port Ellen  United Kingdom
California  United States of America
Tequila / Guadalajara - Mexico
 
2. Basis of Presentation
 
The accompanying combined statements of net assets to be sold as of July 25, 2005 and August 31, 2004 and the combined statements of revenues and direct expenses for the ten months and twenty five days period ended July 25, 2005 and for each of the years in the two-year period ended August 31, 2004 of the Business have been prepared pursuant to the Agreement in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America in connection with the carve out of the Allied/Fortune Assets described below.
 
The Special Purpose Financial Statements have been prepared on a carve out basis in order to represent the net assets sold as well as revenues and direct expenses which have been derived from the historical records of Allied Domecq Plc and subsidiaries and reflect significant assumptions and allocations. The valuations of the separately identifiable net assets of the Business for the purpose of purchase accounting in accordance with SFAS No. 141 will, of course, differ from the values included in the combined statements of net assets to be sold.
 
Historically, the Business was an integrated business within the Spirits and Wine segment of Allied and had no separate legal or operational status. Furthermore, financial statements were not prepared for the Business. Accordingly, the accompanying combined statements of net assets to be sold and combined statements of revenues and direct expenses have been derived from the historical accounting records of Allied, including allocations of certain expenses. Certain other expenses and income such as corporate overheads, interest income and interest expense and income taxes have been excluded from the accompanying combined statements of revenues and direct expenses, as they are not directly associated with the revenue producing activities of the Business or it is not practical to isolate or allocate such indirect operating costs to the Business. Corporate overhead expenses include general costs incurred for administrative support such as expenses for legal, treasury, income taxes and executive management functions. The accompanying combined statements of net assets to be sold and statements of revenues and direct expenses are not indicative of the Business had the business been operated as a separate, stand-alone entity and may not be indicative of the future financial position or results of operations of the Business due to the change in ownership, and the exclusion of various assets, liabilities and operating expenses, described herein. Given these constraints statements of financial position and cash flows have not been prepared. Management believes the methodologies used to allocate revenues and expenses to the Business are reasonable and represent appropriate methods of determining the revenues and direct expenses of the Business.
 
 
 
Principles of Combination
 
The combined special purpose financial statements were prepared to present only the historical balances of certain assets to be sold to and liabilities to be assumed by the Buyer pursuant to the Agreement; and the historical results of revenues and direct expenses related to the Business. All intercompany transactions between entities and operations within Allied have been eliminated. However, pursuant to the Agreement, the Buyer will not acquire the Business' receivables from or payables to Allied and its subsidiaries; therefore these balances are not reflected in the combined statements of net assets to be sold.
 
Combined Statements of Net Assets to be Sold
 
The assets and liabilities included in the accompanying combined statement of net assets to be sold are those assets and liabilities to be transferred to the Buyer. Pursuant to the Agreement, the Buyer shall acquire a percentage of the net working capital balances of Allied. This percentage is based on the relative operating direct brand contribution ("DBC") of the assets being acquired to the total Allied operating DBC. The current estimate of operating DBC for the Business is 27%. This DBC percentage is subject to an agreement process with the Seller, which is not yet finalized, as such the final DBC percentage may not equal 27%. This DBC percentage of 27%, has been used to allocate Allied's trade receivables, trade payables, prepaid expenses and accrued expenses to the accompanying combined statement of net assets to be sold. Pursuant to the Agreement an adjustment to the consideration already paid by the Buyer will be made to settle any difference with the actual aggregate net amount of working capital acquired; the amounts presented are management's best estimate at this time of the net amount of working capital acquired. All other assets, including inventory, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, included in the accompanying combined statement of net assets to be sold, are separately identifiable either on a brand-by-brand basis or on a location-by-location basis.
 
Combined Statements of Revenues and Direct Expenses
 
The combined statements of revenues and direct expenses include revenues and expenses directly attributable to the Business and allocations of expenses incurred by Allied that are associated with the revenue producing activities of the Business. The primary basis of allocation is as follows:
 
 
 
 
Management believes that all allocation methodologies are reasonable. The expenses incurred by Allied that are not specifically identifiable with the Business, but that have been allocated to the Business based on the methods described above, are reflected in the following table:
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows
 
During the years ended August 31, 2004 and 2003 and the ten months and twenty five days ended July 25, 2005, the Business's financing requirements were provided by Allied, and cash generated by the Business were transferred to Allied. As the Business has been historically managed as part of the operations of Allied and has not been operated as a stand-alone entity, statements of cash flows were not prepared for the Business. It is not practical to prepare historical cash flow information reflecting the Business's operating, investing, and financing cash flows.
 
Financial Instruments
 
The Business participates in Allied's hedging policies and activities which are coordinated by a centralized treasury function. Gains and losses arising from Allied's hedging activities have not been allocated to these combined special purposes financial statements as the activities are performed by a centralized treasury function. Allied has never entered into any financial instruments that are directly attributable to the Business. In addition, the Buyer is not assuming any financial instrument contracts.
 
3. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
 
Use of Estimates
 
The preparation of these combined special purpose financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the statements of net assets to be sold and the reported amounts of revenues and direct expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Also, as discussed in Note 2, the combined statements of revenues and direct expenses include allocations and estimates that are not necessarily indicative of the revenues, costs and expenses that would have resulted if the Business had been operated as a stand-alone entity.
 
 
 
Accounts Receivable and Allowances for Doubtful Accounts
 
Trade receivables are recorded at the stated amount less allowances for discounts, doubtful accounts and returns. Trade receivables do not include interest. The allowances represent estimated uncollectible receivables associated with potential customer defaults on contractual obligations. The allowances include amounts for certain customers where a risk of default has been specifically identified. In addition, the allowances include a provision for customer defaults on a general formula basis when it is determined the risk of some default is probable and estimable, but cannot yet be associated with specific customers. The assessment of the likelihood of customer defaults is based on various factors, including the length of time the receivables are past due, historical experience and existing economic conditions. The allowance for doubtful accounts was approximately 8 million and 7 million as of July 25, 2005 and August 31, 2004, respectively.
 
Inventory
 
Inventory is valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value in accordance with generally recognized trade practices. Cost comprises purchase price or direct production cost, together with duties and manufacturing overheads, and is determined by the weighted average cost method. Maturing inventory is classified as current assets although the majority of these inventories, due to the duration of the aging processes, ordinarily will not be sold within one year.
 
Property, Plant and Equipment
 
Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost. Depreciation is provided, principally on a straight-line basis, over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Gains or losses resulting from dispositions are included in income. Betterments and renewals, which improve and extend the life of an asset, are capitalized; maintenance and repair costs are expensed as incurred. Estimated useful lives of the related assets are as follows:
 
 
Long-Lived Assets
 
In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, ("FAS 144") a long-lived asset (including amortizable identifiable intangibles) or asset group is tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. When such events occur, the Business compares the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset or asset group to the carrying amount of a long-lived asset or asset group. If this comparison indicates that there is impairment, the amount of the impairment is recognised in an amount equal to the excess of the carrying value of the assets over its fair value. For the purposes of this calculation, fair value is typically calculated using discounted expected future cash flows. The discount rate applied to these cash flows is based on the Business's average cost of capital, risk adjusted where appropriate, which represents the blended after-tax costs of debt and equity.
"Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-lived Assets"
 
 
 
Indefinite-Lived Assets
 
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, ("FAS 141") and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, ("FAS 142"), requires purchased intangible assets other than goodwill to be amortized over their useful lives unless these lives are determined to be indefinite. Purchased brand names have been assigned an indefinite life as it was deemed that these trade names are currently anticipated to contribute cash flows to the Business indefinitely. Indefinite-lived intangible assets will not be amortized, but are required to be evaluated at each reporting period to determine whether the indefinite useful life is appropriate.
"Business Combinations"
"Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets"
 
The Business reviews indefinite-lived intangibles for impairment annually and whenever market or business events indicate there may be a potential impact on that intangible. The Business considers the implications of both external (e.g., market growth, pricing, competition, technology) and internal factors (e.g., product costs, margins, support expenses, capital investment) and their potential impact on cash flows for each business in both the near and long term, and their impact on any identifiable intangible asset associated with the business. Based on recent business results, consideration of significant external and internal factors, and the resulting business projections, indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed to determine whether they are likely to remain indefinite-lived, or whether a finite life is more appropriate. In addition, based on events in the period and future expectations, management considers whether the potential for impairment exists as required by FAS 142.
 
The Business's predominant method of approximating fair value in determining whether impairment exists is to use cash flow projections. The Business measures impairment based on discounted expected future cash flows attributable to the trade name compared to the carrying value of that trade name. The Business uses the relief-from-royalty approach. Fair value is represented by the present value of hypothetical royalty income over the remaining useful life.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
The Business derives revenues from the sale and distribution of spirits and wine products. The Business recognizes revenue as products are shipped to customers, net of applicable provisions for discounts, returns and allowances. Criteria for recognition of revenue are whether title and risk of loss have passed to the customer, persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured.
 
The Business applies the provisions of Emerging Issues Task Force 01-9 (), ". EITF 01-9 requires that certain cash incentives be recorded as a reduction of revenue. The Business enters into a wide range of commercial arrangements with its customers which include:
"EITF 01-9"
"Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer or a Reseller of the Vendor's Products
 
    slotting fees related to purchase of space display
    cooperative advertising arrangements such as customer managed promotions
 
Where no identifiable benefit is sufficiently separable from such arrangements the costs are treated as a reduction from revenue and recognized as incurred. These are measured at the invoiced amount.
 
 
 
Cost of Sales
 
Cost of sales include all variable and fixed costs associated with producing the Business's products, including raw materials, packaging supplies, direct labor, production related indirect labor, the cost of goods purchased from third parties and fixed asset overheads including depreciation.
 
Shipping and Handling Costs
 
Shipping and handling costs are included in the combined statements of revenues and direct operating expenses within cost of sales and sales, general and administrative expense.
 
Payments to Customers
 
The Business records certain payments to customers as a reduction of revenue in accordance with EITF 01-09. The Company recorded 78 million, 82 million and 82 million of consideration paid to customers as a reduction of revenue in the combined statement of revenues and direct expenses for the ten-month and twenty five days period ended July 25, 2005 and each of the years ended August 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
Advertising Costs
 
Advertising production costs are expensed the first time the advertising is made public. In addition to media advertising, other types of advertising and promotional costs are expensed as incurred. For the ten months and twenty five days period ended July 25, 2005, and for the years ended August 31, 2004 and 2003 total advertising costs, classified in sales, general and administrative expenses amounted to 81 million, 90 million and 79 million, respectively.
 
Foreign Currency Translation
 
The Business accounts for translation adjustments related to their investments in foreign entities in accordance with SFAS No.52, . Local currencies are considered the functional currencies outside of the U.S. Generally, income and expense items are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. For operations in local currency environments, assets and liabilities are translated at year end exchange rates with cumulative translation adjustments included as a component of net assets sold.
Foreign Currency Translation
 
Employee Benefit Plans
 
The Business participates in various employee benefit plans which are sponsored by Allied, including stock option, stock purchase, pension, savings, post-retirement and post-employment plans. Detailed information concerning the costs of these plans is not available for the Business, but is included as part of the labor costs allocated by Allied and reflected in direct operating expenses of the Business. The specific charges and obligations under these plans related to the Business are not separately identifiable. In accordance with SFAS No. 87, , the Business has accounted for pension expenses using the multi-employer accounting method. Under this method, if a subsidiary participates in a pension plan and assets and liabilities cannot be separately identified then such plans can be accounted for on a defined contribution basis.
Employers' Accounting for Pensions
 
Pursuant to the Agreement, outstanding options will not be assumed by the Buyer. Satisfying the terms of the outstanding option agreements to the Business' employees will remain the responsibility of the Seller.
 
 
 
4. Inventory
 
Inventory consists of the following:
 
 
5. Property, Plant and Equipment, Net
 
Property, Plant and Equipment, Net consist of the following:
 
 
6. Intangibles, net
 
The gross carrying value by class of intangible assets is as follows:
 
 
The Business performed the annual impairment test as of August 31 of each fiscal year and as of July 25, 2005. An impairment of 64 million on indefinite-lived intangible assets was recognized on August 31, 2004. In 2004, the German economy remained sluggish and the increased advertising and promotion spend on the Kuemmerling brand did not have the expected impact. By the end of 2004, volumes and profits generated by the brand had declined further. Consequently, Allied reassessed the Kuemmerling brand's expected future performance as part of Allied's 2004 impairment reviews and concluded that an impairment was required to be recognized.
 
 
 
7. Related Party Transactions
 
All transactions with affiliates arise in the normal course of the business. The following related party transactions were noted during the period ended:
 
 
8. Restructuring Charges
 
During the ten-month and twenty five days period ended July 25, 2005, reorganization and restructuring provisions relating to the Business charged in the period was approximately 3 million. The cost was employee related, across all areas of the Business, which was all utilized in the period. In addition, 2 million of charges relating to the year ended August 31, 2004 were utilized in the ten-month and twenty five days period ended July 25, 2005.
 
During the year ended August 31, 2004, reorganization and restructuring provisions relating to the Business charged in the year were approximately 9 million. The costs were employee-related, across all areas of the Business, of which 7 million was utilized during the year ended August 31, 2004. The remainder was fully utilized during the ten-month and twenty five days period ended July 25, 2005.
 
During the year ended August 31, 2003, reorganization and restructuring provisions relating to the Business charged in the year were approximately 3 million. The costs were employee-related, across all areas of the Business, of which all was utilized during the year.
 
 
 
9. Commitments and Contingencies
 
Leases
 
The Business leases plant, equipment, and warehouse and office space. At July 25, 2005, future minimum rental payments under non-cancelable operating leases were:
 
 
Total rent expense for all operating leases approximated 15 million, 12 million and 12 million for the ten month and twenty five days period ended July 25, 2005 and the years ended August 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 


