FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20050607172744.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.
Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
Registrant is furnishing its press release dated June 7, 2005, which reaffirmed its earnings guidance for the second quarter and the full year. The press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. Pursuant to general instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
 
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this Current Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: June 7, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
New York, NY, June 7, 2005  Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO), the consumer company behind leading brands including Moen, Titleist and Jim Beam, today reaffirmed its earnings guidance for the second quarter and the full year.
 
In remarks prepared for delivery to the Piper Jaffray Consumer Conference, Fortune Brands chairman and CEO Norm Wesley said: "We continue to see healthy consumer demand for our leading brands and broad-based growth across our brand portfolio. Our brand investments are paying off in successful new products that are adding to our top-line growth, and our strong volumes and operating efficiencies are adding to the bottom line.
 
"For both the second quarter and for the full year, we're continuing to target double-digit growth in earnings per share before charges/gains." The company's full-year guidance does not reflect the impact of the proposed spin-off of the company's office products business and the proposed acquisition of major spirits and wine brands.
 
 
About Fortune Brands
 
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a $7 billion leading consumer brands company. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in home and hardware products, spirits and wine, golf equipment and office products. Home and hardware brands include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Schrock, Diamond and Omega cabinets, Therma-Tru door systems, Master Lock padlocks and Waterloo tool storage sold by units of Fortune Brands Home & Hardware, Inc. Major spirits and wine brands sold by units of Jim Beam Brands Worldwide, Inc. include Jim Beam and Knob Creek bourbons, DeKuyper cordials, Starbucks Coffee Liqueur, The Dalmore single malt Scotch, Vox vodka and Geyser Peak and Wild Horse wines. Acushnet Company's golf brands include Titleist, Cobra and FootJoy. Office brands include Swingline, Wilson Jones, Kensington and Day-Timer sold by units of ACCO World Corporation. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Lincolnshire, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index and the MSCI World Index.
 
Fortune Brands Reaffirms Earnings Guidance, Page 2
 
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit .
www.fortunebrands.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains statements relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the company does not assume any obligation to update them. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to changes in general economic conditions, foreign exchange rate fluctuations, changes in interest rates, changes in commodity costs, returns on pension assets, competitive product and pricing pressures, trade consolidations, the impact of excise tax increases with respect to distilled spirits, regulatory developments, the uncertainties of litigation, changes in golf equipment regulatory standards, the impact of weather, particularly on the home products and golf brands, increases in health care costs, the completion of the office products business spin-off and the proposed spirits and wine acquisition, challenges in the integration of acquisitions and joint ventures, including the potential acquisition of certain spirits and wine brands, as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 


