FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20050728163602.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Fortune Brands, Inc. ("") has amended two material definitive agreements that were the subject of Fortune Brands' Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 27, 2005 (the "").
Fortune Brands
April Form 8-K
 
. On July 24, 2005, Fortune Brands entered into a Deed of Variation and an Amended and Restated Framework Agreement (the "") between Fortune Brands and Pernod Ricard S.A. ("") which amend and restate the Framework Agreement dated April 21, 2005 between Fortune Brands and Pernod Ricard (the ""). Reference is made to the April Form 8-K for a summary description of the material terms of the Framework Agreement.
1. Amended and Restated Framework Agreement
Restated Framework Agreement
Pernod Ricard
Framework Agreement
 
Among other things, the Restated Framework Agreement changes certain rights that Fortune Brands will have with respect to one of the spirits and wine businesses that is to be acquired by Fortune Brands (or subsidiaries of Fortune Brands) from Goal Acquisitions Limited, a Pernod Ricard subsidiary (""), after Goal acquires all the outstanding capital stock of Allied Domecq PLC (""), insofar as those rights relate to the period (the "") between the date the Allied stock is acquired by Goal and the date that business is actually sold to Fortune Brands (or subsidiaries of Fortune Brands) or to a third party. The business affected by the change is Maker's Mark (the ""). As a result of the amendments, during the Interim Period, Fortune Brands will no longer have:
Goal
Allied
Interim Period
Excluded Business
 
 
 
 
Instead of receiving tracker shares in respect of the Excluded Business, Fortune Brands will make an unsecured loan to Goal Acquisitions (Holdings) Limited, a Pernod Ricard subsidiary and parent company of Goal (""), in an amount equal to the portion of the initial total consideration that Fortune Brands and Pernod Ricard agreed would otherwise be paid for those tracker shares. During the Interim Period, Pernod Ricard will retain all management and control rights with respect to the Excluded Business, including the rights to appoint and remove directors, but agrees to manage the Excluded Business in the ordinary course. Fortune Brands will not receive any B shares in respect of any companies that own the Excluded Business, and therefore will not have any of the management, operational or veto rights associated with those shares (as described in the April Form 8-K). Fulham Acquisition Corp., a newly organized Delaware subsidiary of Fortune Brands (""), will acquire the tracker shares and B shares which Fortune Brands is entitled to receive under the Restated Framework Agreement in respect of spirits and wine businesses other than the Excluded Business.
Goal Holdings
FAC
 
These changes in the Framework Agreement were made as a result of discussions with the staff of the Federal Trade Commission in connection with its review under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the ""), of the acquisition of all the spirits and wine businesses to be acquired under the Framework Agreement. The waiting period under the HSR Act was terminated on June 30, 2005 with respect to Fortune Brands' acquisition of all of these businesses other than the Excluded Business and the Canadian Club business. The waiting period for the Canadian Club business expired on July 7, 2005. The Federal Trade Commission review is continuing with respect to the Excluded Business.
HSR Act
 
Following receipt by Fortune Brands of Hart-Scott-Rodino clearance to acquire the Excluded Business, the Excluded Business will be transferred to Fortune Brands or its subsidiaries. If Fortune Brands does not receive Hart-Scott-Rodino clearance to acquire the Excluded Business, Pernod Ricard will sell the Excluded Business to a third party and Fortune Brands will receive the proceeds of any such sale as repayment for the loan made to Goal Holdings with respect to the Excluded Business.
 
. Fortune Brands entered into an Amendment dated July 24, 2005 of the Credit Agreement dated as of April 21, 2005 among Fortune Brands, the lenders listed therein and Credit Suisse First Boston, as Administrative Agent (the ""). Reference is made to the April Form 8-K for a summary description of the material terms of the Credit Agreement.
2. Amendment of Credit Agreement
Credit Agreement
 
Among other things, the Credit Agreement was amended to allow Fortune Brands to use the proceeds of the credit facility to provide a loan to Goal Holdings as described above with respect to the Excluded Business, rather than acquire tracker shares issued by Goal in respect of the Excluded Business.
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On July 26, 2005, Fortune Brands issued a press release announcing the closing of a major spirits and wine transaction. A copy of the press release is included herein as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: July 28, 2005
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
Fortune Brands, Inc., 300 Tower Parkway, Lincolnshire, IL 60069
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lincolnshire, IL, July 26, 2005  Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO) today completed the transaction for the acquisition of more than 20 spirits and wine brands that will elevate the level of its portfolio, expand its international strength and make it a new global leader in premium spirits and wine. The brands and related assets are being acquired from Pernod Ricard following Pernod Ricard's acquisition of Allied Domecq completed earlier today.
 
Fortune Brands is acquiring some of the premier growth brands in the world, including Sauza tequila, Courvoisier cognac, Canadian Club whisky, Laphroaig single-malt Scotch and Clos du Bois wines. The company is also acquiring leading national brands in the U.K., Spain and Germany, Allied Domecq's distribution operations in those markets and for California wine, Pernod Ricard's Larios brand, and production facilities related to the brands.
 
The new brands will more than double revenue for the company's spirits and wine business and place it among the top four spirits companies in the world. The company will also be among the top five companies in super-premium U.S. wines. While there will be a transitional period not to exceed six months during which the assets will be transferred to Fortune Brands, the company will manage the brands and assets  and receive the profits and cash flows  as of the closing.
 
"This is a transformational acquisition for our spirits and wine business that creates significant value for our shareholders," said Fortune Brands chairman and CEO Norm Wesley. "With a broader, stronger portfolio and expanded international strength, our spirits and wine business will be a new global leader in premium spirits and wine with excellent prospects to accelerate growth."
 
Fortune Brands Closes Major Spirits & Wine Transaction, Page 2
 
Fortune Brands paid approximately 2.8 billion British pounds (approximately $5.0 billion U.S. dollars) at closing for the brands, related production facilities and the key distribution assets.
 
Among the premium global growth brands and leading national brands included in the acquisition are:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fortune Brands' agreement with Pernod Ricard also includes the purchase of the Maker's Mark bourbon brand, which remains subject to regulatory clearance in the United States. While the U.S. Federal Trade Commission conducts its review, Maker's Mark will be owned and managed by Pernod Ricard and Pernod Ricard will receive the earnings on the brand. Fortune Brands will be compensated with interest payments pending transfer of the brand.
 
 
Sauza, Courvoisier, Canadian Club, Teacher's, DYC and Larios are all among the top 100 premium spirits brands in the world by case volume. The acquired brands build on a portfolio that already includes growing brands such as Jim Beam, the world's #1 bourbon; DeKuyper, the #1 line of cordials in the U.S; Knob Creek, the world's #1 small batch bourbon; Starbucks Coffee Liqueur; and the acclaimed Geyser Peak and Wild Horse California wine brands.
 
As a result of the acquisition, Fortune Brands' spirits and wine business will be:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fortune Brands Closes Major Spirits & Wine Transaction, Page 3
 
"Adding these great brands and assets takes Jim Beam Brands to a new level," said Tom Flocco, president of Jim Beam Brands Worldwide, Fortune Brands' spirits and wine business.
 
"Our strategy for Jim Beam Brands going forward is simple. We'll invest in the continued growth of our leading spirits and wine brands with a strong emphasis on marketing. We'll leverage our broader, stronger portfolio to support brand growth. And we'll capitalize on new international growth opportunities. To achieve our goals, we'll rely on a powerful combination of talent from both Jim Beam Brands and Allied Domecq. We're excited to welcome to our family the teams of people who have helped build these brands into global and national leaders.
 
"The great global growth brands will build on the strong foundation we've established at Jim Beam Brands. Tequila is a fast-growing category and Sauza is one of the spirits industry's hottest brands  it'll be our second largest spirits brand. Courvoisier is an exciting growth brand that gives us an excellent position in cognac. Courvoisier is the category leader in the U.K. and it's #3 in the United States. As the world's #2 Canadian whisky, Canadian Club is a premier global growth brand. Laphroaig is one of the world's fastest-growing super-premium single-malt Scotch brands. We're looking forward to adding the fast-growing Maker's Mark brand following clearance from the FTC. And we'll become a major player in super-premium U.S. wines by adding several wineries including Clos du Bois, the #2 super-premium U.S. wine brand."
 
 
"The U.K., Spain and Germany are among the world's most important spirits markets, and the combination of the global brands, leading national brands and our current brands like Jim Beam will give us added scale and a more attractive portfolio that will improve our growth prospects in each market," Flocco added.
 
"We expect this acquisition to significantly strengthen our distribution around the world. In the U.S., our Future Brands distribution joint venture already drives the second highest case volume, and the addition of these brands will enhance the portfolio and create efficiencies of scale. In international markets, we're working with Maxxium and our partners in non-Maxxium markets to capitalize on the growth opportunities and efficiencies this acquisition offers," said Flocco.
 
 
"Spirits and wine is a profitable industry with excellent growth prospects, and we'll be well positioned to accelerate our growth in this business over the long term," said Wesley. "We believe the combination of profitable growth and cash-flow generation will deliver significant value for shareholders. Our returns are well in excess of our cost of capital, and we see this acquisition adding 25-35 cents to our diluted earnings per share in 2006. We expect to continue generating strong free cash flow, and our priority for the use of our free cash over the near term will be to pay down the debt we incur in this transaction."
 
Fortune Brands Closes Major Spirits & Wine Transaction, Page 4
 
Fortune Brands was advised on the transaction by Credit Suisse First Boston as financial advisor and Herbert Smith LLP as legal advisor.
 
 
About Fortune Brands
 
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a $7 billion leading consumer brands company. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in home and hardware products, spirits and wine, golf equipment and office products. Home and hardware brands include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Schrock, Diamond and Omega cabinets, Therma-Tru door systems, Master Lock padlocks and Waterloo tool storage sold by units of Fortune Brands Home & Hardware, Inc. Jim Beam Brands Worldwide, Inc. is the company's spirits and wine business. Major spirits and wine brands include Jim Beam and Knob Creek bourbons, Sauza tequila, Canadian Club whisky, Courvoisier cognac, DeKuyper cordials, Starbucks Coffee Liqueur, Laphroaig single malt Scotch, Vox vodka and Clos du Bois and Geyser Peak wines. Acushnet Company's golf brands include Titleist, Cobra and FootJoy. Office brands include Swingline, Wilson Jones, Kensington and Day-Timer sold by units of ACCO World Corporation. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Lincolnshire, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index and the MSCI World Index.
 
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit .
www.fortunebrands.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains statements relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the company does not assume any obligation to update them. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to changes in general economic conditions, foreign exchange rate fluctuations, changes in interest rates, changes in commodity costs, returns on pension assets, competitive product and pricing pressures, trade consolidations, the impact of excise tax increases with respect to distilled spirits, regulatory developments, the uncertainties of litigation, changes in golf equipment regulatory standards, the impact of weather, particularly on the home products and golf brands, increases in health care costs, the completion of the office products business spin-off and the spirits and wine acquisition, challenges in the integration of acquisitions and joint ventures, including the spirits and wine acquisition, as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
Acquisition Facts
 
 
Acquired Brands
 
Sauza tequila
Canadian Club whisky
Courvoisier cognac
Maker's Mark bourbon
(subject to regulatory approval)
Laphroaig Scotch whisky
Teacher's Scotch whisky
Cockburn's port
Harveys sherry
Larios gin
DYC whisky
Fundador brandy
Centenario brandy
Kuemmerling bitters
Jacobi brandy
 
Clos du Bois wine
Buena Visa wine
William Hill wine
Gary Farrell wine
J. Garcia wine
Jake's Fault wine
Haywood Estate wine
Atlas Peak wine
 
The figures presented are approximate, in particular as a result of:
 
 


