FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20050802113931.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
 
Fortune Brands, Inc. ("") has completed certain of the acquisitions contemplated by the Amended and Restated Framework Agreement (the "") between Fortune Brands and Pernod Ricard S.A. (""). Reference is made to the Fortune Brands' Current Reports on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 27, 2005 (the "") and July 28, 2005 (the "") for a summary description of the material terms of the Restated Framework Agreement.
Fortune Brands
Restated Framework Agreement
Pernod Ricard
April Form 8-K
July Form 8-K
 
As noted in the April Form 8-K and July Form 8-K, Fortune Brands subsidiaries will be acquiring various spirits and wine brands and related assets and liabilities now owned by subsidiaries of Goal Acquisitions Limited (""). Goal is a Pernod Ricard subsidiary that recently acquired all the shares of Allied Domecq PLC (""). The spirits and wine brands and related assets and liabilities that will be acquired by Fortune Brands subsidiaries under the Restated Framework Agreement (the "") include, among other things:
Goal
Allied
Purchased Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, Fortune Brands is acquiring the Larios business, primarily gin, directly from Pernod Ricard.
 
Fortune Brands expects to complete the acquisitions of the Purchased Assets on or before January 26, 2006, as title to the Purchased Assets (or securities of entities that own Purchased Assets) is transferred to Fortune Brands, although as noted above, the Federal Trade Commission review is continuing with respect to the acquisition of Maker's Mark. During this period, the Purchased Assets will be separated from other assets and liabilities acquired from Allied that are to be retained by Goal subsidiaries.
 
Fortune Brands, through its newly organized Delaware subsidiary Fulham Acquisition Corp. (""):
FAC
 
 
 
 
The total amount paid for the Goal tracker shares and Courvoisier Assets and the Maker's Mark Loan was 2,721,621,217 (or $4,816,217,036).
 
Except for the Courvoisier Assets, Fortune Brands has not completed the acquisition of any of the Purchased Assets.
 
However, for financial reporting purposes, the Purchased Assets generally will be treated as if the Purchased Assets were owned by Fortune Brands as of July 26, 2005. Until the Purchased Assets are transferred to Fortune Brands, financial reporting will be in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46(R), "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities." Accordingly, the financial results associated with the Purchased Assets will be included in the consolidated statements of income and cash flows of Fortune Brands effective July 26, 2005, and the Purchased Assets, where appropriate, will be included in the consolidated balance sheet, as if they were actually acquired on July 26, 2005. This includes Maker's Mark, which Fortune Brands will be required to consolidate under Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46(R), notwithstanding that Maker's Mark will be owned and managed by Pernod Ricard and Pernod Ricard will receive the earnings on the brand until those assets are actually transferred to Fortune Brands following satisfactory completion of Federal Trade Commission review of that acquisition.
 
The funds used to purchase the Courvoisier Assets and Goal tracker shares and to fund the Maker's Mark Loan are proceeds of loans made to Fortune Brands under the Credit Agreement dated as of April 21, 2005 among Fortune Brands, the lenders listed therein and Credit Suisse First Boston, as Administrative Agent (the ""). Reference is made to the April Form 8-K for a summary description of the material terms of the Credit Agreement.
Credit Agreement
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a) Financial Statements. The financial statements required by Item 9.01(a) are not included in this report. Fortune Brands intends to file these financial statements by an amendment within the time period permitted by this Item.
 
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information. Pro forma financial information required by Item 9.01(b) is not included in this report. Fortune Brands intends to file this pro forma financial information by an amendment within the time period permitted by this Item.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: August 2, 2005
 


