FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20060202172540.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 1.01.    Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On January 27, 2005 Fortune Brands, Inc. ("Fortune Brands") entered into an agreement ("Agreement") to supplement a July 24, 2005 Amended and Restated Framework Agreement ("Restated Framework Agreement") between Fortune Brands and Pernod Ricard S.A. The Agreement makes purchase price adjustments to the acquisitions contemplated by the Agreement with two principal adjustments: a payment to Pernod Ricard (199 million British pounds) primarily because the companies have determined that the brands acquired by Fortune Brands have higher actual historical earnings than anticipated prior to due diligence; and a payment to Fortune Brands (approximately 82 million British pounds) due to working capital adjustments. The resulting net payment by Fortune Brands of approximately 177 million British pounds (207 million US dollars) will bring Fortune Brands' total cost for the acquisition to approximately 5.2 billion US dollars.
 
The Agreement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 2.01.    Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
 
On January 27, 2005 Fortune Brands, Inc. ("Fortune Brands") substantially completed certain of the acquisitions contemplated by the Amended and Restated Framework Agreement (the "Restated Framework Agreement") between Fortune Brands and Pernod Ricard S.A. ("Pernod Ricard"). Reference is made to the Fortune Brands' Current Reports on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 2, 2005, April 27, 2005 and July 28, 2005 for a summary description of the material terms of the Restated Framework Agreement.
 
Fortune Brands acquired more than 25 spirits and wine brands, related production facilities and distribution operations in certain markets from Goal Acquisitions Limited ("Goal"). Goal is a Pernod Ricard subsidiary that acquired all of the shares of Allied Domecq PLC ("Allied").
 
The brands acquired by Fortune Brands include Sauza tequila, Maker's Mark bourbon, Canadian Club whisky, Courvoisier cognac, Laphroaig single malt Scotch and Clos du Bois wines. The company also acquired the former Allied Domecq distribution operations in the U.K., Spain and Germany, and for U.S. wines.
 
Fortune Brands also entered into an agreement on January 27, 2005 with Pernod Ricard to make purchase price adjustments for the acquisition (as described in Item 2.01 above). The company made two principal adjustments: a payment to Pernod Ricard (199 million British pounds) primarily because the companies have determined that the brands acquired by Fortune Brands have higher actual historical earnings than anticipated prior to due diligence; and a payment to Fortune Brands (approximately 82 million British pounds) due to working capital adjustments. The resulting net payment by Fortune Brands of approximately 177 million British
pounds (207 million US dollars) will bring Fortune Brands' total cost for the acquisition to approximately 5.2 billion US dollars.
 
The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
 
99.1    Agreement between Fortune Brands, Inc. and Pernod Ricard S.A. dated January 27, 2006.
 
99.2    Press Release of Fortune Brands, Inc. issued on January 31, 2006, filed herewith.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: February 2, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
26 January 2006
 
Dear Sirs
 
Framework Agreement entered into on 21 April 2005 between Fortune Brands, Inc. ("FB") and Pernod Ricard S.A. ("PR"), as amended by a deed of variation dated 24 July 2005 (the "Framework Agreement")
 
We write in relation to the DBC Adjustment and the Estimated Working Capital Statement.
 
Words and expressions defined in the Framework Agreement shall have the same meanings in this Agreement.
 
Following the discussions that have since taken place between us, we write to set out the following that has been agreed between FB and PR:
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
SETTLEMENT AND GENERAL
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
be dealt with at the Final Settlement which is to take place as soon as practicable after 28 February 2006 and in any event by not later than 15 March 2006.
 
We should be grateful if you would sign, date and return the enclosed copy of this letter agreement in confirmation of FB's agreement to its terms.
 
Yours faithfully
 
 
................................................
For and on behalf of Pernod Ricard S.A.
Emmanuel Babeau
Finance Director
 
We agree to the terms of this letter
 
 
................................................
For and on behalf of Fortune Brands, Inc.
Christopher J. Klein
Senior Vice President
 
3

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Fortune Brands, Inc., 520 Lake Cook Road, Deerfield, IL 60015
 
Contact:
 
 
 
 
Deerfield, IL, January 31, 2006  Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO), today announced that the legal transfer of spirits and wine assets purchased from Pernod Ricard on July 26, 2005 has been substantially completed. The acquisition includes more than 25 spirits and wine brands, related production facilities and distribution operations in certain markets.
 
"While we have already been managing, marketing and selling these brands, we are pleased to have substantially completed the formal transfer of assets from Pernod Ricard within the timeframe we envisioned," said Norm Wesley, chairman and chief executive officer of Fortune Brands. "As we mark this milestone, the integration of these brands and operations is progressing very well, and this high-return acquisition is on track to add 35 cents or more to Fortune Brands' earnings per share in 2006."
 
Fortune Brands also reported that the previously announced process for making final purchase price adjustments for the acquisition is nearing completion. The company anticipates two principal adjustments: a payment to Pernod Ricard (199 million British pounds) primarily because the companies have determined that the brands acquired by Fortune Brands have higher actual historical earnings than anticipated prior to due diligence; and a payment to Fortune Brands (approximately 82 million British pounds) due to working capital adjustments. The resulting net payment by Fortune Brands of approximately 117 million British pounds (207 million US dollars) will bring Fortune Brands' total cost for the acquisition to approximately 5.2 billion US dollars.
 
The brands acquired by Fortune Brands include Sauza tequila, Maker's Mark bourbon, Canadian Club whisky, Courvoisier cognac, Laphroaig single malt Scotch and Clos du Bois wines. The company also acquired the former Allied Domecq distribution operations in the U.K., Spain and Germany, and for U.S. wines. The acquisition expands the company's international presence and is expected to more than double the company's sales of spirits and wine.
 
 
 
Fortune Brands Announces Legal Transfer of Assets from Pernod Ricard, Page 2
 
About Fortune Brands
 
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a leading consumer brands company with annual sales exceeding $7 billion. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in home and hardware products, spirits and wine, and golf equipment. Home and hardware brands include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Omega, Diamond and Schrock cabinets, Therma-Tru door systems, Master Lock padlocks and Waterloo tool storage sold by units of Fortune Brands Home & Hardware LLC. Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. is the company's spirits and wine business. Major spirits and wine brands include Jim Beam and Maker's Mark bourbons, Sauza tequila, Canadian Club whisky, Courvoisier cognac, DeKuyper cordials, Starbucks Coffee Liqueur, Laphroaig single malt Scotch and Clos du Bois and Geyser Peak wines. Acushnet Company's golf brands include Titleist, Cobra and FootJoy. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index and the MSCI World Index.
 
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit .
www.fortunebrands.com
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains statements relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the company does not assume any obligation to update, amend or clarify them to reflect events, new information or circumstances occurring after the date of this release. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to changes in general economic conditions, foreign exchange rate fluctuations, changes in interest rates, changes in commodity costs, returns on pension assets, competitive product and pricing pressures, trade consolidations, the impact of excise tax increases with respect to distilled spirits, regulatory developments, the uncertainties of litigation, changes in golf equipment regulatory standards, the impact of weather, particularly on the home products and golf brands, increases in health care costs, challenges in the integration of acquisitions and joint ventures, including the spirits and wine acquisition and the related internal controls over financial reporting, as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 


