FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20060117130241.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
On January 13, 2006, Fortune Brands, Inc. issued a press release announcing the election of A.D. David Mackay to Fortune Brands' Board of Directors. Mr. Mackay was elected as a Class I member of the Board of Directors and his term of office will expire at the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders. There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Mackay and any other persons pursuant to which he was elected as a director. Fortune Brands has not yet named Mr. Mackay to any committee of the Board of Directors, but the company expects that it will name him to the Audit and Corporate Responsibility Committees. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: January 17, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Fortune Brands, Inc., 300 Tower Parkway, Lincolnshire, IL 60069
 
 
 
Lincolnshire, IL, January 13, 2006  Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO), a leading consumer brands company, today announced that A.D. David Mackay has been elected to its Board of Directors.
 
Mr. Mackay, 50, is president and chief operating officer of Kellogg Company, the world's leading producer of cereal and a leading producer of convenience foods. Mr. Mackay also serves on the Kellogg Company Board of Directors, and prior to assuming his current position, he led the company's US, UK and Australia operations. In addition to his 15 years at Kellogg Company, Mr. Mackay has served as managing director of Sara Lee Australia.
 
"We are delighted to add to our Board a respected business leader with such tremendous experience in the global consumer packaged goods arena," said Norm Wesley, chairman and chief executive officer of Fortune Brands. "We believe David's insights and experience will serve our shareholders well, and on behalf of his fellow directors, I'm pleased to welcome him to the Board of Fortune Brands."
 
The election is effective today and increases the size of the Board to eleven members.
 
Mr. Mackay is a resident of Portage, Michigan and holds a bachelor of business degree from Charles Stuart University in Australia.
 
 
About Fortune Brands
 
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a leading consumer brands company with annual sales exceeding $7 billion. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in home and hardware products, spirits and wine, and golf equipment. Home and hardware brands include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Omega, Diamond and Schrock cabinets, Therma-Tru door systems, Master Lock padlocks and Waterloo tool storage sold by units of Fortune Brands Home & Hardware LLC. Jim Beam Brands Worldwide, Inc. is the company's spirits and wine business. Major spirits and wine brands include Jim Beam
 
Fortune Brands Elects Kellogg President & COO David Mackay to Board of Directors, Page 2
 
and Maker's Mark bourbons, Sauza tequila, Canadian Club whisky, Courvoisier cognac, DeKuyper cordials, Starbucks Coffee Liqueur, Laphroaig single malt Scotch and Clos du Bois and Geyser Peak wines. Acushnet Company's golf brands include Titleist, Cobra and FootJoy. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Lincolnshire, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index and the MSCI World Index.
 
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit .
www.fortunebrands.com
 


