FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20060223171250.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 23, 2006, Fortune Brands, Inc. will present to security analysts objectives and strategies for building shareholder value and is furnishing its press release dated February 23, 2006 which reaffirmed its earnings guidance for the first quarter and the full year. Pursuant to General Instruction B.2., the information set forth in Item 7.01 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The company is furnishing this Form 8-K to give broad disclosure to such information.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 23, 2006
 

 
 
 
Operating Margin Before Charges is a non-GAAP measure and reflects the year to year performance of our businesses. It is equal to operating income as a percentage of net sales excluding restructuring and restructuring-related items with the amortization of intangibles over the entire period 1996-2005 based on current intangible values and current FAS 142 goodwill accounting (adopted 1/1/02). Management believes that this measure is useful in analyzing the Company's performance from year to year. In assessing this measure, investors should note that the net impact of restructuring and restructuring-related items and the writedown of intangibles have been excluded, as well as amortization expense has been restated, in order to provide an additional measure to investors seeking to evaluate the Company's underlying performance from year to year. Office products is excluded as a discontinued operation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure and it indicates the resources of our current business to invest in internal growth, make acquisitions, repay debt and repurchase stock. Management believes that this measure is useful in analyzing the Company's performance from year to year.
 
The table below lists the current growth rate targets for Operating Income Before Charges and Operating Income on a GAAP basis for the Company's Spirits & Wine segment for 2006.
 
Operating Income Before Charges is Operating Income derived in accordance with GAAP excluding any non-recurring items.
Operating Income Before Charges is a measure not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management uses this measure to determine the returns generated by operating segments and to evaluate and identify cost-reduction initiatives. Management believes this measure provides investors with helpful supplemental information regarding the underlying performance of the Company from year-to-year. This measure may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Scottsdale, AZ, February 23, 2006  At the Consumer Analyst Group of New York (CAGNY) conference today, Fortune Brands chairman and CEO Norm Wesley highlighted the value-creating portfolio realignment that has sharpened the company's focus and the brand-building initiatives that underpin Fortune Brands' confident outlook for 2006.
"Fortune Brands has undergone dramatic change since we last presented at the CAGNY conference three years ago," Wesley said. "To create long-term value, we've realigned our portfolio by expanding our highest return business and spinning off our office products business. With accelerated investment in consumer insights, new product development and marketing, we're building the strength of our leading brands and gaining share in key markets. At the same time, we've delivered consistently strong results, and an investment in Fortune Brands has doubled in value over the past three years. We look ahead with confidence and see another year of double-digit growth in EPS before charges/gains in 2006."
"The significant strategic moves of 2005 have made us a stronger company. These moves build on a solid foundation of internal growth driven by brand building, which remains our first priority," Wesley added.
Recent brand-building successes and ongoing initiatives include:
 
 
 
 
Fortune Brands Outlines Growth Strategy, Page 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"In 2006, we'll benefit from internal growth and two acquisitions: the spirits and wine brands we purchased last summer, as well as the pending acquisition of Simonton Windows. We're delighted with the pace of the integration of the spirits and wine brands, which are expanding the quality of our portfolio and boosting our international strength. We continue to expect these brands will increasingly add to earnings throughout the year, benefiting 2006 EPS by 35 cents or more. We're also excited about the upcoming addition of Simonton Windows, a fast-growing brand that is benefiting from favorable trends in materials conversion and energy efficiency. We expect the acquisition of Simonton and its accompanying millwork brands to add 6-8 cents to EPS in the first 12 months after the deal closes."
"Moving forward as a more sharply-focused, high-performance consumer brands company, we'll adhere to the four-point strategy that has served us so well:
 
 
 
 
 
Fortune Brands Outlines Growth Strategy, Page 3
"Fortune Brands is already off to a good start in 2006," Wesley added. "For the first quarter, we're targeting EPS before charges/gains to be up mid-to-high single-digits  and that includes the impact of stock options expense on 2006 results. For the full year, including stock options expense of approximately 18 cents per share, we expect to once again achieve double-digit growth in EPS before charges/gains.
"With our realigned portfolio and strength in attractive consumer markets, we feel well positioned to trade at a higher multiple. At Fortune Brands, we look forward to creating value, building brands and delivering results," Wesley concluded.
About Fortune Brands
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a leading consumer brands company with annual sales exceeding $7 billion. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in home and hardware products, spirits and wine, and golf equipment. Home and hardware brands include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Omega, Diamond and Schrock cabinets, Therma-Tru door systems, Master Lock padlocks and Waterloo tool storage sold by units of Fortune Brands Home & Hardware LLC. Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. is the company's spirits and wine business. Major spirits and wine brands include Jim Beam and Maker's Mark bourbons, Sauza tequila, Canadian Club whisky, Courvoisier cognac, DeKuyper cordials, Starbucks Coffee Liqueur, Laphroaig single malt Scotch and Clos du Bois and Geyser Peak wines. Acushnet Company's golf brands include Titleist, Cobra and FootJoy. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index and the MSCI World Index.
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit www.fortunebrands.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the company does not assume any obligation to update, amend or clarify them to reflect events, new information or circumstances occurring after the date of this release. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to: competitive market pressures (including product and
 
Fortune Brands Outlines Growth Strategy, Page 4
 
pricing pressures); consolidation of our trade customers and increased private-label products, particularly in the home and hardware industry; successful development of new products and processes; ability to secure and maintain rights to intellectual property; risks pertaining to strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, including the spirits and wine acquisition and the related integration of internal controls over financial reporting; ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; various external conditions, including general economic conditions, weather and business conditions; risks associated with doing business outside the United States, including currency exchange rate risks; interest rate fluctuations; commodity and energy price volatility; costs of certain employee and retiree benefits and returns on pension assets; dependence on performance of wholesale distributors and other marketing arrangements; the impact of excise tax increases on distilled spirits and wines; changes in golf equipment regulatory standards and other regulatory developments; potential liabilities, costs and uncertainties of litigation; impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles; the fact that our historical consolidated financial statements may not be indicative of future conditions and results due to our recent portfolio realignment; any possible downgrades of the Company's credit ratings; as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
This press release includes guidance for earnings per share before charges/gains, a measure not derived in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). On a GAAP basis, the company is targeting EPS from continuing operations to grow in the mid-to-high single-digit range for the first quarter and at a strong double-digit rate for the full year, benefiting from lower charges/gains in 2006.


