FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20060302171216.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Fortune Brands, Inc. (the "Company") has long maintained the incentive programs described below. These programs reward achievement of key performance measures  including growth in earnings per share and strong returns  that increase value for shareholders.
Annual Executive Incentive Bonus
On February 27, 2006, the Compensation and Stock Option Committee (the "Committee") of the Company's Board of Directors established performance goals under the Company's Annual Executive Incentive Compensation Plan for 2006. The Plan covers officers of the Company holding the office of Vice President or a more senior office. The Committee established as a performance goal an incentive pool of 2.5% of 2006 adjusted net income (defined generally as the Company's net income from continuing operations) from which bonuses will be paid. The Committee allocated a percentage of the pool to each participant in the plan.
After 2006 adjusted net income is determined, the Committee will approve the actual bonuses. The Committee has discretion to award bonuses that are less than the percentage of the pool allocated to each participant, and generally approves bonuses that range from 0% to 200% of a target bonus amount. The target bonus amount is a percentage of base salary. Based on current salaries of participants, if 100% of the target bonus amount is paid, 23.6% of the incentive pool will be used. If 200% of the target bonus amount is paid, 47.2% of the incentive pool will be used. The percentage of the target bonus amount awarded is based primarily on the Company's earnings per share results, but in no event can bonuses exceed a participant's allocated percentage of the pool.
The allocated percentage of the pool is: 13.5% for Norman H. Wesley, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and 7.5% for Craig P. Omtvedt, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Mark A. Roche, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, Christopher J. Klein, Senior Vice President  Strategy and Corporate Development and Mark Hausberg, Senior Vice President  Finance and Treasurer. The target bonus amount is 110% for Mr. Wesley; 75% for Mr. Omtvedt; 60% for Messrs. Roche and Klein; and 50% for Mr. Hausberg.
Long-Term Incentive Plan
On February 27, 2006, the Committee also established performance goals for performance awards under the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plan for the performance period 2006-2008. The Committee granted performance awards to executive officers for the 2006-2008 performance period contingent upon the Company achieving specified ending annual return on invested capital and cumulative diluted earnings per share targets over the performance period. Executive officers will be paid the target number of shares if the Company achieves 100% of the target ending annual return on invested capital and cumulative earnings per share. An additional amount of shares will be paid if the Company exceeds the targeted ending annual return on invested capital and cumulative earnings per share goals, but the maximum number of shares paid will not exceed 150% of the target amount. If the minimum ending annual return on invested capital and cumulative earnings per share goals are not achieved, no shares will be paid. The chart attached as Exhibit 10.1 of this report further illustrates how payouts are determined. The forms of Notice of Award and Terms and Conditions attached as Exhibit 10.2 describe the terms and conditions applicable to the performance awards.
The target number of shares is: 32,000 for Mr. Wesley; 13,000 for Mr. Omtvedt; 8,600 for Messrs. Roche and Klein; and 3,400 for Mr. Hausberg.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
Fortune Brands' Corporate Governance Principles provide that directors retire from the Board at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders following the director's 71
st
birthday. In accordance with this policy, Mr. Gordon R. Lohman was scheduled to retire on April 25, 2006. ACCO Brands Corporation, which was spun off from Fortune Brands in August 2005, asked Mr. Lohman to serve on its board of directors until April 2007. Due to Mr. Lohman's commitment to ACCO Brands' board and his continued exceptional value to Fortune Brands' board, on February 28, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors voted an exception to the retirement age policy and requested that Mr. Lohman continue to serve as a director of the Company until the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, currently scheduled for April 24, 2007.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 2, 2006
 

Exhibit 10.1
 

Exhibit 10.2
(Date)
Company: Company
Minimum Performance Award (2006 - 2008 Period): Shares*
            
Target Performance Award (2006 - 2008 Period): Shares
            
Maximum Performance Award (2006 - 2006 Period): Shares**
            
Date of Grant:
PERSONAL AND CONFIDENTIAL
(Name and Address)
Dear (Salutation):
We are pleased to inform you that, as a key employee of the company referred to above, you have been granted a performance award by the Compensation and Stock Option Committee of the Board of Directors under the Fortune Brands, Inc. 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan").
The award is granted under and governed by the Plan and the Performance Stock Award Terms and Conditions (the "Terms"). Your performance award will be comprised of shares of Common Stock of Fortune Brands, Inc.
Your award is based on the achievement by Fortune Brands and its consolidated subsidiaries of the average per share targets set forth in the attached Matrix. The minimum and maximum ending annual return on invested capital and earnings per share targets for the performance period are also set forth in the attached Matrix.
For your information, we have attached to this notice the following documents: (1) the Terms, (2) the Plan, and (3) the Matrix. You should review these documents carefully in order to fully understand how your award operates and your rights as an award recipient.
. If you have any questions about your award, please contact XXXXXX, Stock Plans Administrator, at (847) 484-XXXX.
Under the terms of the Plan, you do need to sign and return, or otherwise acknowledge your receiving, this notice
not
Sincerely yours,
 
You have been granted a performance stock award under the Fortune Brands, Inc. 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan").
The date of the grant, the minimum performance award, the target performance award and the maximum performance award are listed at the top of your Notice of Performance Stock Award. The average per share targets and the minimum and maximum ending annual return on invested capital and earnings per share targets for the performance period are set forth in the Matrix attached to your Notice of Performance Stock Award.
1. Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 5 through 13 below, the number of shares of Common Stock of Fortune Brands, Inc. ("Fortune") payable to you pursuant to your award shall be determined as follows:
Number of Shares Payable Pursuant to Award.
(a) If the Ending Annual Return on Invested Capital and Cumulative Earnings Per Share (as determined pursuant to paragraph 2) of Fortune and its consolidated subsidiaries (the "Company") for the performance period equals the minimum goal for that performance period as set forth in the attached Matrix, the number of shares payable to you will be your minimum performance award set forth on the first page of this letter.
(b) If the Ending Annual Return on Invested Capital and Cumulative Earnings Per Share (as determined pursuant to paragraph 2) of the Company for the performance period equals or exceeds the maximum goal for that performance period as set forth in the attached Matrix, the number of shares payable to you will be your maximum performance award set forth on the first page of this letter.
(c) If the Ending Annual Return on Invested Capital and Cumulative Earnings Per Share (as determined pursuant to paragraph 2) of the Company for the performance period exceeds the minimum goal for the performance period, but is less than the maximum goal for the performance period, the number of shares payable to you will be interpolated between the goals set forth in the attached Matrix within the range in which the Ending Annual Return on Invested Capital and Cumulative Earnings Per Share fall.
(d) No shares shall be payable for any performance period if the Ending Annual Return on Invested Capital and Cumulative Earnings Per Share (as determined pursuant to paragraph 2) for the performance period is less than the minimum goal for that performance period.
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 5 through 13, the shares of Common Stock of Fortune payable to you pursuant to this performance award with respect to any performance period shall be paid by Fortune as soon as practicable after the end of that performance period and after receipt of the accountants' letter for that performance period pursuant to paragraph 14 below.
2. . "Ending Annual Return on Invested Capital" for any performance period means adjusted net income in the last year of the performance period divided by average invested capital for the same period. "Cumulative Earnings Per Share" means the cumulative diluted earnings per share of Fortune during the performance period, adjusted to eliminate restructuring and other nonrecurring charges and credits (including all related costs and expenses).
Determination of Ending Annual Return on Invested Capital and Cumulative Earnings Per Share
3. . Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12 and 13, with respect to the performance period you shall be paid, on the date of payment of any shares with respect to the performance period pursuant to paragraph 1, a cash Dividend Equivalent that is equal to the amount of the cash dividends that would have been declared on that number of shares actually paid to you if such shares had been issued and outstanding on any record date for the payment of any cash dividends on Common Stock of Fortune during the performance period and prior to the date of payment of such shares. Such Dividend Equivalent shall be paid, subject to paragraph 16, on the date of payment of such shares pursuant to paragraph 1. Payment of any Dividend Equivalent shall be made by delivery to you of a check of Fortune in the amount of such Dividend Equivalent or in such other manner as is determined by the committee of the Board of Directors of Fortune administering the Plan (which is currently the Compensation and Stock Option Committee, or "Committee").
Dividend Equivalents
4. . This performance award shall not be transferable by you otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
Transferability of Award
5. . If your employment by the Company terminates during any performance period by reason of your death, disability, retirement under a retirement plan of the Company or the elimination of your position, you will be entitled to receive as soon as practicable after the end of that performance period and after receipt of the
Termination of Employment for Death, Disability, Retirement or Elimination of Position
accountants' letter for that performance period pursuant to paragraph 14 a payment of the number of shares of Common Stock, if any, that would otherwise be payable pursuant to paragraph 1. Also in the event of such a termination of employment, you will be paid, on the date of payment of any shares paid pursuant to the preceding sentence, the Dividend Equivalents that would have been declared on that number of shares actually paid to you if such shares had been issued and outstanding on any record date during the performance period and prior to the date of payment of such shares, and you will not be entitled to be credited with or to receive any other Dividend Equivalents.
6. . Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs 9 through 13 below, if your employment by the Company terminates during a performance period other than by reason of your death, disability, retirement under a retirement plan of the Company or the elimination of your position, you will not be entitled to any payment of shares pursuant to paragraph 1 with respect to that performance period and will not be entitled to receive payment pursuant to paragraph 3 of any Dividend Equivalent.
Termination of Employment for Other Reasons
7. . If you engage in detrimental activity at any time (whether before or after termination of your employment), you will not be entitled to any payment of shares or Dividend Equivalents hereunder and you will forfeit all rights with respect to these payments. For purposes of this paragraph 7, "detrimental activity" means willful, reckless or grossly negligent activity that is determined by the Committee to be detrimental to or destructive of the business or property of the Company. Any such determination of the Committee shall be final and binding for all purposes. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no payment under the Plan shall be forfeited or become not payable by virtue of this paragraph 7 on or after the date of a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan).
Forfeiture of Award for Detrimental Activity
8. . Fortune shall not be obligated to deliver any shares until they have been listed (or authorized for listing upon official notice of issuance) upon each stock exchange upon which are listed outstanding shares of the same class as that of the shares subject to the award and until there has been compliance with such laws or regulations as Fortune may deem applicable. Fortune agrees to use its best efforts to effect such listing and compliance. No fractional shares (or any cash payment in lieu thereof) will be delivered and the number of shares to be delivered will be rounded up or down to the nearest whole share.
Stock Exchange Listing; Fractional Shares
9. . For the purposes of this Agreement, (a) a transfer of your employment from Fortune to a subsidiary or vice versa, or from one subsidiary to another, without an intervening period, shall not be deemed a termination of employment, and (b) if you are granted in writing a leave of absence, you shall be deemed to have remained in the employ of Fortune or a subsidiary during such leave of absence.
Transfer of Employment; Leave of Absence
10. . Prior to each issuance of shares of by the Committee to the effect Common Stock payable hereunder, you shall make such representations as may be required that such shares are to be held for investment purposes and not with a view to or for resale or distribution except in compliance with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and shall, if required by the Committee, give a written undertaking to Fortune in form and substance satisfactory to the Committee that you will not publicly offer or sell or otherwise distribute such shares other than (a) in the manner and to the extent permitted by Rule 144 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Act, (b) pursuant to any other exemption from the registration provisions of the Securities Act or (c) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act.
Investment Representations
11. . (a) In the event of any merger, consolidation, stock or other non-cash dividend, extraordinary cash dividend, split-up, spin-off, combination or exchange of shares, reorganization or recapitalization or change in capitalization, changes in accounting, tax or legal rules, or any other similar corporate event, the number and kind of shares that are covered by your award (including, in the case of any such event other than an extraordinary cash dividend, the number of shares in respect of which Dividend Equivalents may be credited and paid pursuant to paragraph 3) immediately prior to such event may be proportionately and appropriately adjusted.
Adjustments
(b) Adjustments (which may be increases or decreases) may be made by the Committee in the Ending Annual Return on Invested Capital and Cumulative Earnings Per Share targets to take into account changes in law and accounting and tax rules and to make such adjustments as the Committee deems necessary or appropriate to reflect the inclusion or exclusion of the impact of extraordinary or unusual items, events or circumstances, including, without limitation, acquisitions or divestitures by or other material changes in the Company, provided that no adjustment shall be made which would result in an increase in your compensation if your compensation is subject to the limitation on deductibility under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, or any successor provision, for the year with respect to which the adjustment occurs. The Committee also may adjust the performance goals and measurements applicable to Performance Awards and thereby reduce the amount to be received by any Participant pursuant to such Awards if and to the extent that the Committee deems it appropriate, provided that no such reduction shall be made on or after the date of a Change in Control (as defined the Plan).
(c) The determination of the Committee as to the terms of any adjustment made pursuant to this paragraph 11 shall be binding and conclusive upon you and any other person or persons who are at any time entitled to receipt of any payment pursuant to the award.
12. . (a) Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, in the event that your employment is terminated on or after a Change in
Change in Control of Fortune
Control (as defined in the Plan) (i) by the Company other than for just cause (as defined in paragraph 12(b)) or (ii) by you because you in good faith believe that as a result of the Change in Control you are unable effectively to discharge your duties or the duties of the position you occupied immediately prior to the Change in Control or because of a diminution in your aggregate annual compensation or in your aggregate benefits below that in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control, your award shall become nonforfeitable and shall be paid out on the date your employment is so terminated (x) as if each performance period hereunder had been completed or satisfied and as if the Ending Annual Return on Invested Capital and Cumulative Earnings Per Share for the Company for each performance period were sufficient to enable a payment to you pursuant to paragraph 1(c) of the number of shares that is equal to the mean of the minimum and maximum performance award set forth herein with respect to that performance period, but (y) pro rated for the portion of the performance period that elapsed prior to the termination of employment. Also in the event of such a termination of your employment, you will be entitled to receive payment pursuant to paragraph 3 of any Dividend Equivalent that would have been declared, in respect of the shares you receive, during the performance period and prior to the date of payment of such shares, but will not be entitled to be credited with or to receive any other Dividend Equivalents.
(b) For purposes of paragraph 12(a), termination shall be for "just cause" only if such termination is based on fraud, misappropriation or embezzlement on your part which results in a final conviction of a felony.
13. . (a) In the event that your principal employer is a subsidiary of Fortune that ceases to be such, then your employment shall be deemed to be terminated for all purposes hereof as of the date on which your principal employer ceases to be a subsidiary of Fortune (called the Divestiture Date) and your award shall become nonforfeitable and shall be paid out on the Divestiture Date (x) as if the performance period hereunder had been completed or satisfied and as if the Ending Annual Return on Invested Capital and Cumulative Earnings Per Share for the Company for that performance period were sufficient to enable a payment to you pursuant to paragraph 1(c) of the number of shares that is equal to the mean of the minimum and maximum performance award set forth herein with respect to the performance period, but (y) pro rated for the portion of the performance period that elapsed prior to the Divestiture Date, all as determined by the Committee. Also in the event of such a deemed termination of employment, you will be entitled to receive payment pursuant to paragraph 3 of any Dividend Equivalent that would have been declared, in respect of the shares you receive, during the performance period and prior to the Divestiture Date, but will not be entitled to be credited with or to receive any other Dividend Equivalents.
Divestiture; Termination of Plan
(b) In the event of a termination of the Plan, then your employment shall be deemed to be terminated for all purposes under the Plan as of the date of termination of the Plan and the provisions of paragraph 13(a) will apply to your award with the same effect as if the date of termination of the Plan were a Divestiture Date.
14. . As soon as practicable after the end of each performance period, the Committee shall obtain a letter from the independent certified public accountants who have performed procedures to assist in evaluating compliance with the calculation of the Ending Annual Return on Invested Capital and Cumulative Earning Per Share of the Company for the performance period.
Accountants' Letter
15. . Neither you nor any other person shall have any rights of a stockholder as to shares until such shares shall have been recorded on Fortune's official stockholder records as having been issued or transferred.
Stockholder Rights
16. . Upon any payment to you of shares of Common Stock hereunder or upon any payment to you of any Dividend Equivalents hereunder, Federal income and other tax withholding (and state and local income tax withholding, if applicable) may be required by the Company in respect of taxes on income realized by you. The Company may withhold such required amounts from your future paychecks or from, if applicable, such Dividend Equivalents or may require that you deliver to the Company the amounts to be withheld. In addition, upon any payment to you of shares hereunder, you may pay any Federal income and other tax withholding (and any state and local income tax withholding, if applicable) by electing either to have the Company withhold a portion of the shares of Common Stock otherwise deliverable to you, or to deliver other shares of Common Stock owned by you, in either case having a fair market value (on the date that the amount of tax you have elected to have withheld is to be determined) of the amount to be withheld, provided that the election shall be irrevocable and shall be subject to such rules as the Committee may adopt.
Tax Withholding
17. . This agreement and the award provided for hereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware.
Governing Law


