FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20070301171711.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) On February 28, 2007, Fortune Brands, Inc. (the "Company") and Mr. Norman H. Wesley, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, entered into an amendment of Mr. Wesley's severance and retirement agreement. The amendment provides that in the event of Mr. Wesley's termination prior to normal retirement age due to death, disability, termination by the Company for other than cause or by Mr. Wesley for good reason, his compensation at the time of retirement and his service will be deemed to continue for three years (or, if less, until normal retirement age) for purposes of calculating Mr. Wesley's pension benefit. Prior to this amendment, the agreement provided that Mr. Wesley's compensation and service would be deemed to continue until his normal retirement age if his employment was terminated due to any of the specified events. Assuming a termination of employment for any of specified reasons, this amendment would result in a smaller pension benefit for Mr. Wesley than what would have been provided under the severance and retirement agreement prior to amendment. A copy of the amendment to Mr. Wesley's severance and retirement agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
In addition, on February 26, 2007, the Company's Compensation and Stock Option Committee (the "Compensation Committee") eliminated certain perquisites or personal benefits that the Company previously provided to its elected officers and approved a one-time salary adjustment to compensate for the reduction in benefits. The Compensation Committee eliminated the following perquisites effective March 31, 2007: automobile allowance; financial planning; and annual club dues. The base salary of each of the following executive officers will be adjusted in the following amounts:
 
 
(d)
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 1, 2007
 

Exhibit 10.1
AMENDMENT dated as of February 28, 2007 to Severance Agreement dated as of January 1, 1999 (the "Agreement"), as amended, between FORTUNE BRANDS, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and NORMAN H. WESLEY (the "Executive").
WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive have previously amended the Agreement as of January 1, 2000 and February 3, 2003; and
WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive desire to further amend the Agreement in order to reduce the amount of additional retirement plan service credited to Executive under certain circumstances.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the parties agree that the Agreement is amended as follows:
 
"(y) the Executive had accumulated an additional period of Benefit Service thereunder (subsequent to his Termination Date) until the third anniversary of the Termination Date or, if the Executive's Normal Retirement Date occurs prior to the third anniversary of the Termination Date, until the Executive's Normal Retirement Date, at his rate of Compensation in effect on the date hereof plus any increases subsequent thereto,"
 
"For purposes of clause (i) there shall be considered as part of the Executive's Compensation for the period from the Termination Date to the third anniversary of the Termination Date or, if the Executive's Normal Retirement Date occurs prior to the third anniversary of the Termination Date, until the Executive's Normal Retirement Date, for purposes of determining his highest consecutive calendar three-year average rate of Compensation the sum of (x) the Executive's annual base salary at the rate in effect on the date hereof plus any increases subsequent thereto plus (y) the amount awarded to the Executive under the Incentive Compensation Plans for the year immediately prior to the Termination Date or, if higher, for the year in which the Termination Date occurs (whether or not paid)."
Except as amended hereby, all provisions of the Agreement remain in full force and effect.
 


