FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20071004171314.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 4, 2007, Fortune Brands, Inc. ("Fortune Brands") entered into a $500 million 364-day unsecured revolving credit agreement among Fortune Brands, Fortune Brands Finance UK p.l.c. ("Fortune Brands UK"), the lenders party thereto, Barclays Bank PLC ("Barclays") and Citibank, N.A. ("Citibank"), as Syndication Agents, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. ("JPMCB"), as Administrative Agent (the "Credit Agreement").
The proceeds of borrowings under the Credit Agreement may be used for general corporate purposes, including support of commercial paper, and to refinance amounts that may be outstanding under the $500 million 364-day credit agreement dated as of October 5, 2006 among Fortune Brands, Fortune Brands UK, the lenders party thereto, JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, and Barclays and Citibank, as Syndication Agents (the "2006 Credit Agreement").
Amounts may be borrowed in U.S. Dollars, Euros or British Pounds Sterling. Interest on Eurocurrency loans will accrue at LIBOR (with interest periods of 1, 2, 3 or 6 months) plus spreads based on credit ratings assigned to certain debt of Fortune Brands. Interest on alternate base rate loans will accrue at the higher of (i) JPMCB's prime rate or (ii) the federal funds effective rate plus 1/2 of 1% per annum. Fortune Brands may also request competitive bids or negotiated rates for interest on loans under the Credit Agreement. Fortune Brands may elect, if certain conditions are met, that any borrowings outstanding under the Credit Agreement on the termination date will become term loans that mature on the first anniversary of the termination date.
The Credit Agreement contains, among other things, conditions precedent, covenants, representations and warranties and events of default customary for facilities of this type. Such covenants include certain limitations on secured debt, sale-leaseback transactions, subsidiary debt and guarantees, fundamental changes and transactions with affiliates. The Credit Agreement also includes a covenant under which Fortune Brands is required to maintain a minimum ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense of 3.5 to 1.0.
Under certain conditions the lending commitments under the Credit Agreement may be terminated by the lenders and amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement may be accelerated. Such events of default include failure to pay any principal, interest or other amounts when due, failure to comply with covenants, breach of representations or warranties in any material respect, non-payment or acceleration of other material debt of Fortune Brands and its subsidiaries, bankruptcy, material judgments rendered against Fortune Brands or certain of its subsidiaries, certain ERISA events or a change of control of Fortune Brands, subject to various exceptions and notice, cure and grace periods.
The Bank of New York, one of the Lenders under the Credit Agreement, is trustee (as successor by acquisition to JPMCB) under (i) the Indenture dated as of April 15, 1999 between Fortune Brands and JPMCB, as trustee, and (ii) the Indenture dated as of July 15, 1988, as amended and supplemented, between Fortune Brands and Chemical Bank (as successor by merger to Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company), as trustee, pursuant to which Fortune Brands has issued certain long-term indebtedness.
The information set forth under "Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" is incorporated herein by reference. The Credit Agreement replaces the 2006 Credit Agreement, which was terminated concurrently with Fortune Brands entering into the Credit Agreement. The conditions precedent, covenants, representations and warranties and events of default set forth in the 2006 Credit Agreement and the Credit Agreement are substantially the same.
 
The information set forth under "Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 4, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
AMENDED AND RESTATED 364-DAY REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT dated as of October 4, 2007, among FORTUNE BRANDS, INC., a Delaware corporation, FORTUNE BRANDS FINANCE UK P.L.C., a public limited company organized under the laws of England and Wales, the LENDERS party hereto, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and BARCLAYS BANK PLC and CITIBANK, N.A., as Syndication Agents.
The Borrowers, certain of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent are parties to Existing Credit Agreement and have agreed, subject to the conditions set forth in Section 4.01, to amend and restate the Existing Credit Agreement in the form of this Amended and Restated Credit Agreement.
The parties hereto agree as follows:
SECTION 1.01. As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms.
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
ABR
"" means, with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/16 of 1%) equal to (a) the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate.
Adjusted LIBO Rate
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders hereunder.
Administrative Agent
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified. With respect to any Lender, the term "Affiliate" shall be deemed to include (a) any entity (whether a corporation, partnership, trust or otherwise) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and is administered or managed by such Lender or an Affiliate of such Lender and (b) in the case of any Lender that is a fund that invests in bank loans and similar extensions of credit, any other fund that invests in bank loans and similar extensions of credit and is managed by the same investment advisor as such Lender or by an Affiliate of such investment advisor.
Affiliate
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.14(b).
Agreement Currency
"" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greater of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day and (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus 
Alternate Base Rate
 1
/
2
of 1%. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively.
"" means British Pounds Sterling or Euro.
Alternative Committed Currency
"" means (a) any Alternative Committed Currency or (b) any other currency specified by the applicable Borrower in a Competitive Bid Request relating to a proposed Competitive Borrowing if such currency is freely transferable and convertible into Dollars in the London market at the time and for which LIBO Rates may be determined at such time by reference to the Telerate screen as provided in the definition of "LIBO Rate".
Alternative Currency
"" means a Borrowing comprised of Alternative Currency Loans.
Alternative Currency Borrowing
"" means, with respect to an amount in Dollars on any date in relation to a specified Alternative Currency, the amount of such specified Alternative Currency that may be purchased with such amount of Dollars at the Spot Exchange Rate with respect to such Alternative Currency on such date.
Alternative Currency Equivalent
"" means any Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency.
Alternative Currency Loan
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.14(b).
Applicable Creditor
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.12(a).
Applicable Currency
"" means, for any day, (i) with respect to any Eurocurrency Revolving Loan, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "Eurocurrency Spread", (ii) with respect to the facility fees payable hereunder, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "Facility Fee Rate" and (iii) with respect to any utilization fees payable hereunder, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "Utilization Fee", in each case based upon the ratings by Moody's and S&P, respectively, applicable on such date to the Index Debt:
Applicable Rate
 
For purposes of the foregoing, (a) if either Moody's or S&P shall not have in effect a rating for the Index Debt (other than by reason of the circumstances referred to in the last sentence of this definition), then such rating agency shall be deemed to have established a rating in Category 6; (b) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's and S&P for the Index Debt shall fall within different Categories, the Applicable Rate shall be based on the higher of the two ratings unless one of the two ratings is two or more Categories lower than the other, in which case the Applicable Rate shall be determined by reference to the Category next below that of the higher of the two ratings; (c) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's and S&P for the Index Debt shall be changed (other than as a result of a change in the rating system of Moody's or S&P), such change shall be effective as of the date on which it is first announced by the applicable rating agency; and (d) so long as no Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Company may replace either S&P or Moody's (but not both) with Fitch; that, in the event of any such replacement,  above shall cease to apply and, in lieu of such , if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's or S&P (whichever remains as a rating agency for purposes hereof) or Fitch are not in the same Category, then the Applicable Rate will be determined based on the lower rating unless the lower rating is two or more Categories lower than the rating established or deemed to have been established by the other rating agency, in which case the Applicable Rate shall be determined by reference to the Category next above that of the lower of the two ratings. Each change in the Applicable Rate shall apply during the period commencing on the effective date of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change. If the rating system of Moody's, S&P or Fitch (whichever are applicable) shall change, or if either such applicable rating agency shall cease to be in the business of rating corporate debt obligations, the Borrowers and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith to amend this definition to reflect such changed rating system or the unavailability of ratings from such rating agency and, pending the effectiveness of any such amendment, the Applicable Rate shall be determined by reference to the rating most recently in effect prior to such change or cessation.
provided
clause (b)
clause (b)
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the total Revolving Commitments represented by such Lender's Revolving Commitment. If the Revolving Commitments have terminated or expired, the Applicable Revolving Commitment Percentages shall be determined based upon the Revolving Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments.
Applicable Revolving Commitment Percentage
 
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.21.
Assigned Dollar Value
"" means an assignment and acceptance entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 10.04), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Acceptance
Exhibit A
"" means the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the earlier of the Termination Date and the date of termination of the Revolving Commitments.
Availability Period
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America.
Board
"" means a copy of a resolution delivered to the Administrative Agent and certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company as having been duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company, or by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company or the Secretary of the Executive Committee of such Board of Directors as having been duly adopted by such Executive Committee, or by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company or the Secretary of any other committee of such Board of Directors duly authorized to act for it hereunder as having been duly adopted by such other committee.
Board Resolution
"" means the Company and Fortune Brands UK.
Borrowers
"" means (a) Revolving Loans to the same Borrower of the same Type and Currency, made, converted or continued on the same date and, in the case of Eurocurrency Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect, (b) a Competitive Loan or group of Competitive Loans to the same Borrower of the same Type and Currency made on the same date and as to which a single Interest Period is in effect or (c) a Negotiated Rate Loan.
Borrowing
"" means any Business Day specified in a notice pursuant to or as a date on which the relevant Borrower requests Loans to be made hereunder.
Borrowing Date
Section 2.02
2.04
"" means a request by either Borrower for a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.03.
Borrowing Request
"" or "" means lawful money of the United Kingdom.
British Pounds Sterling
"" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to
Business Day
 
remain closed, except that when used in connection with a Eurocurrency Loan or an Alternative Currency Loan, "Business Day" also shall exclude any day on which dealings in foreign currencies and exchange between banks may not be carried on in London, England or New York, New York or, in the case of an Alternative Currency Loan denominated in a currency other than British Pounds Sterling, the place designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time as the place for payments in such currency.
" of any Person means the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, and the amount of such obligations shall be the capitalized amount thereof determined in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligations"
"" means (a) the acquisition of ownership, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, by any Person or group (within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder as in effect on the date hereof), of shares representing more than 50% of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company; or (b) occupation of a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors of the Company by Persons who were neither (i) nominated by the board of directors of the Company nor (ii) appointed by directors so nominated.
Change in Control
"" means (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after the date of this Agreement, (b) any change in any law, rule or regulation or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the date of this Agreement or (c) compliance by any Lender (or, for purposes of Section 2.13(b) or 2.18, by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's holding company, if any) with any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement.
Change in Law
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.13.
Charges
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are Revolving Loans, Competitive Loans or Negotiated Rate Loans.
Class
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
"" means Fortune Brands, Inc.
Company
"" means an offer by a Lender to make a Competitive Loan in accordance with .
Competitive Bid
Section 2.04
 
"" means, with respect to any Competitive Bid, the Margin or the Fixed Rate, as applicable, offered by the Lender making such Competitive Bid.
Competitive Bid Rate
"" means a request by either Borrower for Competitive Bids in accordance with .
Competitive Bid Request
Section 2.04
"" means a Loan made pursuant to a Competitive Bid as contemplated by .
Competitive Loan
Section 2.04
"" means, for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters, Consolidated Net Income for such period, excluding, to the extent included in determining such Consolidated Net Income, extraordinary items, noncash restructuring charges, noncash nonrecurring charges, losses from asset impairments and gains or losses resulting from the sale of assets not in the ordinary course of business, plus, without duplication and to the extent deducted in determining such Consolidated Net Income, the sum of (i) Consolidated Interest Expense for such period, (ii) income taxes for such period, and (iii) depreciation and amortization of intangibles for such period, all determined on a consolidated basis for each such item in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated EBITDA
"" means, for any period, the gross interest expense of the Company and the Subsidiaries for such period determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Interest Expense
"" means, for any period, net income for the Company and the Subsidiaries for such period determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Net Income
"" means the excess over current liabilities of all assets as determined by the Company and set forth in a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries prepared in accordance with GAAP as of a date within 90 days of the date of such determination, after deducting goodwill, trademarks, patents, other like intangibles and the minority interest of others.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
"", when used in reference to any amount, refers to whether such amount is denominated in (a) Dollars, (b) British Pounds Sterling, (c) Euro or (d) in respect of any Competitive Borrowing denominated in another Alternative Currency, such Alternative Currency.
Currency
"" means the Dollar Equivalent or the Alternative Currency Equivalent, as the case may be, of the Applicable Currency.
Currency Equivalent
 
"" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
"" means, in relation to any Alternative Currency Borrowing, the date that is three Business Days before the date such Borrowing is made.
Denomination Date
"" means the actions, suits and proceedings and the environmental matters disclosed in and the matters described in any filings made by the Company from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Disclosed Matters
Schedule 3.06
"" means, with respect to an amount of any Alternative Currency on any date, the amount of Dollars that may be purchased with such amount of the Alternative Currency at the Spot Exchange Rate with respect to the Alternative Currency on such date.
Dollar Equivalent
"" or "" refers to lawful money of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
"" means the date on which the conditions specified in Section 4.01 are satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 10.02) and the Existing Credit Agreement is amended and restated in the form of this Agreement.
Effective Date
"" means the legislative measures of the European Union for the introduction of, changeover to or operation of the Euro in one or more member states.
EMU Legislation
"" means all laws, rules, regulations, codes, ordinances, orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions, notices or binding agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any Governmental Authority, relating in any way to the environment, preservation or reclamation of natural resources, the management, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Material or to health and safety matters.
Environmental Laws
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of either Borrower or any Subsidiary directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
"" means shares of capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests in a limited liability company, beneficial interests in a trust or other equity interests in any Person.
Equity Interests
 
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with either Borrower, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code or, solely for purposes of Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) any "reportable event", as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan (other than an event for which the 30-day notice period is waived); (b) prior to the effectiveness of the applicable provisions of the Pension Act, the existence with respect to any Plan of an "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA) or, on or after the effectiveness of the applicable provisions of the Pension Act, any failure by any Plan to satisfy the minimum funding standard (within the meaning of Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA) applicable to such Plan, in each case whether or not waived; (c) the filing pursuant to, prior to the effectiveness of the applicable provisions of the Pension Act, Section 412(d) of the Code or Section 303(d) of ERISA or, on or after the effectiveness of the applicable provisions of the Pension Act, Section 412(c) of the Code or Section 302(c) of ERISA, of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan; (d) on and after the effectiveness of the applicable provisions of the Pension Act, a determination that any Plan is, or is expected to be, in "at-risk" status (as defined in Section 303(i)(4) of ERISA or Section 430(i)(4) of the Code); (e) the incurrence by any Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to the termination of any Plan; (f) the receipt by any Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from the PBGC or a plan administrator of any notice relating to an intention to terminate any Plan or Plans or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan; (g) the incurrence by any Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability with respect to the withdrawal or partial withdrawal from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (h) the receipt by any Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, or the receipt by any Multiemployer Plan from any Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, concerning the imposition of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA or, on and after the effectiveness of the applicable provisions of the Pension Act, in endangered or critical status, within the meaning of Section 305 of ERISA.
ERISA Event
"" or "" means the single currency of the European Union as constituted by the Treaty on European Union and as referred to in the EMU Legislation
Euro
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate (or, in the case of a Competitive Loan, the LIBO Rate).
Eurocurrency
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Article VII.
Event of Default
 
"" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of either Borrower hereunder, (a) income, franchise or similar taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income by the United States of America or the United Kingdom or by the jurisdiction under the laws of which the Administrative Agent, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, such Lender or other such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable lending office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States of America or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction described in clause (a) above, and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by either Borrower under , any withholding tax that (i) is in effect and would apply to amounts payable to such Foreign Lender, at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (or designates a new lending office), by a Borrower previously designated hereunder, except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new lending office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrowers with respect to any withholding tax pursuant to Section , or (ii) is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure to comply with Section .
Excluded Taxes
Section 2.17(b))
2.15(a)
2.15(e)
"" means the 364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of October 5, 2006, among the Borrowers, the lenders parties thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as the Administrative Agent, and Barclays Bank PLC and Citicorp North America, Inc., as the Syndication Agents,
Existing Credit Agreement
"" means October 2, 2009.
Extended Maturity Date
"" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
"" means the chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, treasurer or controller of either Borrower.
Financial Officer
"" means Fitch, Inc., or any successor thereto.
Fitch
"" means, with respect to any Competitive Loan (other than a Eurocurrency Competitive Loan), the fixed rate of interest per annum specified by the Lender making such Competitive Loan in its related Competitive Bid.
Fixed Rate
"" means a Competitive Loan bearing interest at a Fixed Rate.
Fixed Rate Loan
 
"" means, with respect to either Borrower, any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which such Borrower is located. For purposes of this definition, the United States of America, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
"" means Fortune Brands Finance UK p.l.c.
Fortune Brands UK
"" of any Person means (i) all indebtedness for money borrowed which by its terms matures more than 12 months from the creation, extension or renewal thereof or which is extendible or renewable at the option of the obligor on such indebtedness to a time more than 12 months after its creation, extension or renewal and (ii) all guarantees, direct or indirect, of such indebtedness of others or of dividends; that Funded Debt shall not include endorsements of negotiable instruments for collection, deposit or negotiation and guarantees by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary arising in connection with the sale, discount, guarantee or pledge of notes, chattel mortgages, leases, accounts receivable, trade acceptances and other paper arising, in the ordinary course of business, out of installment or conditional sales to or by, or transactions involving title retention with, distributors, dealers or other customers, of merchandise, equipment or services. The Company or a Restricted Subsidiary shall be deemed to have assumed any Funded Debt secured by any mortgage upon any of its property or assets whether or not it has actually done so.
Funded Debt
provided
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
GAAP
"" means the government of the United States of America, the United Kingdom, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
"" has the meaning specified in  of .
Granting Lender
paragraph (h)
Section 10.04
"" of or by any Person (the "") means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness of any other Person (the "") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Indebtedness or obligation; , that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business.
Guarantee
guarantor
primary obligor
provided
 
"" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
"" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person and (c) all Guarantees by such Person of Indebtedness of others described in clause (a) or (b) above. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness provide that such Person is not liable therefor.
Indebtedness
"" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" means senior, unsecured, long-term indebtedness for borrowed money of the Company that is not guaranteed by any other Person or subject to any other credit enhancement.
Index Debt
"" means the Confidential Information Memorandum dated September 2007, relating to the Borrowers and the Transactions.
Information Memorandum
"" means a request by either Borrower to convert or continue a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with .
Interest Election Request
Section 2.06
"" means (a) with respect to any ABR Loan, the last day of each March, June, September and December, (b) with respect to any Eurocurrency Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three months' duration, each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three months' duration after the first day of such Interest Period, (c) with respect to any Fixed Rate Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than 90 days' duration (unless otherwise specified in the applicable Competitive Bid Request), each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of 90 days' duration after the first day of such Interest Period, and any other dates that are specified in the applicable Competitive Bid Request as Interest Payment Dates with respect to such Borrowing and (d) with respect to any Negotiated Rate Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to such Negotiated Rate Loan and any other day during such Interest Period on which interest therein is payable, as separately agreed between the applicable Borrower and the applicable Lender.
Interest Payment Date
 
"" means (a) with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is one, two, three or six months thereafter, as the applicable Borrower may elect (or, with the consent of each Lender participating in such Borrowing, such other time period as the applicable Borrower may request), (b) with respect to any Fixed Rate Borrowing, the period (which shall not be less than seven days or more than 180 days) commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the date specified in the applicable Competitive Bid Request and (c) with respect to any Negotiated Rate Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on such date as shall be mutually agreed upon between the applicable Borrower and the applicable Lender; , that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing only, such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (ii) any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurocurrency Borrowing that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and, in the case of a Revolving Borrowing, thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing.
Interest Period
provided
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.14(b).
Judgment Currency
"" means the Persons listed on and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance.
Lenders
Schedule 2.01
"" means, with respect to any Eurocurrency Borrowing for any Interest Period, the rate per annum determined by reference to the British Bankers' Association Interest Settlement Rates for deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period denominated in the Currency in which such Eurocurrency Borrowing is denominated as reflected on the Reuters "LIBOR01" screen (or on any successor or substitute page of the Reuters Service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such Service, as determined by the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to deposits of Currency in which such Borrowing is denominated) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on the Quotation Day for the currency in which such Borrowing is denominated. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "" with respect to such Eurocurrency Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which Dollar deposits of $5,000,000 (or in the case of Eurocurrency Borrowings denominated in an Alternative Currency, deposits with a Dollar Equivalent of $5,000,000) and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the
LIBO Rate
LIBO Rate
 
Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on the Quotation Day for the currency in which such Borrowing is denominated prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
"" means, with respect to any asset, (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, charge or security interest in, on or of such asset and (b) the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement (or any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing) relating to such asset.
Lien
"" means any loan made by a Lender to a Borrower pursuant to this Agreement.
Loan
"" means (a) with respect to any Loan or Borrowing denominated in Dollars, New York City time and (b) with respect to any Loan or Borrowing denominated in any Alternative Currency, London time (or such other time as J.P. Morgan Europe Limited may designate in respect of the applicable currency).
Local Time
"" means, with respect to any Competitive Loan bearing interest at a rate based on the LIBO Rate, the marginal rate of interest, if any, to be added to or subtracted from the LIBO Rate to determine the rate of interest applicable to such Loan, as specified by the Lender making such Loan in its related Competitive Bid.
Margin
"" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, assets, operations or financial condition of the Company and the Subsidiaries taken as a whole or (b) the rights of or benefits available to the Lenders under this Agreement.
Material Adverse Effect
"" means Indebtedness (other than the Loans) of any one or more of the Company and the Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $50,000,000.
Material Indebtedness
"" means any Subsidiary that is (a) a Restricted Subsidiary, (b) Fortune Brands UK or (c) a "significant subsidiary" of the Company within the meaning of Regulation S-X of the Securities and Exchange Commission (or any successor provision).
Material Subsidiary
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.13.
Maximum Rate
"" means the cost imputed to the Lenders in connection with a Borrowing denominated in British Pounds Sterling in compliance with the Mandatory Liquid Asset requirements of the Bank of England during an Interest Period (or part of an Interest Period), expressed as a rate per annum and determined in accordance with .
MLA Cost
Exhibit C
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., or any successor thereto.
Moody's
 
"" means any mortgage, pledge or security interest.
mortgage
"" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means a Loan made to a Borrower by a Lender pursuant to a Negotiated Rate Loan Request in such principal amount, for such Interest Period and having such interest rate(s) and repayment terms as shall, in each case, be mutually agreed upon between such Borrower and such Lender.
Negotiated Rate Loan
"" means a request by a Borrower for a Lender to make a Negotiated Rate Loan, which shall be delivered to such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) in writing, by facsimile transmission or by telephone, immediately confirmed in writing, and which shall specify the amount to be borrowed and the proposed Borrowing Date, Currency and Interest Period.
Negotiated Rate Loan Request
"" means (a) the obligation of each Borrower to pay the principal of and premium, if any, and interest (including interest accruing during the pendency of any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or other similar proceeding, regardless of whether allowed or allowable in such proceeding) on the Loans made to such Borrower, when and as due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, upon one or more dates set for prepayment or otherwise, and (b) all other monetary obligations, including fees, costs, expenses and indemnities, whether primary, secondary, direct, contingent, fixed or otherwise (including monetary obligations incurred during the pendency of any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or other similar proceeding, regardless of whether allowed or allowable in such proceeding), of the Company or the other Borrower under this Agreement.
Obligations
"" means any and all present or future recording, stamp, documentary, excise, transfer, sales, property or similar taxes, charges or levies arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement.
Other Taxes
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.15.
PATRIOT Act
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions.
PBGC
"" shall mean the Pension Protection Act of 2006, as amended from time to time.
Pension Act
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" means any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, and in respect of which either Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA.
Plan
 
"" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City; each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective.
Prime Rate
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 10.09(d).
Process Agent
"" in respect of the determination of the LIBO Rate for any Interest Period (a) for any Eurocurrency Borrowing in Dollars or any Alternative Currency (other than British Pounds Sterling), means the day on which quotations would ordinarily be given by prime banks in the London interbank market for deposits in the currency in which such Borrowing is denominated for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period; , that if quotations would ordinarily be given on more than one date, the Quotation Day for such Interest Period shall be the last of such dates and (b) for any Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in British Pounds Sterling, means the first day of such Interest Period.
Quotation Day
provided
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Register
Section 10.04
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers and employees of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means, at any time, Lenders having Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Revolving Commitments representing more than 50% of the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Revolving Commitments at such time; that, for purposes of declaring the Loans to be due and payable pursuant to Article VII, and for all purposes after the Loans become due and payable pursuant to Article VII or the Revolving Commitments expire or terminate, the outstanding Competitive Loans and Negotiated Rate Loans of the Lenders shall be included in their respective Revolving Credit Exposures in determining the Required Lenders.
Required Lenders
provided
"" means any Subsidiary other than (a) each Subsidiary organized and existing under laws other than the laws of the United States or a State thereof, (b) each Subsidiary substantially all of the physical properties of which are located, or substantially all of the business of which is carried on, outside of the United States, (c) each Subsidiary the primary business of which consists of finance, banking, credit, leasing, insurance, financial services, or similar operations or any combination thereof, (d) each Subsidiary the primary business of which consists of the ownership, construction, management, operation, sale or leasing of real property or improvements thereon, similar operations or any combination thereof, (e) each Subsidiary the primary business of which consists of the exploration for, or the extraction, production, transporting or marketing of petroleum or gas or other extracted substances, or similar
Restricted Subsidiary
 
operations or any combination thereof, (f) each Subsidiary the primary business of which consists of the ownership or operation of one or more transportation businesses or facilities or equipment related thereto or similar operations or any combination thereof, (g) each Subsidiary the primary business of which consists of obtaining funds with which to make investments outside of the United States, (h) each Subsidiary substantially all of the assets of which consist of the ownership directly or indirectly of the Equity Interests of one or more Subsidiaries covered by the preceding clauses (a) through (g), (i) each Subsidiary which the Company or any Subsidiary is, by the terms of the final order of any court of competent jurisdiction from which no further appeal may be taken, required to dispose of and which shall by Board Resolution be determined not to be a Restricted Subsidiary, effective as of the date specified in such resolution and (j) any entity a majority of the voting Equity Interests of which shall at the time be owned directly or indirectly by one or more entities specified in the preceding clauses (a) through (i); that the Board of Directors may by Board Resolutions declare any such Subsidiary to be a Restricted Subsidiary, effective as of the date such resolution is adopted. For purposes of this definition and any provisions of this Agreement in which the term Restricted Subsidiary appears, the term "Subsidiary" means, at any date, any entity of which the Company, or the Company and one or more Subsidiaries, directly or indirectly own outstanding Equity Interests having voting power sufficient to elect, under ordinary circumstances (not dependent upon the happening of a contingency), a majority of the directors or persons performing similar functions.
provided
"" means, with respect to an Alternative Currency Borrowing, the last day of each Interest Period with respect to such Borrowing (and if such Interest Period has a duration of more than three months, each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three months duration after the first day of such Interest Period).
Revaluation Date
"" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Revolving Loans to the Company and Fortune Brands UK hereunder, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure hereunder, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.07 and (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to. The initial amount of each Lender's Revolving Commitment is set forth on , or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Revolving Commitment, as applicable.
Revolving Commitment
Section 10.04
Schedule 2.01
"" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum of (a) the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Revolving Loans denominated in Dollars, plus (b) the Assigned Dollar Value at such time of the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Revolving Loans denominated in Alternative Committed Currencies.
Revolving Credit Exposure
"" means a Loan made to the Company or Fortune Brands UK pursuant to .
Revolving Loan
Section 2.01
 
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Service, or any successor thereto.
S&P
"" means indebtedness for money borrowed if such indebtedness is secured by a mortgage upon any assets of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, including in such assets, without limitation, shares of stock or indebtedness of any Restricted Subsidiary owned by the Company or another Restricted Subsidiary. Indebtedness secured by mortgages on property existing at the time it is acquired and mortgages securing any part of the purchase price of property purchased, constructed or improved shall be deemed to be indebtedness for money borrowed. The Company or a Restricted Subsidiary shall be deemed to have assumed any indebtedness secured by any mortgage upon any of its property or assets whether or not it has actually done so.
Secured Debt
"" means, on any day, (a) with respect to any Alternative Currency in relation to Dollars, the spot rate at which Dollars are offered on such day for such Alternative Currency which appears on page FX of the Reuters Screen at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time (and if such spot rate is not available on the applicable page of the Reuters Screen, such spot rate as quoted by J.P. Morgan Europe Limited at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time), and (b) with respect to Dollars in relation to any specified Alternative Currency, the spot rate at which such specified Alternative Currency is offered on such day for Dollars which appears on page FXFX of the Reuters Screen at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time (and if such spot rate is not available on the applicable page of the Reuters Screen, such spot rate as quoted by J.P. Morgan Europe Limited at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time). For purposes of determining the Spot Exchange Rate in connection with an Alternative Currency Borrowing, such Spot Exchange Rate shall be determined as of the Denomination Date for such Borrowing with respect to transactions in the applicable Alternative Currency that will settle on the date of such Borrowing.
Spot Exchange Rate
"" has the meaning specified in  of .
SPV
paragraph (h)
Section 10.04
"" means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentages (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Board to which the Administrative Agent is subject for eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency Liabilities" in Regulation D of the Board). Such reserve percentages shall include those imposed pursuant to such Regulation D. Eurocurrency Loans shall be deemed to constitute eurocurrency funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under such Regulation D or any comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage.
Statutory Reserve Rate
"" means, with respect to any Person (the "") at any date, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the parent in the parent's consolidated financial statements if such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such date.
Subsidiary
parent
 
"" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority.
Taxes
"" means October 2, 2008.
Termination Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.20.
Term-Out Option
"" means the period commencing on and including the Termination Date and ending on and including the Extended Maturity Date.
Term-Out Period
"" means, at any time, the sum of (a) the total Revolving Credit Exposure of the Lenders at such time, plus (b) the outstanding principal amount of Competitive Loans and Negotiated Rate Loans of the Lenders at such time that are denominated in Dollars, plus (c) the Assigned Dollar Value at such time of the outstanding principal amount of all Competitive Loans and Negotiated Rate Loans of the Lenders at such time that are denominated in Alternative Currencies.
Total Credit Exposure
"" means (a) the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrowers of this Agreement, (b) the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and (c) the borrowing of the Loans and the use of the proceeds thereof.
Transactions
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is determined by reference to (a) the Adjusted LIBO Rate, (b) the Alternate Base Rate, (c) in the case of a Competitive Loan or Borrowing, the LIBO Rate or a Fixed Rate or (d) in the case of a Negotiated Rate Loan or Borrowing, the rate negotiated between the applicable Borrower and the applicable Lender.
Type
"" means, as to any sale and lease back transaction to which Section 6.03 applies, the product of (a) the net proceeds from any such sale (less the amount applied in connection with such sale to the retirement of outstanding Funded Debt in accordance with Section 6.03(c)) and (b) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full years of the term of the lease relating to such property (without regard to any options to renew or extend such term) remaining at the time of the determination of such value and the denominator of which is the number of full years of such term at the time of such sale.
Value
"" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
Withdrawal Liability
SECTION 1.02. For purposes of this Agreement, Loans may be classified and referred to by Class (, a "Revolving Loan") or by Type (, a "Eurocurrency Loan") or by Currency (, a "Dollar Loan") or by Class, Type and Currency (, a "Eurocurrency Dollar Revolving Loan").
Classification of Loans and Borrowings.
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
 
Borrowings also may be classified and referred to by Class (, a "Revolving Borrowing") or by Type (, a "Eurocurrency Borrowing") or by Currency (, a "Dollar Borrowing") or by Class, Type and Currency (, a "Eurocurrency Dollar Revolving Borrowing").
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
SECTION 1.03. The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns (subject to any restrictions on such assignments set forth herein), (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
Terms Generally.
SECTION 1.04. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; that, if the Company notifies the Administrative Agent that the Company requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies the Company that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith.
Accounting Terms; GAAP.
provided
SECTION 2.01. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make Revolving Loans in Dollars or in any Alternative Committed Currency to the Company or Fortune Brands UK from time to time during the Availability Period in an aggregate principal amount that will not result in (a) such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure exceeding such Lender's Revolving
Revolving Commitments.
 
Commitment or (b) the Total Credit Exposure exceeding the total Revolving Commitments. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Revolving Loans. Revolving Loans repaid on or after the Termination Date may not be reborrowed.
SECTION 2.02. (a) Each Revolving Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Revolving Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Revolving Commitments. Each Competitive Loan and Negotiated Rate Loan shall be made in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 2.04. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; that the Revolving Commitments and Competitive Bids of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Loans as required.
Loans and Borrowings.
provided
(b) Subject to Section 2.12, (i) each Revolving Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of ABR Loans or Eurocurrency Loans as the applicable Borrower may request in accordance herewith (except that a Revolving Borrowing denominated in an Alternative Committed Currency must be comprised entirely of Eurocurrency Loans), (ii) each Competitive Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of Eurocurrency Loans or Fixed Rate Loans as the applicable Borrower may request in accordance herewith and (iii) each Negotiated Rate Loan shall be denominated in Dollars or an Alternative Currency as agreed between the applicable Borrower and the applicable Lender. Each Lender at its option may make any Eurocurrency Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; that any exercise of such option shall not (a) affect the obligation of the applicable Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement or (b) result in the Borrower incurring any additional cost or expense (including pursuant to Section 2.13, 2.15 or 2.18).
provided
(c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Eurocurrency Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000. At the time that each ABR Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $1,000,000; that an ABR Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the total Revolving Commitments. Each Competitive Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $1,000,000. Each Negotiated Rate Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is separately agreed between the applicable Borrower and the applicable Lender. Subject to Section 2.12, Loans made pursuant to any Alternative Currency Borrowing shall be made in the Alternative Currency specified in the applicable Borrowing Request or Competitive Bid Request in an aggregate amount equal to the Alternative Currency Equivalent of the Dollar amount specified in such Borrowing Request or, in the case of a Competitive Borrowing, the Dollar amount accepted pursuant to Section 2.04 (in each case as determined by J.P. Morgan Europe Limited based upon the applicable Spot Exchange Rate as of the Denomination Date for such Borrowing (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error)); that for purposes of the borrowing amounts specified above,
provided
provided
 
each Alternative Currency Borrowing shall be deemed to be in a principal amount equal to its Assigned Dollar Value. Borrowings of more than one Type, Class and Currency may be outstanding at the same time; that there shall not at any time be more than a total of eight Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowings outstanding in any Currency.
provided
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Borrowers shall not be entitled to request, or to elect to convert or continue, any Borrowing (other than to continue a Borrowing denominated in an Alternative Committed Currency for a one-month Interest Period, which shall not affect the applicable Borrower's obligations to repay such Borrowing on the Termination Date (or, if the Term-Out Option is exercised, on the Extended Maturity Date), together with accrued interest thereon and any other amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.14, if any) if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would end after the Termination Date (or, if the Term-Out Option is exercised, the Extended Maturity Date).
SECTION 2.03. To request a Revolving Borrowing, the applicable Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent and, in the case of Revolving Borrowings denominated in any Alternative Committed Currency, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, of such request by telephone (a) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in Dollars, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing, (b) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in an Alternative Committed Currency, not later than 9:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing or (c) in the case of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 10:30 a.m., New York City time, on the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent (and, in the case of an Alternative Currency Borrowing, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited) of a written Borrowing Request in the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the applicable Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with :
Requests for Revolving Borrowings.
Exhibit E
Section 2.02
(i) the Borrower in respect of the requested Borrowing;
(ii) the aggregate amount (expressed in Dollars) and Currency (which must be Dollars or an Alternative Committed Currency) of the requested Borrowing;
(iii) the requested Borrowing Date, which shall be a Business Day;
(iv) whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurocurrency Borrowing;
(v) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period"; and
 
(vi) the location and number of the applicable Borrower's account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.05.
If no election as to the Type of Revolving Borrowing is specified, then the requested Revolving Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing (if denominated in Dollars) or a Eurocurrency Borrowing (if denominated in an Alternative Committed Currency). If no election as to the Currency of the requested Revolving Borrowing is specified, then the requested Revolving Borrowing shall be denominated in Dollars. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing, then the applicable Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. If no election as to the identity of the Borrower is specified, the requested Revolving Borrowing shall be made by the Company. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent (in the case of Revolving Borrowings denominated in Dollars) or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited (in the case of Revolving Borrowings denominated in any Alternative Committed Currency) shall advise each applicable Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
SECTION 2.04. (a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, from time to time during the Availability Period either Borrower may request Competitive Bids and may (but shall not have any obligation to) accept Competitive Bids and borrow Competitive Loans denominated in Dollars or any Alternative Currency; that the Total Credit Exposure at any time shall not exceed the total Revolving Commitments. To request Competitive Bids, the applicable Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent and, in the case of a Borrowing denominated in any Alternative Currency, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, of such request by telephone, (i) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in Dollars, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, four Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing, (ii) in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in any Alternative Currency, not later than 9:00 a.m., New York City time, four Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing, and (iii) in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, one Business Day before the date of the proposed Borrowing; that the Borrowers may submit up to (but not more than) two Competitive Bid Requests on the same day, but a Competitive Bid Request shall not be made within five Business Days after the date of any previous Competitive Bid Request from either Borrower, unless any and all such previous Competitive Bid Requests shall have been withdrawn or all Competitive Bids received in response thereto rejected. Each such telephonic Competitive Bid Request shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent and, if applicable, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, of a written Competitive Bid Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, and signed by the applicable Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Competitive Bid Request shall specify the following information in compliance with :
Competitive Bid and Negotiated Rate Loan Procedures.
provided
provided
Section 2.02
(i) the aggregate amount (expressed in Dollars) and Currency of the requested Borrowing;
 
(ii) the requested Borrowing Date, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether such Borrowing is to be a Eurocurrency Borrowing or a Fixed Rate Borrowing;
(iv) the Interest Period to be applicable to such Borrowing, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period";
(v) the location and number of the applicable Borrower's account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of ; and
Section 2.05
(vi) the identity of the Borrower in respect of such Borrowing.
Promptly following receipt of a Competitive Bid Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, shall notify the Lenders of the details thereof by telecopy, inviting such Lenders to submit Competitive Bids.
(b) Each Lender may (but shall not have any obligation to) make one or more Competitive Bids to the applicable Borrower in response to a Competitive Bid Request. Each Competitive Bid by a Lender must be in a form approved by the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, and must be received by the Administrative Agent (and, in the case of an Alternative Currency Borrowing, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited) by telecopy, (i) in the case of a Eurocurrency Competitive Borrowing denominated in Dollars, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the proposed date of such Competitive Borrowing, (ii) in the case of a Eurocurrency Competitive Borrowing denominated in any Alternative Currency, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the proposed date of such Competitive Borrowing and (iii) in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the proposed date of such Competitive Borrowing. Competitive Bids that do not conform substantially to the form approved by the Administrative Agent may be rejected by the Administrative Agent and the Administrative Agent shall notify the applicable Lender as promptly as practicable. Each Competitive Bid shall specify (i) the principal amount (expressed in Dollars and which shall be a minimum of $5,000,000 and an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and which may equal the entire principal amount of the Competitive Borrowing requested by the applicable Borrower) and Currency of the Competitive Loan or Loans that the Lender is willing to make, (ii) the Competitive Bid Rate or Rates at which the Lender is prepared to make such Loan or Loans (expressed as a percentage rate per annum in the form of a decimal to no more than four decimal places) and (iii) the Interest Period applicable to each such Loan and the last day thereof.
(c) The Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, shall promptly notify the applicable Borrower by telecopy of the Competitive Bid Rate and the principal amount specified in each Competitive Bid and the identity of the Lender that shall have made such Competitive Bid.
 
(d) Subject only to the provisions of this paragraph, the applicable Borrower may accept or reject any Competitive Bid. Such Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent (and, in the case of an Alternative Currency Borrowing, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited) by telephone, confirmed by telecopy in a form approved by the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, whether and to what extent it has decided to accept or reject each Competitive Bid (i) in the case of a Eurocurrency Competitive Borrowing denominated in Dollars, not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Competitive Borrowing, (ii) in the case of a Eurocurrency Competitive Borrowing denominated in an Alternative Currency, not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Competitive Borrowing and (iii) in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not later than 1:00 p.m., New York City time, on the proposed date of the Competitive Borrowing; that (i) the failure of such Borrower to give such notice shall be deemed to be a rejection of each Competitive Bid, (ii) such Borrower shall not accept a Competitive Bid made at a particular Competitive Bid Rate if such Borrower rejects a Competitive Bid made at a lower Competitive Bid Rate, (iii) the aggregate amount of the Competitive Bids accepted by such Borrower shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the requested Competitive Borrowing specified in the related Competitive Bid Request, (iv) to the extent necessary to comply with clause (iii) above, such Borrower may accept Competitive Bids at the same Competitive Bid Rate in part, which acceptance, in the case of multiple Competitive Bids at such Competitive Bid Rate, shall be made pro rata in accordance with the amount of each such Competitive Bid, and (v) except pursuant to clause (iv) above, no Competitive Bid shall be accepted for a Competitive Loan unless such Competitive Loan is in a minimum principal amount of $5,000,000 and an integral multiple of $1,000,000; that if a Competitive Loan must be in an amount less than $5,000,000 because of the provisions of clause (iv) above, such Competitive Loan may be for a minimum amount of $1,000,000 or any integral multiple thereof, and in calculating the pro rata allocation of acceptances of portions of multiple Competitive Bids at a particular Competitive Bid Rate pursuant to clause (iv) the amounts shall be rounded to integral multiples of $1,000,000 in a manner determined by such Borrower. A notice given by such Borrower pursuant to this paragraph shall be irrevocable.
provided
provided
further
(e) The Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, shall promptly notify each bidding Lender by telecopy whether or not its Competitive Bid has been accepted (and, if so, the amount and Competitive Bid Rate so accepted), and each successful bidder will thereupon become bound, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, to make the Competitive Loan in respect of which its Competitive Bid has been accepted.
(f) If the Administrative Agent shall elect to submit a Competitive Bid in its capacity as a Lender, it shall submit such Competitive Bid directly to the applicable Borrower at least one quarter of an hour earlier than the time by which the other Lenders are required to submit their Competitive Bids to the Administrative Agent pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section.
 
(g) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, from time to time during the Availability Period either Borrower may make Negotiated Rate Loan Requests to any Lender or Lenders and may (but shall not have any obligation to) borrow Negotiated Rate Loans denominated in Dollars or any Alternative Currency; that the Total Credit Exposure at any time shall not exceed the total Revolving Commitments. If the applicable Borrower and any Lender agree to the terms of a Negotiated Rate Loan to be made on a Borrowing Date pursuant to a Negotiated Rate Loan Request, such Borrower and such Lender shall promptly notify by telephone the Administrative Agent and, if applicable, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited of the aggregate amount (expressed in Dollars) and Currency of the Negotiated Rate Loan to be made on such Borrowing Date, the Borrower with respect thereto and the respective interest rate, Interest Period and Interest Payment Dates therefor. Each Lender that agrees to make a Negotiated Rate Loan shall, at such time, on such Borrowing Date and at such location as shall be mutually agreed upon between such Borrower and such Lender, make available to such Borrower the amount of the Negotiated Rate Loan to be made by such Lender, in immediately available funds.
provided
SECTION 2.05. (a) Each Lender shall make each Revolving Loan denominated in Dollars (other than any Negotiated Rate Loan) to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 2:00 p.m., New York City time (or time of such other city designated by the Administrative Agent), to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders. Each Lender shall make each Loan (other than any Negotiated Rate Loan) denominated in an Alternative Currency to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 1:00 p.m., London time (or time of such other city designated by J.P. Morgan Europe Limited), to the account of J.P. Morgan Europe Limited most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders. The Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, will make such Loans available to the applicable Borrower by promptly crediting, before 2:00 p.m. Local Time, the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account of such Borrower maintained with (i) the Administrative Agent in New York City, in the case of Loans denominated in Dollars, and (ii) J.P. Morgan Europe Limited in London (or such other city as J.P. Morgan Europe Limited may designate in respect of the applicable currency), in the case of Loans denominated in any Alternative Currency, in each case designated by such Borrower in the applicable Borrowing Request or Competitive Bid Request. Each Lender making a Negotiated Rate Loan shall make such Loan on the date, at the time and to the account of the applicable Borrower separately agreed between such Lender and such Borrower.
Funding of Borrowings.
(b) Unless the Administrative Agent (and, in the case of an Alternative Currency Borrowing, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited) shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing (other than any Negotiated Rate Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the
 
Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the applicable Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, then the applicable Lender and the applicable Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to such Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, at (i) in the case of such Lender, the greater of (A)(1) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in the case of Loans denominated in Dollars and (2) the rate reasonably determined by J.P. Morgan Europe Limited to be the cost to it of funding such amount, in the case of Loans denominated in any other Currency, and (B) a rate determined by the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation or (ii) in the case of such Borrower, the higher of (A) the interest rate applicable to the Loan in respect of which such payment is owed or (B) the Administrative Agent's or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited's cost of funds, as applicable. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing.
SECTION 2.06. (a) Each Revolving Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request. Thereafter, the applicable Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section, provided that the Currency of a Revolving Borrowing may not be changed in connection with any continuation or conversion of the Interest Period therefor. Alternative Currency Revolving Borrowings may only be Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowings and may not be converted to ABR Revolving Borrowings. The applicable Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing. This Section shall not apply to Competitive Borrowings or Negotiated Rate Borrowings, which may not be converted or continued.
Interest Elections.
(b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, the applicable Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent (and, in the case of an Alternative Currency Borrowing, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited) of such election by telephone by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under if such Borrower were requesting a Revolving Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such telephonic Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent (and, in the case of an Alternative Currency Borrowing, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited) of a written Interest Election Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the applicable Borrower.
Section 2.03
 
(c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with :
Section 2.02
(i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing);
(ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing (in the case of Loans denominated in Dollars only) or a Eurocurrency Borrowing; and
(iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurocurrency Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period".
If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurocurrency Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then the applicable Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration.
(d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, shall advise each applicable Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing.
(e) If the applicable Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period such Borrowing shall be continued as a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing with an Interest Period of one month's duration. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies the applicable Borrower, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing (i) no outstanding Revolving Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurocurrency Borrowing (except as provided in clause (iii) below), (ii) unless repaid, each Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing denominated in Dollars shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto and (iii) unless repaid, each Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing denominated in an Alternative Committed Currency shall be continued as a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing with an Interest Period of one month's duration at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto.
 
SECTION 2.07. (a) Unless previously terminated, the Revolving Commitments shall terminate on the Termination Date.
Termination and Reduction of Revolving Commitments.
(b) The Company may at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Revolving Commitments; that (i) each reduction of the Revolving Commitments shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000 and (ii) the Company shall not terminate or reduce the Revolving Commitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with , the Total Credit Exposure would exceed the total Revolving Commitments.
provided
Section 2.09
(c) The Company shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Revolving Commitments under paragraph (b) of this Section at least three Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by the Company pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; that a notice of termination of the Revolving Commitments delivered by the Company may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by the Company (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Revolving Commitments shall be permanent. Each reduction of the Revolving Commitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Revolving Commitments.
provided
SECTION 2.08. (a) Each Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay (i) on the Termination Date (or, if the Term-Out Option is exercised, on the Extended Maturity Date) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Loan denominated in Dollars owed by such Borrower, (ii) on the Termination Date (or, if the Term-Out Option is exercised, on the Extended Maturity Date) to J.P. Morgan Europe Limited for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency owed by such Borrower, (iii) to the Administrative Agent (or, in the case of an Alternative Currency Borrowing, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited) for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Competitive Loan owed by such Borrower on the last day of the Interest Period applicable to such Loan and (iv) to the applicable Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Negotiated Rate Loan owed by such Borrower on the earlier of the Termination Date and the last day of the Interest Period applicable to such Loan.
Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt.
(b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of each Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
 
(c) The Administrative Agent (and, in the case of an Alternative Currency Borrowing, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited) shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Borrower thereof, the Class, Type and Currency thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from each Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent (or, in the case of an Alternative Currency Borrowing, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited) hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.
(d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section shall be evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; that the failure of any Lender, the Administrative Agent (or, in the case of an Alternative Currency Borrowing, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited) to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of either Borrower to repay its Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
prima facie
provided
(e) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a promissory note. In such event, the applicable Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender a promissory note payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns) and (i) with respect to any Revolving Loan, substantially in the form of , and (ii) with respect to any Loan that is not a Revolving Loan, in a form approved by such Borrower and the Administrative Agent, in each case appropriately completed in conformity with this Agreement. Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such promissory note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 10.04) be represented by one or more promissory notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns).
Exhibit D
(f) Each Lender that makes any Negotiated Rate Loan shall notify the Administrative Agent (and, in the case of an Alternative Currency Borrowing, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited) of each such Loan and of each payment of principal in respect thereof.
SECTION 2.09. (a) Each Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part, subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section; that the Borrowers shall not have the right to prepay any Competitive Loan or Negotiated Rate Loan without the prior consent of the Lender thereof.
Prepayment of Loans.
provided
(b) If, on any Revaluation Date on or prior to the Termination Date, the Total Credit Exposure exceeds 105% of the total Revolving Commitments, then the Company shall, not later than the third Business Day after the Company receives notice thereof from the Administrative Agent, prepay, or cause either or both Borrowers to prepay, without penalty or premium (subject to ), one or more Borrowings in an aggregate amount sufficient to reduce the Total Credit Exposure to an amount not
Section 2.14
 
exceeding the total Revolving Commitments; that the Borrowers shall not be required to prepay any Competitive Loans or Negotiated Rate Loans pursuant to this paragraph.
provided
(c) The Company shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of any prepayment hereunder (i) in the case of prepayment of a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing denominated in Dollars, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment or (ii) in the case of prepayment of an ABR Revolving Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, one Business Day before the date of prepayment. The Company shall notify the Administrative Agent and J.P. Morgan Europe Limited by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of any prepayment hereunder of a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing denominated in any Alternative Currency, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid; that a notice of prepayment of the Loans may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities as contemplated by Section 2.07(c), in which case such notice may be revoked by the Company (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Revolving Borrowing, the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Revolving Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Revolving Borrowing of the same Currency and Type as provided in . Each prepayment of a Revolving Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by .
provided
Section 2.02
Section 2.11
SECTION 2.10. (a) The Company agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a facility fee, which shall accrue at the Applicable Rate on the daily amount of the Revolving Commitment of such Lender (whether used or unused) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the date on which such Revolving Commitment terminates; that, if such Lender continues to have any Revolving Credit Exposure after its Revolving Commitment terminates (including as a result of the exercise of the Term-Out Option), then such facility fee shall continue to accrue on the daily amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure from and including the date on which its Revolving Commitment terminates to but excluding the date on which such Lender ceases to have any Revolving Credit Exposure. The Administrative Agent will give the Company three Business Days' notice of the amount of the facility fee payable on each payment date. Accrued facility fees shall be payable in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year, on the date on which the Revolving Commitments terminate and, if the Term-Out Option is exercised, on each date following the Termination Date on which any Revolving Loans are repaid, commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof; that any facility fees accruing after the date on which the Revolving Commitments terminate (other than as a result of, and following, the exercise of the Term-Out Option) shall be payable on demand. All facility
Fees.
provided
provided
 
fees in respect of Revolving Commitments shall be payable in Dollars and shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
(b) For each day on which the Total Credit Exposure is in excess of 50% of the total Revolving Commitments as of such day and for each day after the termination of the Revolving Commitments on which any Revolving Loan remains outstanding, the Company agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a utilization fee, which shall accrue at the Applicable Rate on the amount of the Revolving Credit Exposure of such Lender on such day. Accrued utilization fees shall be payable in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year and on the date on which the Revolving Commitments terminate and, if the Term-Out Option is exercised, on each date following the Termination Date on which any Revolving Loans are repaid, commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof; that any utilization fees accruing after the date on which the Revolving Commitments terminate (other than as a result of, and following, the exercise of the Term-Out Option) shall be payable on demand. All utilization fees in respect of the Revolving Commitments shall be payable in Dollars and shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
provided
(c) The Company agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, fees payable in Dollars in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon between the Company and the Administrative Agent.
(d) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Administrative Agent for distribution, in the case of facility fees and utilization fees, to the applicable Lenders. Fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
SECTION 2.11. (a) The Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing shall bear interest at the Alternate Base Rate plus, in the case of any such Loan outstanding during the Term-Out Period, 12.5 basis points.
Interest.
(b) The Loans comprising each Eurocurrency Borrowing shall bear interest (i) in the case of a Eurocurrency Revolving Loan, at the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Rate plus, in the case of any such Loan outstanding during the Term-Out Period, 12.5 basis points, or (ii) in the case of a Eurocurrency Competitive Borrowing, at the LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus (or minus, as applicable) the Margin applicable to such Loan; that in the case of a Eurocurrency Revolving Loan denominated in British Pounds Sterling and if the Borrower of such Loan is Fortune Brands UK, such amount shall be increased by the MLA Cost.
provided
(c) Each Fixed Rate Loan shall bear interest at the Fixed Rate applicable to such Loan.
 
(d) Each Negotiated Rate Loan shall bear interest at the rate agreed by the applicable Borrower and the applicable Lender.
(e) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by either Borrower hereunder (other than with respect to any Negotiated Rate Loan) is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided in the preceding paragraphs of this Section or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to ABR Loans as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section. If all or a portion of the principal amount of any Negotiated Rate Loan shall not be paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall, without limiting any rights of any Lender under this Agreement, bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at the rate per annum as shall be mutually agreed upon between the applicable Borrower and the applicable Lender or, in the absence of such agreement, at the rate determined pursuant to the preceding sentence.
(f) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan and, in the case of Revolving Loans, upon termination of the Revolving Commitments and upon any repayment of Revolving Loans following the Termination Date; that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan (other than a prepayment of an ABR Revolving Loan prior to the end of the Availability Period), accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment and (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Eurocurrency Revolving Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion.
provided
(g) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days (subject to any agreement to the contrary, in the case of Negotiated Rate Loans), except that interest on Borrowings denominated in British Pounds Sterling and interest computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Prime Rate shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or, except in the case of Borrowings denominated in British Pounds Sterling, 366 days in a leap year), and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Alternate Base Rate, Adjusted LIBO Rate or LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
SECTION 2.12. If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Borrowing denominated in any Currency:
Alternate Rate of Interest.
(a) the Administrative Agent (in the case of any Revolving Borrowing denominated in Dollars) or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited (in the case of any Revolving Borrowing denominated in any Alternative Currency) determines
 
(which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for the Currency in which such Eurocurrency Borrowing is or is to be denominated (the "") for such Interest Period; or
Applicable Currency
(b) the Administrative Agent (and J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, in the case of any Revolving Borrowing denominated in any Alternative Currency) is advised by the Required Lenders (or, in the case of a Eurocurrency Competitive Loan, the Lender that is required to make such Loan) that the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for such Interest Period for the Applicable Currency will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders (or Lender) of making or maintaining their Loans (or its Loan) included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period;
then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Company and the Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Company and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Revolving Borrowing to, or continuation of any Revolving Borrowing denominated in the Applicable Currency as, a Eurocurrency Borrowing shall be ineffective, and such Borrowing shall be converted to or continued on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto (A) if such Borrowing is denominated in Dollars, as an ABR Borrowing, or (B) if such Borrowing is denominated in an Alternative Committed Currency, as a Borrowing bearing interest at such rate as the Lenders participating in such Borrowing and the applicable Borrower may agree adequately reflects the costs to such Lenders of making or maintaining their Loans plus the Applicable Rate plus, in the case of any such Borrowing outstanding during the Term-Out Period, 12.5 basis points (or, in the absence of such agreement, shall be repaid as of the last day of the current Interest Period applicable thereto), (ii) if any Borrowing Request requests a Eurocurrency Revolving Borrowing denominated in the Applicable Currency, such Revolving Borrowing shall be made as an ABR Borrowing denominated in Dollars (or such Borrowing shall not be made if the applicable Borrower revokes (and in such circumstances, such Borrowing Request may be revoked notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement) such Borrowing Request by telephonic notice, confirmed promptly in writing, not later than one Business Day prior to the proposed date of such Borrowing) and (iii) any request by a Borrower for a Eurocurrency Competitive Borrowing denominated in the Applicable Currency shall be ineffective; that if the circumstances giving rise to such notice do not affect all the Lenders, then requests by a Borrower for Eurocurrency Competitive Borrowings denominated in the Applicable Currency may be made to Lenders that are not affected thereby.
provided
SECTION 2.13. (a) If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs.
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted LIBO Rate); or
 
(ii) impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or Eurocurrency Loans or Fixed Rate Loans made by such Lender;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurocurrency Loan or Fixed Rate Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then the Company will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) If any Lender determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Loans made by such Lender to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Company will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
(c) If the cost to any Lender of making or maintaining any Loan to Fortune Brands UK is increased (or the amount of any sum received or receivable by any Lender (or its applicable lending office) is reduced) by an amount deemed in good faith by such Lender to be material, by reason of the fact that Fortune Brands UK is incorporated in, or conducts business in, a jurisdiction outside the United States, Fortune Brands UK will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such increased cost or reduction suffered.
(d) A certificate of a Lender setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in ,  or  of this Section shall be delivered to the Company and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Company or the applicable Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof. In requesting any compensation pursuant to this Section, each Lender will use good faith efforts to treat the Borrowers in substantially the same manner as such Lender treats other similarly situated borrowers under similar circumstances.
paragraph (a)
(b)
(c)
(e) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation; that, in the case of a Change in Law, the Company shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 270 days prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Company of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of
provided
 
such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor; that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 270-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
provided
further
(f) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section, a Lender shall not be entitled to compensation pursuant to this Section in respect of any Competitive Loan (i) in the case of  or , if the Change in Law that would otherwise entitle it to such compensation shall have been publicly announced prior to submission of the Competitive Bid pursuant to which such Loan was made or (ii) in the case of paragraph (c), in respect of any costs referred to therein.
paragraph (a)
(b)
SECTION 2.14. In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurocurrency Loan, Fixed Rate Loan, or, unless otherwise agreed to by the applicable Borrower and the applicable Lender with respect to a Negotiated Rate Loan, a Negotiated Rate Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Eurocurrency Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Revolving Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice may be revoked under and is revoked in accordance therewith), (d) the failure to borrow any Competitive Loan after accepting the Competitive Bid to make such Loan, or (e) the assignment of any Eurocurrency Loan, Fixed Rate Loan or, unless otherwise agreed to by the applicable Borrower and the applicable Lender with respect to a Negotiated Rate Loan, Negotiated Rate Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by the Company pursuant to Section 2.17, then, in any such event, the Company or the applicable Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event. In the case of a Eurocurrency Loan, such loss, cost or expense to any Lender may include an amount reasonably determined by such Lender to be incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of funds, but excluding loss of anticipated profits. A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section shall be delivered to the Company and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Company or the applicable Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Break Funding Payments.
Section 2.09(c)
SECTION 2.15. (a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of either Borrower hereunder shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes; that if either Borrower shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent or Lender (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) such Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) such Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Taxes.
provided
 
(b) In addition, the Borrowers shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
(c) The relevant Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent or the relevant Lender, as the case may be, within 10 days after written demand therefor is made (which demand shall set forth in reasonable detail the basis for the determination that the Borrower is liable), for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes paid by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of the Borrowers hereunder (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to either Borrower by a Lender, or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
(d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by either Borrower to a Governmental Authority, such Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
(e) Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which either Borrower is located, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to such Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by such Borrower as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate, provided that such Foreign Lender has received written notice from such Borrower advising it of the availability of such exemption or reduction and supplying all applicable documentation.
(f) If the Administrative Agent or a Lender determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by either Borrower or with respect to which either Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this , it shall pay over such refund to such Borrower (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by such Borrower under this with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent or such Lender and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund); , that such Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to such Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the
Section 2.15
Section 2.15
provided
 
event the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This Section shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes which it deems confidential) to either Borrower or any other Person.
SECTION 2.16. (a) Each Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder other than any payments with respect to Negotiated Rate Loans (whether of principal, interest or fees, or of amounts payable under , , or , or otherwise) prior to 12:00 noon, Local Time on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without set-off or counterclaim. Any amounts received after such time on any date may, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments to be made to the Administrative Agent shall be made to it at its offices at 270 Park Avenue, New York, New York, all such payments to be made to J.P. Morgan Europe Limited shall be made to it at its offices at 9 Thomas More Street, London, United Kingdom, and payments pursuant to , , , and shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. All payments (including prepayments) to be made by the Borrowers on account of principal, interest and fees relating to Negotiated Rate Loans shall be made to the Lender with respect thereto on such terms, at such address and at such time as shall be mutually agreed upon between the applicable Borrower and the applicable Lender in Dollars or the Alternative Currency agreed on the date due. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments hereunder of principal or interest in respect of any Loan (or of any amounts payable under or, at the request of the applicable Lender, , or in respect of any Loan) shall be made in the currency in which such Loan is denominated; all other payments hereunder shall be made in Dollars, except as otherwise expressly provided. Any payment required to be made by the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited hereunder shall be deemed to have been made by the time required if the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, shall, at or before such time, have taken the necessary steps to make such payment in accordance with the regulations or operating procedures of the clearing or settlement system used by the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, to make such payment. Any amount payable by the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, to one or more Lenders in the national currency of a member state of the European Union that has adopted the Euro as its lawful currency shall be paid in Euro.
Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Set-offs.
Section 2.13
2.14
2.15
2.18
Sections 2.13
2.14
2.15
2.18
10.03
Section 2.14
Section 2.13
2.15
2.18
(b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited to pay fully all amounts of principal, interest and fees then due hereunder (other than with respect to Negotiated Rate
 
Loans), such funds shall be applied (i) first, towards payment of interest and fees then due hereunder (other than with respect to Negotiated Rate Loans), ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, towards payment of principal then due hereunder (other than with respect to Negotiated Rate Loans), ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal then due to such parties.
(c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Revolving Loans resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Revolving Loans and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Revolving Loans of other Lenders to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Revolving Loans; that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by either Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans or participations to any assignee or participant, other than to either Borrower or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). Each Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against such Borrower rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of such Borrower in the amount of such participation.
provided
(d) Unless the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, shall have received notice from the applicable Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, for the account of the Lenders hereunder that such Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, may assume that such Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders the amount due. In such event, if such Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, at (i) the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation (in the case of an amount denominated in Dollars) and (ii) the rate reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, to be the cost to it of funding such amount (in the case of an amount denominated in any other currency).
 
(e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to or , then the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, for the account of such Lender to satisfy such Lender's obligations under such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid.
Section 2.05(b)
2.16(d)
SECTION 2.17. (a) If any Lender requests compensation under or , or if either Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to , or , as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Company hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders.
Section 2.13
2.18
Section 2.15
Section 2.13
2.15
2.18
(b) If any Lender requests compensation under or , or if either Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender defaults in its obligation to fund Loans hereunder, then the Company may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, either (x) so long as no Default has occurred and is continuing, terminate the Revolving Commitment of such Lender and prepay all outstanding Loans (other than Competitive Loans and Negotiated Rate Loans) of such Lender or (y) require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in ), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement (other than any outstanding Competitive Loans and Negotiated Rate Loans held by it) to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that (i) in the case of an assignment to a Person not then a Lender, the Company shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, and (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans (other than Competitive Loans and Negotiated Rate Loans), accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the applicable Borrower or Borrowers (in the case of all other amounts). The applicable Borrower shall not be entitled to terminate a Lender's Revolving Commitment and prepay its Loans as provided in clause (x) above, and a Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation as provided in clause (y) above, if, prior
Section 2.13
2.18
Section 2.15
Section 10.04
provided
 
thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Company to effect such termination and prepayment or to require such assignment and delegation, as the case may be, cease to apply.
SECTION 2.18. (a) If and so long as any Lender is required to make special deposits with the Bank of England, or to maintain reserve asset ratios or to pay fees (other than deposits or reserves reflected in the determination of the Adjusted LIBO Rate), in each case in respect of such Lender's Eurocurrency Loans in any Alternative Currency, such Lender may require the relevant Borrower to pay, contemporaneously with each payment of interest on each of such Loans, additional interest on such Loans at a rate per annum equal to the MLA Cost calculated in accordance with the formula and in the manner set forth in .
Additional Reserve Costs.
Exhibit C
(b) If and so long as any Lender is required to comply with reserve assets, liquidity, cash margin or other requirements of any monetary or other authority (other than any such requirements reflected in the determination of the Adjusted LIBO Rate) (including any such requirement imposed by the European Central Bank or the European System of Central Banks, but excluding requirements reflected in the Statutory Reserves or the MLA Cost) in respect of any of such Lender's Eurocurrency Loans in any Alternative Currency, such Lender may require the relevant Borrower to pay, contemporaneously with each payment of interest on each of such Lender's Eurocurrency Loans subject to such requirements, additional interest on such Loans at a rate per annum specified by such Lender to be the cost to such Lender of complying with such requirements in relation to such Loan.
(c) Any additional interest owed pursuant to paragraph (a) or (b) above shall be determined by the relevant Lender, which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and notified to the relevant Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent and, if applicable, J.P. Morgan Europe Limited) at least five Business Days before each date on which interest is payable for the relevant Loan, and such additional interest so notified to the relevant Borrower by such Lender shall be payable to the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, for the account of such Lender on each date on which interest is payable for such Loan.
SECTION 2.19. (a) Each obligation of any party to this Agreement to make a payment denominated in the national currency unit of any member state of the European Union that adopts the Euro as its lawful currency after the date hereof shall be redenominated into Euro at the time of such adoption (in accordance with the EMU Legislation). If, in relation to the currency of any such member state, the basis of accrual of interest expressed in this Agreement in respect of that currency shall be inconsistent with any convention or practice in the London Interbank Market for the basis of accrual of interest in respect of the Euro, such expressed basis shall be replaced by such convention or practice with effect from the date on which such member state adopts the Euro as its lawful currency; that if any Borrowing in the currency of such member state is outstanding immediately prior to such date, such replacement shall take effect, with respect to such Borrowing, at the end of the then current Interest Period.
Redenomination of Certain Designated Foreign Currencies.
provided
 
(b) Each provision of this Agreement shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as the Administrative Agent (in consultation with the Company) may from time to time specify to be appropriate to reflect the adoption of the Euro by any member state of the European Union and any relevant market conventions or practices relating to the Euro.
SECTION 2.20. The Company may, so long as no Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such notice and on the Termination Date, upon 15 days' prior written notice to the Administrative Agent, elect (the "") that Revolving Loans outstanding on the Termination Date remain outstanding after the Termination Date as term loans that will mature on the Extended Maturity Date; that all Revolving Commitments will terminate on the Termination Date, and additional Revolving Borrowings will not be permitted after the Termination Date. This shall not apply to Competitive Loans and Negotiated Rate Loans, which must be repaid on or prior to the Termination Date. If the Company exercises its option pursuant to this , Revolving Loans that are outstanding on the Termination Date will continue to constitute "Revolving Loans" for all purposes of this Agreement after the Termination Date.
Term-Out Option.
Term-Out Option
provided
Section 2.20
Section 2.20
SECTION 2.21.  (a) With respect to each Alternative Currency Borrowing, its "Assigned Dollar Value" shall mean the following:
Assigned Dollar Value.
(i) the Dollar amount specified in the Borrowing Request therefor (or (A) in the case of a Competitive Borrowing, the Dollar amount thereof accepted pursuant to or (B) in the case of a Negotiated Rate Borrowing, (x) denominated in Dollars, the Dollar amount of such Borrowing and (y) denominated in any Alternative Currency, the Dollar Equivalent thereof as determined by the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, based upon the applicable Spot Exchange Rate at or about the date of such Borrowing, which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) unless and until adjusted pursuant to the following clause (ii); and
Section 2.04
(ii) as of each Revaluation Date with respect to such Alternative Currency Borrowing, the "Assigned Dollar Value" of such Borrowing shall be adjusted to be the Dollar Equivalent thereof (as determined by the Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, based upon the applicable Spot Exchange Rate as of the date that is three Business Days before such Revaluation Date (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error))(subject to further adjustment in accordance with this clause (ii) thereafter).
(b) The Assigned Dollar Value of an Alternative Currency Loan shall equal the Assigned Dollar Value of the Alternative Currency Borrowing of which such Loan is a part multiplied by the percentage of such Borrowing represented by such Loan.
(c) The Administrative Agent or J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, as applicable, shall notify the Company of any change in the Assigned Dollar Value of any Alternative Currency Borrowing promptly following determination of such change.
 
The Company represents and warrants to the Lenders that:
SECTION 3.01. Each of the Company and its Subsidiaries (a) is duly organized and validly existing, except when failure to be so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, (b) is in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization and has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now conducted, except where the failure to be so, or to have such, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, and (c) is qualified to do business in and is in good standing in every jurisdiction where such qualification is required, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Organization; Powers.
SECTION 3.02. The Transactions are within each Borrower's corporate powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate and, if required, stockholder action. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by each Borrower and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Borrower, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
Authorization; Enforceability.
SECTION 3.03. The Transactions (a) do not require any consent or approval of, registration or filing with, or any other action by, any Governmental Authority, except such as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, (b) will not violate any applicable law or regulation binding upon either Borrower or any of its Material Subsidiaries or the charter, by-laws or other organizational documents of either Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or any order of any Governmental Authority binding upon either Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, (c) will not violate or result in a default under any material indenture, agreement or other instrument binding upon either Borrower or any of its Material Subsidiaries or its assets, or give rise to a right thereunder to require any payment to be made by either Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, and (d) will not result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any material asset of either Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.
Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts.
SECTION 3.04. (a) The Company has heretofore furnished to the Lenders its consolidated balance sheet and statements of income, stockholders equity and cash flows (i) as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, reported on by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent public accountants, and (ii) as of and for the fiscal quarter and the portion of the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007, as filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such financial
Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Change.
 
statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of such dates and for such periods in accordance with GAAP, subject to year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes in the case of the statements referred to in clause (ii) above.
(b) Since December 31, 2006, there has been no material adverse change in the business, assets, operations or financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
SECTION 3.05. (a) Each of the Company and its Subsidiaries has good title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all its real and personal property material to its business, except for such defects in title that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Properties.
(b) Each of the Company and its Subsidiaries owns, or is licensed to use, all trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property material to its business, and the use thereof by the Company and its Subsidiaries does not, to the knowledge of the Company, infringe upon the rights of any other Person, except for any such infringements that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 3.06. (a) There are no actions, suits or proceedings by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority pending against or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against or affecting the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (i) as to which there is a reasonable possibility of an adverse determination and that, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect (other than the Disclosed Matters) or (ii) that specifically involve this Agreement or the Transactions.
Litigation and Environmental Matters.
(b) Except for the Disclosed Matters and except with respect to any other matters that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, none of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (i) has failed to comply with any Environmental Law or to obtain, maintain or comply with any permit, license or other approval required under any Environmental Law, (ii) has incurred any Environmental Liability, (iii) has received notice of any claim with respect to any Environmental Liability or (iv) knows of any facts or circumstances that could reasonably be expected to result in any Environmental Liability.
SECTION 3.07. Each of the Company and its Subsidiaries is in compliance with all laws, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property and all indentures, agreements and other instruments binding upon it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws and Agreements.
 
SECTION 3.08. None of the Company or any of Subsidiaries is an "investment company" registered or required to be registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
Investment Company Status.
SECTION 3.09. Each of the Company and its Subsidiaries has timely filed or caused to be filed all Tax returns and reports required to have been filed and has paid or caused to be paid all Taxes required to have been paid by it, except (a) any Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which the Company or such Subsidiary, as applicable, has set aside on its books adequate reserves or (b) to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Taxes.
SECTION 3.10. No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur that, when taken together with all other such ERISA Events for which liability is likely to occur, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
ERISA.
SECTION 3.11. The Information Memorandum furnished by or on behalf of the Company to the Administrative Agent and Lenders in connection with the negotiation of this Agreement (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) did not as of the date thereof contain any material misstatement of fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Disclosure.
SECTION 4.01. The effectiveness of this Agreement is subject to the satisfaction (or waiver in accordance with ) of the following conditions:
Effectiveness.
Section 10.02
(a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from each party hereto either (i) a counterpart of this Agreement signed on behalf of such party or (ii) written evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include telecopy transmission of a signed signature page of this Agreement) that such party has signed a counterpart of this Agreement.
(b) The Administrative Agent shall have received a favorable written opinion (addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and dated the Effective Date) of each of Chadbourne & Parke LLP, counsel for the Company, and Chadbourne & Parke, United Kingdom counsel for Fortune Brands UK, substantially in the form of and , respectively, and covering such other matters relating to the Borrowers, this Agreement or the Transactions as the Required Lenders shall reasonably request. Each Borrower hereby requests such counsel to deliver such opinions.
Exhibits B-1
B-2
 
(c) The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of each of the Borrowers, the authorization of the Transactions and any other legal matters relating to either of the Borrowers, this Agreement or the Transactions, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
(d) The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate in the form of , dated the Effective Date and signed by the President, a Vice President or a Financial Officer of the Company, confirming compliance with the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02.
Exhibit F
(e) The Administrative Agent shall have received all fees and other amounts due and payable on or prior to the Effective Date, including, to the extent invoiced, reimbursement or payment of all out-of-pocket expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by the Borrowers hereunder.
(f) On the Effective Date, no Loans shall be outstanding under the Existing Credit Agreement and all interest, fees or other amounts accrued or owing under the Existing Credit Agreement shall have been paid.
The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrowers and the Lenders of the Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder shall not become effective unless each of the foregoing conditions is satisfied (or waived pursuant to ) no later than October 4, 2007 (and, in the event such conditions are not so satisfied or waived, the Revolving Commitments shall terminate at such time).
Section 10.02
SECTION 4.02. The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
Each Credit Event.
(a) The representations and warranties of the Borrowers set forth in this Agreement (other than, for any Borrowing made after the Effective Date, the representations and warranties set forth in and ) shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Borrowing.
Sections 3.04(b)
3.06
(b) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
Each Borrowing shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by each Borrower on the date thereof as to the matters specified in  and  of this Section.
paragraphs (a)
(b)
 
Until the Revolving Commitments have expired or been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder shall have been paid in full, the Company covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
SECTION 5.01. The Company will furnish to the Administrative Agent (with sufficient copies for each Lender):
Financial Statements and Other Information.
(a) within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company, its audited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all reported on by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP or other independent public accountants of recognized national standing to the effect that such consolidated financial statements present fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied;
(b) within 60 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Company, its consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such fiscal quarter and the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding period or periods of (or, in the case of the balance sheet, as of the end of) the previous fiscal year, all certified by one of its Financial Officers as presenting fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes;
(c) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under clause (a) or (b) above, a certificate of a Financial Officer of the Company (i) certifying as to whether a Default has occurred and, if a Default has occurred, specifying the details thereof and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto, (ii) setting forth reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating compliance with Section 6.06 and (iii) stating whether any change in GAAP or in the application thereof has occurred since the date of the audited financial statements referred to in Section 3.04 and, if any such change has occurred, specifying the effect of such change on the financial statements accompanying such certificate; and
(d) promptly following any request therefor, such other information regarding the operations, business affairs and financial condition of the Company or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of this Agreement, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may reasonably request.
 
The Company may at its option satisfy its obligations under Section 5.01(a) and 5.01(b) by delivering copies of its Form 10-K and Form 10-Q filings (or any successor forms), respectively, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the relevant period; that such filings contain the required information and are certified by a Financial Officer of the Company.
provided
SECTION 5.02. The Company will furnish to the Administrative Agent and each Lender prompt written notice of the following:
Notices of Material Events.
(a) the occurrence of any Default; and
(b) the occurrence of any ERISA Event that, alone or together with any other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Company and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount exceeding $50,000,000.
Each notice delivered under this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Financial Officer or other executive officer of the Company setting forth the details of the event or development requiring such notice and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto.
SECTION 5.03. The Company will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its legal existence and the rights, licenses, permits, privileges and franchises; that the foregoing shall not prohibit any merger, consolidation, liquidation or dissolution permitted under Section 6.04 or any transfer, disposition or abandonment of rights, licenses, permits, privileges or franchises that could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Existence; Conduct of Business.
provided
SECTION 5.04. The Company will pay and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay their respective obligations, including Tax liabilities, that, if not paid, could result in a Material Adverse Effect, except where (a) the validity or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and (b) the Company or such Subsidiary has set aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto in accordance with GAAP.
Payment of Obligations.
SECTION 5.05. The Company will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, (a) keep and maintain all property in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, except for any such failure as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, and (b) maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies, insurance in such amounts and against such risks as are considered appropriate by management of the Company.
Maintenance of Properties; Insurance.
SECTION 5.06. The Company will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, keep proper books of record and account
Books and Records; Inspection Rights.
 
that will enable the Company to comply with its obligations under Section 5.01(a) and (b) of this Agreement. Each Borrower will permit any representatives designated by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, at the expense of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, upon reasonable prior notice, to visit and inspect its properties, and to discuss its affairs, finances and condition with its officers, all at such reasonable times (during normal business hours) and as often as reasonably requested.
SECTION 5.07. The Company will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws.
SECTION 5.08. The proceeds of the Loans will be used only for general corporate purposes, including support of commercial paper issued by the Company, and to refinance amounts that may be outstanding under the Existing Credit Agreement. No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used, whether directly or indirectly, for any purpose that entails a violation of Regulation U or X of the Board.
Use of Proceeds.
SECTION 5.09. Promptly, and in any event within five days, after the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (a) the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q (or any successor form) for any fiscal quarter or (b) a Form 8-K (or any successor form) relating to legal proceedings, the Company shall furnish to the Administrative Agent (with sufficient copies for each Lender) a copy of such Form 10-Q (including, if requested by any Lender, any exhibits thereto relating to information required by Item 1 ("Legal Proceedings") of Part II of Form 10-Q) or such Form 8-K, as applicable.
Litigation Report.
Until the Revolving Commitments have expired or terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder have been paid in full, the Company covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
SECTION 6.01. . The Company will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to issue, assume, guarantee or incur any Funded Debt except:
Restrictions on Borrowing by Restricted Subsidiaries
(a) Funded Debt owed to the Company or to a Restricted Subsidiary;
(b) Funded Debt which is Secured Debt permitted by Section 6.02 without equally and ratably securing the Obligations;
(c) unsecured Funded Debt issued, assumed, guaranteed or incurred which represents an extension, renewal or refunding of Secured Debt permitted by the first paragraph of Section 6.02 to the extent of the principal amount of the Secured Debt so extended, renewed or refunded;
 
(d) unsecured Funded Debt in an amount which, if it were Secured Debt, would be permitted by the second paragraph of Section 6.02 without equally and ratably securing the Obligations;
(e) unsecured Funded Debt assumed by a Restricted Subsidiary in connection with its merger with, or acquisition of all or a substantial part of the assets and business of, any Person and which constitutes existing indebtedness or an existing guarantee of such Person;
(f) unsecured Funded Debt of a Person existing at the time it becomes a Restricted Subsidiary;
(g) Funded Debt created in connection with any industrial revenue bond, pollution control bond or similar financing arrangement between the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary and the United States, any State thereof or any municipal government or other governmental body or agency; and
(h) any extension, renewal or refunding (or successive extensions, renewals or refundings), in whole or in part, of any Funded Debt referred to in the foregoing clauses (a) through (g).
SECTION 6.02. The Company will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, issue, assume, guarantee or incur any Secured Debt, without effectively providing that the Obligations (together with, if the Company shall so determine, any other indebtedness of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary then existing or thereafter created ranking equally with the Obligations, including guarantees of indebtedness of others) shall be secured equally and ratably with (or prior to) such Secured Debt, so long as such Secured Debt shall be so secured, except that this shall not apply to Secured Debt secured by:
Restrictions on Secured Debt.
Section 6.02
(a) mortgages on property of any Person existing at the time such Person becomes a Restricted Subsidiary;
(b) mortgages on property of any Person which is merged with, or all or a substantial part of whose properties are acquired by, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary; that any such mortgage shall have existed prior to such merger or acquisition and shall not have applied to any property owned by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary immediately prior to such merger or acquisition;
provided
(c) mortgages upon or with respect to any property acquired, constructed or improved by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary after the date hereof which are created, incurred or assumed contemporaneously with, or within 90 days after, such acquisition, completion of construction or completion of improvement to secure or provide for the payment of any part of the purchase
 
price of such property or the cost of such construction or improvement, or mortgages upon or with respect to any property existing at the time of acquisition thereof; that any such mortgage shall not apply to any property theretofore owned by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary other than any theretofore unimproved real property on which the property so constructed, or the improvement, is located;
provided
(d) mortgages which secure indebtedness owing to the Company or to a Restricted Subsidiary;
(e) the mortgage of any property of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary in favor of the United States, or any State thereof, or any department, agency or instrumentality of either, to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments to the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary pursuant to the provisions of any contract or statute;
(f) the mortgage of any property of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary created, incurred or assumed in connection with any industrial revenue bond, pollution control bond or similar financing arrangement between the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary and the United States, any state thereof or any municipal government or other governmental body or agency; or
(g) any extension, renewal or refunding (or successive extensions, renewals or refundings), in whole or in part, of any mortgage referred to in the foregoing clauses (a) through (f), or of any indebtedness secured thereby; that such extension, renewal or refunding mortgage shall be limited to all or any part of the same property that secured the mortgage extended, renewed or refunded (plus improvements on such property).
provided
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6.02, the Company and any one or more Restricted Subsidiaries may issue, assume, guarantee or incur Secured Debt, without equally and ratably securing the Obligations, if after giving effect thereto, the sum of (i) the aggregate amount of all Secured Debt of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries (except Secured Debt pursuant to  through  of the first paragraph of this ), (ii) the aggregate Value of sale and lease back transactions to which applies and (iii) the aggregate amount of all unsecured outstanding Funded Debt of all Restricted Subsidiaries permitted under (or any extension, renewal or refunding thereof), does not exceed 10% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
clauses (a)
(g)
Section 6.02
Section 6.03
Section 6.01(d)
If the Company shall hereafter be required to secure the Obligations equally and ratably with (or prior to) any other indebtedness pursuant to this Section 6.02, (i) the Company will promptly deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of a Financial Officer of the Company stating that such covenant has been complied with, and an opinion of counsel to the Company stating that in the opinion of such counsel such covenant has been complied with, that any instruments executed by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary in the performance of such covenant comply with the requirements
 
of such covenant and that all steps necessary to perfect such security have been taken, and (ii) the Administrative Agent is hereby authorized to enter into such instruments and to take such action, if any, as it may deem advisable to enable it to enforce the rights of the Lenders of such Obligations so secured.
SECTION 6.03. The Company will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, sell or transfer (other than to the Company or to a Restricted Subsidiary) any property owned by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary on the date hereof, which (as determined by a Board Resolution) constitutes a major facility of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, with the intention of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary taking back a lease of such property, except a lease for a temporary period (not exceeding five years) by the end of which it is intended that the use of such property by the lessee will be discontinued. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may so sell any such property and lease it back if (a) the Company promptly gives notice of such sale to the Administrative Agent; (b) the net proceeds of such sale are at least equal to the fair value (as determined by Board Resolution) of such property; and (c) the Company shall, and in any such case the Company covenants that it will, within 120 days after such sale, apply, or cause such Restricted Subsidiary to apply, not less than an amount equal to the net proceeds of such sale to the retirement of outstanding Funded Debt of the Company and/or any Restricted Subsidiary (other than any thereof which is owed to the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary and other than any thereof which is subordinate in right of payment to the Obligations); that the amount to be applied to the retirement of Funded Debt of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary shall be reduced by
Restrictions on Sale and Lease Back Transactions.
provided
(i) the amount of Secured Debt which the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary could at that time issue, assume, guarantee or incur pursuant to the second paragraph of without equally and ratably securing the Obligations, and
Section 6.02
(ii) the principal amount of any debentures, notes or other instruments evidencing Funded Debt of the Company (which may include Obligations) or of a Restricted Subsidiary delivered within 120 days after such sale to the applicable trustee for retirement and cancellation, other than any debentures, notes or other instruments retired by payment at maturity or pursuant to any mandatory sinking fund payment or any mandatory prepayment provision.
SECTION 6.04. (a) The Company shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey or transfer its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless
Fundamental Changes.
(i) the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety shall be a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States or any State or the District of Columbia and expressly assume, in form reasonably satisfactory to the
 
Administrative Agent, the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on all the Loans and the performance of every covenant of this Agreement on the part of the Company to be performed or observed;
(ii) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing; and
(iii) the Company shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent a certificate of a duly authorized officer of the Company and an opinion of legal counsel to the Company (which shall be reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent), each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance or transfer comply with this and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
Section 6.04(a)
(b) Upon any consolidation or merger, or any conveyance or transfer of the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety in accordance with Section 6.04(a), the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such conveyance or transfer is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Agreement with the same effect as if such successor corporation had been named as the Company herein, and thereafter the predecessor corporation shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Agreement and any promissory notes issued hereunder and may be liquidated and dissolved.
(c) The Company shall not permit Fortune Brands UK to consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey or transfer its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless the Person formed by such consolidation or into which Fortune Brands UK is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of Fortune Brands UK substantially as an entirety shall be a wholly-owned Subsidiary organized and existing under the laws of the United Kingdom or any political subdivision thereof, and expressly assume, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on all the Loans to Fortune Brands UK and the performance of every covenant of this Agreement on the part of Fortune Brands UK to be performed or observed.
(d) Upon any consolidation or merger, or any conveyance or transfer of the properties and assets of Fortune Brands UK substantially as an entirety in accordance with , the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or into which Fortune Brands UK is merged or to which such conveyance or transfer is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, Fortune Brands UK under this Agreement with the same effect as if such successor corporation had been named as Fortune Brands UK herein, and thereafter the predecessor corporation shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Agreement and any promissory notes issued hereunder and may be liquidated and dissolved.
Section 6.04(c)
 
SECTION 6.05. The Company will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries or Fortune Brands UK to, sell, lease or otherwise transfer any property or assets to, or purchase, lease or otherwise acquire any property or assets from, or otherwise engage in any other transactions with, any of its Affiliates, except (a) at prices and on terms and conditions not materially less favorable to the Company or such Subsidiary than could be obtained on an arm's-length basis from unrelated third parties and (b) transactions between or among the Company and its Subsidiaries.
Transactions with Affiliates.
SECTION 6.06. The Company will not permit the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA to (b) Consolidated Interest Expense, each as calculated as at the end of any fiscal quarter ending on or after the Effective Date for the period of four prior consecutive fiscal quarters then ended, to be less than 3.50 to 1.00.
Interest Coverage Ratio.
If any of the following events ("") shall occur:
Events of Default
(a) either Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or otherwise;
(b) (i) either Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Loan when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of five Business Days or (ii) either Borrower shall fail to pay any fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in clause (a) or (b)(i) of this Article) payable under this Agreement, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of five Business Days after notice thereof from the Administrative Agent to the Company (which notice will be given at the request of any Lender);
(c) any representation or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in this Agreement or any amendment or modification hereof or waiver hereunder, or in any report, certificate, financial statement or other document furnished pursuant to this Agreement or any amendment or modification hereof or waiver hereunder, shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made;
(d) the Company shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Section 5.02, 5.03 (with respect to either Borrower's existence) or 5.08 or in Article VI;
(e) either Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in this Agreement (other than those specified in clause (a), (b), (c), (d) or (n) of this Article), and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after notice thereof from the Administrative Agent to the Company (which notice will be given at the request of any Lender);
 
(f) the Company or any of its Subsidiaries shall fail to make any payment (of principal or interest and regardless of amount) in respect of any Material Indebtedness, when and as the same shall become due and payable (after giving effect to any period of grace or notice requirement thereunder);
(g) any Material Indebtedness becomes due prior to its scheduled maturity or the holder or holders of any Material Indebtedness or any trustee or agent on its or their behalf cause any Material Indebtedness to become due, or require the prepayment, repurchase, redemption or defeasance thereof, prior to its scheduled maturity; that this clause (g) shall not apply to secured Indebtedness that becomes due as a result of the voluntary sale or transfer of the property or assets securing such Indebtedness;
provided
(h) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed seeking (i) liquidation, reorganization or other relief in respect of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries or its debts, or of a substantial part of its assets, under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect or (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries or for a substantial part of its assets, and, in any such case, such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered;
(i) the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or petition described in clause (h) of this Article, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries or for a substantial part of its assets, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing;
(j) the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts as they become due;
(k) one or more final judgments for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $100,000,000 shall be rendered against the Company, any of its Material Subsidiaries or any combination thereof and the same shall remain undischarged for a period of 60 consecutive days during which execution shall not
 
be effectively stayed, or any action shall be legally taken by a judgment creditor to attach or levy upon any assets of the Company or any of its Material Subsidiaries to enforce any such judgment;
(l) an ERISA Event shall have occurred that, in the opinion of the Required Lenders, when taken together with all other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
(m) a Change in Control shall occur; or
(n) the Company shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Section 5.09, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of five Business Days after notice thereof from the Administrative Agent to the Company (which notice will be given at the request of any Lender);
then, and in every such event (other than an event with respect to either Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, at the request of the Required Lenders the Administrative Agent shall, by notice to the Company, take either or both of the following actions, at the same or different times: (i) terminate the Revolving Commitments, and thereupon the Revolving Commitments shall terminate immediately, and (ii) declare the Loans then outstanding to be due and payable in whole (or in part, in which case any principal not so declared to be due and payable may thereafter be declared to be due and payable), and thereupon the principal of the Loans so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrowers accrued hereunder, shall become due and payable immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrowers; and in case of any event with respect to either Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article, the Revolving Commitments shall automatically terminate and the principal of the Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrowers accrued hereunder, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrowers.
Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints the Administrative Agent as its agent and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.
The bank serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates
 
may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with either Borrower or any of its subsidiaries or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not the Administrative Agent hereunder.
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Administrative Agent shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 10.02), and (c) except as expressly set forth herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to either Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 10.02) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to the Administrative Agent by the applicable Borrower or a Lender, and the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection herewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article IV or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrowers), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
The Administrative Agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related
 
Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facility provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Administrative Agent as provided in this paragraph, the Administrative Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders and the Company. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Company, to appoint a successor. If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after such retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent, which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by the Company to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Company and such successor. After the Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 10.03 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while it was acting as Administrative Agent.
Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
In order to induce the Lenders to extend credit to Fortune Brands UK hereunder, the Company hereby irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees, as a primary obligor and not merely as a surety, the Obligations of Fortune Brands UK. The Company further agrees that the due and punctual payment of the Obligations of Fortune Brands UK may be extended or renewed, in whole or in part, without notice to or further assent from it, and that it will remain bound upon its guarantee hereunder notwithstanding any such extension or renewal of any Obligation.
 
The Company waives presentment to, demand of payment from and protest to Fortune Brands UK of any of the Obligations, and also waives notice of acceptance of its obligations and notice of protest for nonpayment. The obligations of the Company hereunder shall not be affected by (a) the failure of any Lender to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any right or remedy against Fortune Brands UK under the provisions of this Agreement or otherwise; (b) any extension or renewal of any of the Obligations; (c) any rescission, waiver, amendment or modification of, or release from, any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement or any other agreement; (d) the failure or delay of any Lender to exercise any right or remedy against any other guarantor of the Obligations; (e) the failure of any Lender to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any remedy under any other agreement or instrument; (f) any default, failure or delay, willful or otherwise, in the performance of the Obligations; or (g) any other act, omission or delay to do any other act which may or might in any manner or to any extent vary the risk of the Company or otherwise operate as a discharge of the Company as a matter of law or equity or which would impair or eliminate any right of the Company to subrogation, in each case, other than payment in full of the Obligations after termination of the Revolving Commitments.
The Company further agrees that its guarantee hereunder constitutes a promise of payment when due (whether or not any bankruptcy or similar proceeding shall have stayed the accrual or collection of any of the Obligations or operated as a discharge thereof) and not merely of collection, and waives any right to require that any resort be had by any Lender to any balance of any deposit account or credit on the books of any Lender in favor of either Borrower or Subsidiary or any other Person.
The obligations of the Company hereunder shall not be subject to any reduction, limitation, impairment or termination for any reason, and shall not be subject to any defense or setoff, counterclaim, recoupment or termination whatsoever, by reason of the invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of the Obligations, any impossibility in the performance of the Obligations or otherwise, in each case, other than the defense of payment in full of the Obligations.
The Company further agrees that its obligations hereunder shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment, or any part thereof, of any Obligation is rescinded or must otherwise be restored by any Lender upon the bankruptcy or reorganization of either Borrower or otherwise.
In furtherance of the foregoing and not in limitation of any other right which any Lender may have at law or in equity against the Company by virtue hereof, upon the failure of Fortune Brands UK to pay any Obligation when and as the same shall become due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, after notice of prepayment or otherwise, the Company hereby promises to and will, upon receipt of written demand by the Administrative Agent, forthwith pay, or cause to be paid, to the Administrative Agent for distribution to the Lenders in cash an amount equal the unpaid principal amount of such Obligation. The Company further agrees that if payment in respect of any Obligation shall be due in a currency other than Dollars and/or at a place of payment other than New York and if, by reason of any legal prohibition, disruption of currency or
 
foreign exchange markets, war or civil disturbance or other event, payment of such Obligation in such currency or at such place of payment shall be impossible or, in the reasonable judgment of any Lender, not consistent with the protection of its rights or interests, then, at the election of such Lender, the Company shall make payment of such Obligation in Dollars (based upon the applicable Spot Exchange Rate in effect on the date of payment) and/or in New York, and shall indemnify such Lender against any losses or expenses (including losses or expenses resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates) that it shall sustain as a result of such alternative payment.
Upon payment in full by the Company of any Obligation of Fortune Brands UK, each Lender shall, in a reasonable manner, assign to the Company the amount of such Obligation owed to such Lender and so paid, such assignment to be pro tanto to the extent to which the Obligation in question was discharged by the Company, or make such disposition thereof as the Company shall direct (all without recourse to any Lender and without any representation or warranty by any Lender). Upon payment by the Company of any sums as provided above, all rights of the Company against Fortune Brands UK arising as a result thereof by way of right of subrogation or otherwise shall in all respects be subordinated and junior in right of payment to the prior indefeasible payment in full of all the Obligations owed by Fortune Brands UK to the Lenders (it being understood that, after the discharge of all the Obligations due and payable from Fortune Brands UK, such rights may be exercised by the Company notwithstanding that Fortune Brands UK may remain contingently liable for indemnity or other Obligations).
SECTION 10.01. Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone, all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows:
Notices.
(a) if to the Company, to it at 520 Lake Cook Road, Deerfield, IL 60015, Attention of the Treasurer (Telecopy No. (847) 484-4491);
(b) if to Fortune Brands UK, to it in care of the Company as provided in paragraph (a) above;
(c) if to the Administrative Agent, to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., at Loan and Agency Services Group, 1111 Fannin, 10th Floor, Houston, Texas 77002, Attention of Sandra Choate (Telecopy No. (713) 750-2932), with a copy to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 270 Park Avenue, New York 10017, Attention of Pamela Lambiase (Telecopy No. (212) 270-0998) and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 1111 Fannin, 10th Floor, Houston, Texas 77002, Attention of Vaughan D. Nguyen (Telecopy No. (713) 750-2392);
 
(d) if to J.P. Morgan Europe Limited, to 9 Thomas More Street, London, United Kingdom, Trinity Tower, Attention of Steve Clarke (Telecopy No. 44-20-7777-2360); and
(e) if to any other Lender, to it at its address (or telecopy number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
Any party hereto may change its address or telecopy number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt.
SECTION 10.02. (a) No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or consent to any departure by either Borrower therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by of this Section, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time.
Waivers; Amendments.
paragraph (b)
(b) Neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Borrowers and the Required Lenders or by the Borrowers and the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders; that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Revolving Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, or change the Currency in which any of the foregoing is payable, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan, or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Revolving Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iv) change or  or the last sentence of in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments or the pro rata reduction of Revolving Commitments, respectively, required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender, (v) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender or (vi) release or limit the Company's obligations under Article IX without the written
provided
Section 2.16(b)
(c)
Section 2.07(c)
 
consent of each Lender; , that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any provision of this Agreement may be amended by an agreement in writing entered into by the Borrowers, the Required Lenders and the Administrative Agent if (i) by the terms of such agreement the Revolving Commitment of each Lender not consenting to the amendment provided for therein shall terminate upon the effectiveness of such amendment and (ii) at the time such amendment becomes effective, each Lender not consenting thereto receives payment in full of the principal of and interest accrued on each Loan made by it and all other amounts owing to it or accrued for its account under this Agreement. Anything contained in the foregoing to the contrary notwithstanding, the applicable Borrower and the applicable Lender with respect to a Negotiated Rate Loan may, from time to time, enter into amendments, supplements or modifications for the purpose of adding any provisions to such Negotiated Rate Loans or changing in any manner the rights of such Lender and such Borrower thereunder and such Lender may waive any of the requirements of such Negotiated Rate Loan; that such Borrower and such Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent in writing of any extensions of the maturity of such Negotiated Rate Loan or reduction of the principal amount thereof; , , that such Borrower and such Lender shall not extend the maturity of such Negotiated Rate Loan beyond the Termination Date.
provided
further
provided
provided
further
SECTION 10.03. (a) The Company shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including J.P. Morgan Europe Limited), including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent, in connection with the syndication of the credit facility provided for herein and the preparation and administration of this Agreement or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated) and (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent or any Lender (other than any Lender that defaults in its obligation to fund Loans hereunder, so long as such default is continuing), including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent or any Lender, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with this Agreement, including its rights under this Section, or in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including all such reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans; that the Company shall have no obligation to pay fees, charges or disbursements for more than (x) one firm of counsel acting for the Administrative Agent in each applicable jurisdiction and (y) one firm of counsel acting for the Lenders in each applicable jurisdiction.
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver.
provided
(b) The Company shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender (other than any Lender that defaults in its obligation to fund Loans hereunder, so long as such default is continuing), and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any
Indemnitee
 
counsel for any Indemnitee, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) any Loan or the use of the proceeds therefrom, (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by either Borrower or any Subsidiary, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to either Borrower or any Subsidiary, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or the violation of this Agreement by such Indemnitee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall have no obligation to pay fees, charges or disbursements for more than (x) one firm of counsel acting for the Administrative Agent and all of its Related Parties in each applicable jurisdiction and (y) one firm of counsel acting for the Lenders and all of their Related Parties in each applicable jurisdiction; that an Indemnitee shall have the right to employ additional counsel (including local counsel), and the Company shall bear the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of such additional counsel, if (1) the employment of counsel by such Indemnitee has been authorized in writing by the Company, (2) such Indemnitee has reasonably concluded (based upon advice of counsel to such Indemnitee) that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or in addition to those available to any other Indemnitee or (3) such Indemnitee has reasonably concluded (based upon advice of counsel to such Indemnitee) that a conflict or potential conflict exists between such Indemnitee and any other Indemnitee.
provided
provided
(c) To the extent that the Company fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent such Lender's pro rata share (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such. For purposes of this paragraph, a Lender's "pro rata share" of any amount shall be determined based on the percentage of the total Revolving Commitments represented by such Lender's Revolving Commitment or if the Revolving Commitments have terminated or expired, such percentage shall be determined based upon the Total Credit Exposure.
provided
(d) To the extent permitted by applicable law, neither of the Borrowers shall assert, and each Borrower hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any promissory note issued pursuant to this Agreement, the Transactions, any Loan, the use of the proceeds thereof.
 
(e) All amounts due under this shall be payable promptly after written demand therefor.
Section 10.03
SECTION 10.04. (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that no Borrower may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by either Borrower without such consent shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns.
(b) Any Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Revolving Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it); that (i) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender, the Company and the Administrative Agent must give their prior written consent to such assignment (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld); that no consent of the Company shall be required if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, (ii) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Revolving Commitment, the amount of the Revolving Commitment of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Acceptance with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Company and the Administrative Agent otherwise consent, (iii) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, except that this clause (iii) shall not apply to rights in respect of outstanding Competitive Loans or Negotiated Rate Loans, (iv) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Acceptance, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500 to the Administrative Agent, and (v) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire and all applicable tax forms; and that any consent of the Borrowers otherwise required under this paragraph shall not be required if an Event of Default under  or  of has occurred and is continuing. Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , , and
provided
provided
provided
further
clause (h)
(i)
Article VII
paragraph (d)
Sections 2.13
2.14
2.15
2.18
 
solely in respect of any period ended on or before the date of such assignment). Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this paragraph shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with  of this .
10.03
paragraph (e)
Section 10.04
(c) The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Borrowers, shall maintain at one of its offices in The City of New York a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Revolving Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrowers and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
(d) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Acceptance and record the information contained therein in the Register. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
(e) Any Lender may, without the consent of the Borrowers or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Revolving Commitment and the Loans owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to that affects such Participant. Subject to  of this , each Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to  of this .
Participant
provided
provided
Section 10.02(b)
paragraph (f)
Section 10.04
Sections 2.13
2.14
2.15
2.18
paragraph (b)
Section 10.04
 
(f) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under , or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with a Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Company is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrowers, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Section 2.13
2.15
2.18
Section 2.15
Section 2.15(e)
(g) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
provided
(h) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender (a "") may grant to a special purpose funding vehicle (a ""), identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Lender to the Administrative Agent and the Company, the option to provide to either Borrower all or any part of any Loan that such Granting Lender would otherwise be obligated to make to such Borrower pursuant to this Agreement; that (i) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment by any SPV to make any Loan and (ii) if an SPV elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to provide all or any part of such Loan, the Granting Lender shall be obligated to make such Loan pursuant to the terms hereof. The making of an Loan by an SPV hereunder shall utilize the Revolving Commitment of the Granting Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Loan were made by such Granting Lender. Each party hereto hereby agrees that no SPV shall be liable for any indemnity or similar payment obligation under this Agreement (all liability for which shall remain with the Granting Lender). In furtherance of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees (which agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement) that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding commercial paper or other senior indebtedness of any SPV, it will not institute against, or join any other Person in instituting against, such SPV any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceedings under the laws of the United States or any State thereof. In addition, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 10.04, any SPV may (i) with notice to, but without the prior written consent of, the applicable Borrower and the Administrative Agent and without paying any processing fee therefor, assign all or a portion of its interests in any Loans to the Granting Lender or to any financial institutions (consented to by the applicable Borrower and the Administrative Agent) providing liquidity or credit support to or for the account of such SPV to support the funding or maintenance of Loans and (ii) disclose on a confidential basis pursuant to a written confidentiality agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Company any non-public information relating to its Loans to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of any surety, guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancement to such SPV. This paragraph (h) may not be amended without the written consent of any SPV whose rights and obligations are affected thereby.
Granting Lender
SPV
provided
 
SECTION 10.05. All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Borrowers herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid and so long as the Revolving Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of , , , and and Article VIII shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Revolving Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
Survival.
Sections 2.13
2.14
2.15
2.18
10.03
SECTION 10.06. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement, any promissory notes issued pursuant to this Agreement and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Administrative Agent constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in Section 4.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness.
SECTION 10.07. Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability.
SECTION 10.08. If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other obligations at any time owing by such Lender to or for the credit or the account of either
Right of Setoff.
 
Borrower against any of and all the obligations of such Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have.
SECTION 10.09. (a) This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of New York.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process.
(b) Each Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York sitting in New York County and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement against either Borrower or its properties in the courts of any jurisdiction.
(c) Each Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in any court referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
(d) Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 10.01. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law. Fortune Brands UK hereby irrevocably appoints CT Corporation System (the ""), with an office on the date hereof at 111 Eighth Avenue, 13th floor, New York, New York 10011, United States, as its agent to receive on behalf of itself and its property service of copies of the summons and complaint and any other process which may be served in any such action or proceeding. Such service may be made by mailing or delivering a copy of such process to Fortune Brands UK in care of the Process Agent (or any successor thereto, as the case may be) at such Process Agent's above address (or the address of any successor thereto, as the case may be), and Fortune Brands UK hereby irrevocably authorizes and directs the Process Agent (and any successor thereto) to accept such service on its behalf. Fortune Brands UK shall appoint a successor agent for service of process should the agency of CT Corporation System
Process Agent
 
terminate for any reason, and further shall at all times maintain an agent for service of process in New York, New York, so long as there shall be outstanding any Obligations. Fortune Brands UK shall give notice to the Administrative Agent of any appointment of successor agents for service of process, and shall obtain from each successor agent a letter of acceptance of appointment and promptly deliver the same to the Administrative Agent. As an alternative method of service, Fortune Brands UK also irrevocably consents to the service of any and all process in any such action or proceeding by the mailing of copies of such process to it at its address specified in Section 10.01.
SECTION 10.10. EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL.
SECTION 10.11. Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
Headings.
SECTION 10.12. Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority, (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party to this Agreement, (e) to the extent necessary to prosecute or defend any claim, in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement, (g) with the consent of either Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (i) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (ii) becomes available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than either Borrower. For the purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from either Borrower relating to either Borrower or its business, other than any such
Confidentiality.
Information
 
information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by either Borrower; that, in the case of information received from either Borrower after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
provided
SECTION 10.13. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if at any time the interest rate applicable to any Loan, together with all fees, charges and other amounts which are treated as interest on such Loan under applicable law (collectively the ""), shall exceed the maximum lawful rate (the "") which may be contracted for, charged, taken, received or reserved by the Lender holding such Loan in accordance with applicable law, the rate of interest payable in respect of such Loan hereunder, together with all Charges payable in respect thereof, shall be limited to the Maximum Rate and, to the extent lawful, the interest and Charges that would have been payable in respect of such Loan but were not payable as a result of the operation of this Section shall be cumulated and the interest and Charges payable to such Lender in respect of other Loans or periods shall be increased (but not above the Maximum Rate therefor) until such cumulated amount, together with interest thereon at the Federal Funds Effective Rate to the date of repayment, shall have been received by such Lender.
Interest Rate Limitation.
Charges
Maximum Rate
SECTION 10.14. (a) If, for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum owing hereunder in one currency into another currency, each party hereto agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures in the relevant jurisdiction the first currency could be purchased with such other currency on the Business Day immediately preceding the day on which final judgment is given.
Judgment.
(b) The obligations of each Borrower in respect of any sum due to any party hereto or any holder of the obligations owing hereunder (the "") shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "") other than the currency in which such sum is stated to be due hereunder (the ""), be discharged only to the extent that, on the Business Day following receipt by the Applicable Creditor of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Applicable Creditor may in accordance with normal banking procedures in the relevant jurisdiction purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency; if the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Applicable Creditor in the Agreement Currency, such Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Applicable Creditor against such loss. The obligations of the Borrowers contained in this Section 10.14 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of all other amounts owing hereunder.
Applicable Creditor
Judgment Currency
Agreement Currency
 
SECTION 10.15. Each Lender hereby notifies each Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies such Borrower, which information includes the name and address of such Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender to identify such Borrower in accordance with the PATRIOT Act.
USA PATRIOT Act.
PATRIOT Act
SECTION 10.16. (a) Each Lender acknowledges that all information furnished to it pursuant to this Agreement from each Borrower or on its behalf and relating to such Borrower, its Subsidiaries or its or their respective businesses may include material non-public information concerning such Borrower and its Subsidiaries or its or their securities, and confirms that it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and that it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with the procedures and applicable law, including Federal and state securities laws.
Non-Public Information.
(b) All such information, including requests for waivers and amendments, furnished by each Borrower or the Administrative Agent pursuant to, or in the course of administering, this Agreement will be syndicate-level information, which may contain material non-public information about such Borrower and its Subsidiaries and its and their securities. Accordingly, each Lender represents to each Borrower and the Administrative Agent that it has identified in its Administrative Questionnaire a credit contact who may receive information that may contain material non-public information in accordance with its compliance procedures and applicable law, including Federal and state securities laws.
SECTION 10.17. Each Borrower agrees that in connection with all aspects of the transactions contemplated hereby and any communications in connection therewith, such Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and their Affiliates, on the other hand, will have a business relationship that does not create, by implication or otherwise, any fiduciary duty on the part of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders or their Affiliates, and no such duty will be deemed to have arisen in connection with any such transactions or communications.
No Fiduciary Duty.
SECTION 10.18. Each Lender that is a party to the Existing Credit Agreement hereby agrees that, without limiting the provisions of Section 10.05 thereof, the Existing Credit Agreement will be terminated with respect to such Lender simultaneously with the Effective Date and hereby waives the prior notice required for the termination of the commitments under the Existing Credit Agreement.
Waiver of Notice Period in connection with Termination of the Existing Credit Agreement.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
SIGNATURE PAGE TO
FORTUNE BRANDS, INC. AND
FORTUNE BRANDS FINANCE UK P.L.C.
364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
DATED AS OF OCTOBER 4, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


