FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20070427171801.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Pursuant to the Fortune Brands, Inc. ("Fortune Brands" or the "Company") retirement age policy, Mr. Gordon R. Lohman retired from the Board of Directors of Fortune Brands immediately following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on April 24, 2007.
 
(a) On April 24, 2007, the Board of Directors of Fortune Brands amended and restated Article VIII of the Company's By-laws. The amendment to the Company's By-laws allows for the issuance of uncertificated shares through a direct registration system. The Board of Directors adopted this amendment in order to comply with New York Stock Exchange rules which will require securities listed on the exchange to be eligible for a direct registration system by January 2008.
The amendment to the Company's By-laws became effective on April 24, 2007.
The foregoing description of the amendments to the Company's By-laws is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the By-laws, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 3.1(ii) and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(a) On April 24, 2007, the Board of Directors of Fortune Brands approved an amended Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the "Code"). The majority of the changes to the Code were administrative in nature; however, some revisions were made to reflect changes in the law, best practices, or our updated policies (e.g., sections about addressing Code violations, handling conflicts of interest, and making financial disclosures were enhanced; and sections on employee confidentiality, Company property, investor and media relations, records management, and compliance training obligations were added). The Code applies to the Company's principal executive officer, principal financial officer and principal accounting officer, as well as the Company's directors and employees. The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is filed as Exhibit 14.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
The following exhibits are filed as part of this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 27, 2007
 

Exhibit 3.1(ii)
Section 1. The number of directors constituting the entire Board of Directors of the Company, which shall be no fewer than seven and no greater than twenty, shall be determined by action of the Board of Directors adopted at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all directors then in office, provided notice of the proposed change in the number of directors shall be given in writing to each of the directors then in office. Any amendment to this Section 1 of these By-laws may be adopted at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the directors then in office.
Section 2. Each director shall hold office until his successor is elected and qualified or until his earlier resignation or removal. Any director of the Company may resign at any time upon written notice to the Company. Except as otherwise provided for, or fixed by, or pursuant to the provisions of Article IV of the Certificate of Incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of directors or any vacancy on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal or other cause shall be filled solely by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, or by a sole remaining director.
Section 3. In order to qualify to hold office as a director of the Company, a person must hold at least one share of stock of the Company.
Section 4. The directors may hold their meetings and have an office and keep the books of the Company in Deerfield, Illinois, or elsewhere outside of the State of Delaware.
Section 5. The Board of Directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board, may appoint from among its members an Executive Committee which shall have at least three members. To the extent provided in such resolution, such committee shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board, including the power to authorize the seal of the Company to be affixed to all papers that require it, except that such committee shall not have such power and authority in reference to
(1) amending the Certificate of Incorporation (except that such committee may, to the extent authorized in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issuance of shares of stock adopted by the Board of Directors as provided in Section 151(a) of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, fix the designations and any of the preferences or rights of such shares relating to dividends, redemption, dissolution, any distribution of assets of the Company or the conversion into, or the exchange of such shares for, shares of any other class or classes or any other series of the same or any other class or
classes of stock of the Company or fix the number of shares of any series of stock or authorize the increase or decrease of the shares of any series);
(2) adopting an agreement of merger or consolidation under Sections 251 or 252 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware;
(3) recommending to the stockholders any action that requires stockholders' approval;
(4) making, amending or repealing any By-law of the Company;
(5) electing or appointing any director, or removing any officer or director;
(6) amending or repealing any resolution theretofore adopted by the Board of Directors;
(7) fixing compensation of the directors for serving on the Board of Directors or on any committee; or
(8) unless the resolution shall expressly so provide, declaring a dividend, authorizing the issuance of stock or adopting a certificate of ownership and merger pursuant to Section 253 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
Actions taken at a meeting of such committee shall be reported to the Board of Directors at its next meeting following such committee meeting; except that, when the meeting of the Board is held within two days after the committee meeting, such report shall be made to the Board at either its first or second meeting following such committee meeting.
Section l. The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Company for the election of directors, and such other business as may properly come before the meeting, shall be held on the last Tuesday of the month of April at 1:30 p.m. in the afternoon, or such other day and hour as designated by the directors. If the day fixed for the meeting is a legal holiday, the meeting shall be held at the same hour on the next business day which is not a legal holiday.
Section 2. Special meetings of the stockholders, to be held at such place as may from time to time be designated by the directors, may be called only by the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Board of Directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board, for such purposes as shall be specified in the call.
Section 3. Except as otherwise provided by law, due notice of each annual meeting of the stockholders shall be given by a written or printed notice signed by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and mailed, postage prepaid, at least ten days prior to such meeting to each stockholder of record entitled to vote thereat appearing on the books of the Company at the address given thereon.
Due notice of each special meeting shall be given also in the manner above provided. The notice shall state the object of the special meeting, and no other business shall be transacted at such meeting.
Section 4. The holders of a majority in voting power of the outstanding shares of capital stock entitled to vote, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders. Except as otherwise required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation or these by-laws, the affirmative vote of shares representing a majority in voting power of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at a meeting at which a quorum is present and entitled to vote on the subject matter shall be the act of the stockholders.
In any election of directors at any meeting of the stockholders in which the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected (a "Contested Election"), the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the shares represented in person or by proxy at any such meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors. In any election by the stockholders of directors other than a Contested Election, each director shall be elected by a majority of the votes cast with respect to the director. A majority of votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a director must exceed 50% of the votes cast (including those "withheld") with respect to the director.
A director who is not elected at any meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors at which a quorum is present shall promptly tender his or her resignation following certification of the stockholder vote. Such resignation will be effective only upon the acceptance thereof by the Board of Directors.
The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall promptly consider the tendered resignation, and a range of possible responses based on the circumstances, if known, that led to the election results, and make a recommendation to the Board of Directors on whether to accept or reject the resignation, or whether any other action should be taken with respect thereto. The Board of Directors will act on any such recommendation by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee within 90 days following certification of the stockholder vote and will promptly publicly disclose its decision and the rationale behind it in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Any director who tenders his or her resignation pursuant to this provision shall not participate in the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee or Board of Directors recommendation or deliberations regarding whether to accept the resignation offer or take other action. If directors who have tendered resignations constitute a majority of the directors then in office, then, with respect to each tendered resignation, all directors, other than the director who tendered the particular resignation under consideration, may participate in the deliberations and action regarding whether to accept or reject the tendered resignation or to take other action with respect thereto.
The stockholders present at a duly convened meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
Section 5. Each meeting of the stockholders, whether annual or special, shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board if present, and if he is not present by the President if present. If neither officer specified in the preceding sentence is present, the meeting shall be presided over by the person designated in writing by the Chairman of the Board, or if the Chairman of the Board has made no designation, by the person designated by the President, or if the President has made no designation, by the person designated by the Board of Directors. If neither officer specified in the first sentence of this section is present, and no one designated by the Chairman of the Board or the President or the Board of Directors is present, the meeting may elect any stockholder of record who is entitled to vote for directors, or any person present holding a proxy for such a stockholder, to preside. The Secretary of the Company (or in his absence any Assistant Secretary) shall be the Secretary of any such meeting; in the absence of the Secretary and Assistant Secretaries, any person may be elected by the meeting to act as Secretary of the meeting.
Section 6. Any voting proxy given by a stockholder must be in writing, executed by the stockholder, or, in lieu thereof, to the extent permitted by law, may be transmitted in a telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic transmission setting forth or submitted with information from which it can be determined that the telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission was authorized by the stockholder. A copy, facsimile transmission or other reliable reproduction of a written or electronically-transmitted proxy authorized by this Section 6 may be substituted for or used in lieu of the original writing or electronic transmission to the extent permitted by law.
Section 7. Any previously scheduled annual or special meeting of stockholders may, by resolution of the Board of Directors, be postponed upon public announcement made prior to the date previously scheduled for such meeting of stockholders. For purposes of this Article II, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The person presiding over any meeting of stockholders, or a majority of the voting power of the shares entitled to vote, present in person or represented by proxy, even if less than a quorum, may adjourn the meeting from time to time. No notice of the time and place of adjourned meetings need be given except as required by law.
Section 8. The directors shall appoint one or more inspectors of election and of the vote at any time prior to the date of any meeting of stockholders at which an election is to be held or a vote is to be taken. In the event any inspector so appointed is absent from such meeting or for any other reason fails to act as such at the meeting, the person presiding pursuant to these By-laws may appoint a substitute who shall have all the powers and duties of such inspector. The inspector or inspectors so appointed shall act at such meeting, make such reports thereof and take such other action as shall be provided by law and as may be directed by the person presiding over the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his ability.
Section 9. The directors may, at any time prior to any annual or special meeting of the stockholders, adopt an order of business for such meeting which shall be the order of business to be followed at such meeting. The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at such meeting shall be announced at such meeting by the person presiding over such meeting.
Section l0. At any meeting of stockholders a stock vote shall be taken on any resolution or other matter presented to the meeting for action if so ordered by the person presiding over the meeting or on the demand of any stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting or any person present holding a proxy for such a stockholder. Such order or demand for a stock vote may be made either before or after a vote has been taken on such resolution or other matter in a manner other than by stock vote and before or after the result of the vote taken otherwise than by stock vote has been announced. The result of a stock vote taken in accordance with this By-law shall supersede the result of any vote previously taken in any manner other than by stock vote.
Section 11. (A) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Company may be made as provided in the Certificate of Incorporation. The proposal of other business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (1) pursuant to the Company's notice of meeting, (2) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (3) by any stockholder of the Company who was a stockholder of record at the time of giving of the notice provided for in this Section 11, who is entitled to vote thereon at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 11.
(B) For business (other than the nomination of persons for election to the Board of Directors) to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (3) of paragraph (A) of this Section 11, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Company. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary not later than one hundred twenty (120) days in advance of such meeting. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (1) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made and (2) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made (a) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Company's books, and of such beneficial owner and (b) the class and number of shares of the Company which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner.
(C) The person presiding over an annual meeting of stockholders shall have the power and duty to determine whether any business proposed by any stockholder to be brought before the meeting was made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 11 and, if any proposed business is not in compliance with this Section 11, to declare that such defective proposal shall be disregarded.
(D) In addition to the foregoing provisions of this Section 11, a stockholder shall comply with all applicable requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 11. Nothing in this Section 11 shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Company's proxy statement pursuant to Rule l4a-8 under such Act.
Section 1. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such places and on such dates and times as may from time to time be designated by the directors, the Chairman of the Board, or the President. Special meetings may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board or upon the request of any three directors.
Section 2. No notice need be given of regular meetings of the directors, except that at least one day's notice shall be given of any place other than the office of the Company in Deerfield, Illinois at which any such meeting is to be held, but such notice need not be given to any director who signs a written waiver of notice before or after the meeting. Attendance of a director at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the director attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
Section 3. A majority of the directors in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but in the absence of a quorum a majority of those present (or if only one is present, then that one) may adjourn the meeting without notice until such time as a quorum is present.
Section 4. Members of the Board of Directors or of any Committee thereof may participate in meetings of the Board of Directors or of such committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Section 5. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors or of such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or of such committee.
Section 1. The Board of Directors shall annually choose from amongst its members a Chairman of the Board. The Board shall also annually choose a Vice Chairman (if any), a President (if any), one or more Executive Vice Presidents (if any), one or
more Senior Vice Presidents (if any), a principal financial officer, a principal accounting officer, such other Vice Presidents (if any) as it shall determine, a Secretary, a Treasurer and a Controller (if any), who need not be directors.
Section 2. The Board of Directors may elect other officers and define their powers and duties.
Section 3. Any two offices not inconsistent with each other may be held by the same person.
Section 4. All officers elected by the Board of Directors shall hold office, subject to removal by the Board, until their successors are chosen and qualified. The affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all of the directors then in office shall be required to remove or reduce the salary of any officer elected by the Board of Directors.
Section 5. All agents and employees shall be appointed and may be removed by the Chairman of the Board, subject to the control of the Board of Directors.
Section 6. Vacancies among officers of the Company shall be filled as, and to the extent that, the Board of Directors shall determine by vote of a majority of the directors present at any regular or special meeting at which not less than a majority of all the directors then in office are present.
Section 7. The Chairman of the Board shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and shall have general direction of its business affairs, subject, however, to the control of the Board of Directors. He shall, if present, preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and shall perform such other duties and have such responsibilities as the Board may from time to time determine.
Section 8. The Vice Chairman (if any), the President (if any), the Executive Vice Presidents (if any), the Senior Vice Presidents (if any) and such other Vice Presidents as shall have been chosen shall have such powers and perform such duties as shall at any time be delegated to them by the Board of Directors. At the request of the Chairman of the Board, or in case of his absence or disability, the President (if any), or if there is no President such other elected officer designated by the Chairman of the Board in a writing filed with the records of the Secretary, shall perform the duties of the Chairman of the Board, subject to the control of the Board of Directors.
Section 9. The Secretary shall give the requisite notice of meetings of stockholders and directors and shall record the proceedings of such meetings, shall have the custody of the seal of the Company and shall affix it or cause it to be affixed to such instruments as require the seal and attest it and, besides his powers and duties prescribed by law, shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as shall at any time be required of him by the Board of Directors.
Section 10. The Assistant Secretaries shall assist the Secretary in the discharge of his duties and shall have such powers and perform such other duties as shall at any time be delegated to them by the Board of Directors, and in the absence or disability of the Secretary, shall perform the duties of his office, subject to the control of the Board.
Section 11. The Treasurer shall have charge of the funds and securities of the Company and shall have such powers and perform such duties as shall at any time be delegated to him by the Board of Directors.
Section 12. The Assistant Treasurers shall assist the Treasurer in the discharge of his duties and shall have such powers and perform such other duties as shall at any time be delegated to them by the Board of Directors, and in the absence or disability of the Treasurer, shall perform the duties of his office subject to the control of the Board.
Section 13. Any other officer, agent or employee of the Company may be required to give such security for the faithful performance of his duties as shall be determined by the Board of Directors, who shall also determine the custody of any security given.
Section 1. The salaries of all officers elected by the Board of Directors who hold offices of a rank of Vice President or above shall be fixed by the Compensation and Stock Option Committee.
Section 2. Salaries of all other officers elected by the Board and all other agents and employees shall be fixed by or in the manner determined by the Board.
Section 3. The Board of Directors, by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors in office and irrespective of any personal interest of any directors, shall have authority to establish reasonable compensation of directors for services to the Company as directors, officers or otherwise, except that the Compensation and Stock Option Committee, by the affirmative vote of a majority of Committee members in office and irrespective of any personal interest of any Committee members or other directors, shall have authority to establish such compensation of directors who also are officers elected by the Board and hold offices of a rank of Vice President or above.
Section 1. The Seal of the Company shall be in such form as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe and it may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner reproduced.
Section 1. All checks or bank drafts shall be signed by any two of the following named officers: Chairman of the Board, Vice Chairman, President, the principal financial officer, the principal accounting officer, any Vice President, Secretary, any Assistant Secretary, Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, Controller, any Assistant Controller; and in such other manner as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate.
Section 2. All notes or other obligations or contracts shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman, the President, the principal financial officer, the principal accounting officer, or any Vice President and also by one of the following officers: the Secretary, an Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, or an Assistant Controller (provided that no individual shall sign the instrument in two capacities), or shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman, the President, the principal financial officer, the principal accounting officer, or any Vice President, with the corporate seal or a facsimile thereof affixed thereto or imprinted thereon, attested by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary; or such notes, obligations or contracts shall be signed in such manner and by one or more of such officers or other persons on behalf of the Company as the Board of Directors may from time to time authorize or direct. When and as authorized or directed by the Board of Directors, the signatures of such officers or other persons or any of them signing on behalf of the Company may be facsimiles.
Section 1. Shares of the capital stock of the Company may, but shall not be required to, be issued in certificated form. If such stock is certificated, the certificates shall be duly numbered and registered in the order of their issue, and shall be in the form the directors shall prescribe. Except as otherwise provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated shares and the rights and obligations of holders of certificates representing shares of stock of the same class and same series shall be identical.
Section 2. The capital stock held of record shall be transferable only on the transfer books of the Company, subject to these By-laws, by the owner in person, or by attorney or legal representative, written evidence of whose authority shall be filed with the Company. No transfer of shares of capital stock shall be valid until such transfer has been entered on the books of the Company by an entry showing from and to whom transferred and, (i) if the stock is certificated, the transfer shall not be valid until the surrender of the certificate, duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignation or transfer, and cancellation of the certificate representing the same or (ii) if the stock is uncertificated, the transfer shall not be valid unless accompanied by a duly executed stock transfer power or other proper transfer instructions from the registered owner of such uncertificated shares.
Section 3. The Board of Directors may at any time, in its discretion, appoint one or more transfer agents or registrars of the shares of stock of the Company and terminate the appointment of any transfer agent or registrar. The Board of Directors may designate the Company to perform such functions alone or in conjunction with one or more other transfer agents or registrars. The Board of Directors may also make such additional rules and regulations as it may deem expedient concerning the issue, transfer and registration of shares of stock of the Company and concerning the registration of pledges of uncertificated shares.
Section 4. (A) For the purpose of determining the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or for the purpose of determining stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or allotment of any right, or for the purpose of any other action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a date as the record date for any such determination of stockholders. Such date shall be not more than 60 nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting, nor more than 60 days prior to any other action.
(B) When a determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders has been made as provided in this Section 4, such determination shall apply to any adjournment thereof, unless the Board of Directors fixes a new record date under this Section 4 for the adjourned meeting.
Section 1. The Board of Directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board, shall appoint a Committee on Conflicts of Interests which shall have at least three members. To the extent provided by resolution of the Board, such committee shall have the power to interpret, administer and apply the policies of the Company as established by the Board from time to time with respect to conflicts of interests.
Section 1. Dividends on the Preferred Stock and the Common Stock of the Company may be declared by the Board of Directors, at any regular or special meeting, as provided by law and the Certificate of Incorporation.
Section 1. The Board of Directors shall, except as otherwise provided in these By-laws or the Certificate of Incorporation, have the power to alter, amend or repeal these By-laws at any meeting by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the directors then in office, provided notice of the proposed alteration, amendment or repeal be given in writing to each of the directors, and provided also that no alteration, amendment or repeal of a specification in any section of these By-laws of a stated fraction of directors as the minimum number whose presence or vote is requisite for action under such section may be made without the presence or vote or both, as the case may be, of the minimum number so specified.
Section 1. (A) Each person (an "indemnitee") who was or is made or threatened to be made a party to or was or is involved (as a witness or otherwise) in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative was or is a director, officer or employee of the Company or was or is serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, whether the basis of such proceeding was or is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company to the fullest extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Company to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Company to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees and retainers therefor, judgments, fines, excise taxes or penalties under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and amounts paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that except as provided in Section 3 of this Article XIII with respect to proceedings seeking to enforce rights to indemnification, the Company shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Company.
(B) The right to indemnification conferred in this Article XIII is and shall be a contract right. The right to indemnification conferred in this Article XIII shall include the right to be paid by the Company the expenses (including attorneys' fees and retainers therefor) reasonably incurred in connection with any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition, such advances to be paid by the Company within 20 days after the receipt by the Company of a statement or statements from the indemnitee requesting such advance or advances from time to time; provided, however, that if the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Company of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Article XIII or otherwise.
Section 2. (A) To obtain indemnification under this Article XIII, an indemnitee shall submit to the Company a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the indemnitee and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the indemnitee is entitled to indemnification. Upon written request by an indemnitee for indemnification pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 2(A), a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to the indemnitee's entitlement thereto shall be made as follows: (1) if requested by the indemnitee, by Independent Counsel (as hereinafter defined), or (2) if no request is made by the indemnitee for a determination by Independent Counsel, (a) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined), or (b) if a quorum of the Board of Directors consisting of Disinterested Directors is not obtainable or, even if obtainable, such quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board of Directors, a copy of which shall be delivered to the indemnitee, or (c) by the stockholders of the Company. In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel at the request of the indemnitee, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the indemnitee unless the indemnitee shall request that such selection be made by the Board of Directors, in which event the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the Board of Directors. If it is so determined that the indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, payment to the indemnitee shall be made within 10 days after such determination.
(B) In making a determination with respect to entitlement to indemnification hereunder, the person, persons or entity making such determination shall presume that the indemnitee is entitled to indemnification under this Article XIII, and the Company shall have the burden of proof to overcome that presumption in connection with the making by any person, persons or entity of any determination contrary to that presumption.
Section 3. (A) If a claim under Section 1 of this Article XIII is not paid in full by the Company within 30 days after a written claim pursuant to Section 2(A) of this Article XIII has been received by the Company, or if an advance is not made within 20 days after a request therefor pursuant to Section 1(B) of this Article XIII has been received by the Company, the indemnitee may at any time thereafter bring suit (or, at the indemnitee's option, an arbitration proceeding before a single arbitrator pursuant to the rules of the American Arbitration Association) against the Company to recover the unpaid amount of the claim or the advance and, if
successful in whole or in part, the indemnitee shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such suit or proceeding (other than a suit or proceeding brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in connection with any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the Company) that the indemnitee has not met the standards of conduct which make it permissible under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware for the Company to indemnify the indemnitee for the amount claimed or that such indemnification otherwise is not permitted under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Company.
(B) Neither the failure of the Company (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the indemnitee is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, nor an actual determination by the Company (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) that the indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
(C) If a determination shall have been made pursuant to Section 2(A) of this Article XIII that the indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Company shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to paragraph (A) of this Section 3.
(D) The Company shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to paragraph (A) of this Section 3 that the procedures and presumptions of this Article XIII are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in any such court or before any such arbitrator that the Company is bound by all the provisions of this Article XIII.
Section 4. The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in connection with a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this Article XIII shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, By-laws, agreement, vote of stockholders or Disinterested Directors or otherwise.
Section 5. The Company may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Company or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. To the extent that the Company maintains any policy or policies providing such insurance, each such director, officer or employee, and each such agent to which rights to indemnification have been granted as provided in Section 6 of this Article XIII, shall be covered by such policy or policies in accordance with its or their terms to the maximum extent of the coverage thereunder for any such director, officer, employee or agent.
Section 6. The Company may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the Company the expenses incurred in connection with any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any agent of the Company to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Article XIII with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors, officers and employees of the Company.
Section 7. If any provision or provisions of this Article XIII shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (A) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Article XIII (including without limitation, each portion of any Section of this Article XIII containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (B) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Article XIII (including, without limitation, each portion of any Section of this Article XIII containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
Section 8. For purposes of this Article XIII:
(A) "Disinterested Director" means a director of the Company who is not and was not a party to the matter in respect of which indemnification is sought by the indemnitee.
(B) "Independent Counsel" means a law firm, or a member of a law firm, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and neither presently is, nor in the past five years has been, retained to represent: (1) the Company or the indemnitee in any matter material to either such party, or (2) any other party to the matter giving rise to a claim for indemnification. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Independent Counsel" shall not include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Company or the indemnitee in an action to determine the indemnitee's rights under this Article XIII.
Section 9. Any notice, request or other communication required or permitted to be given to the Company under this Article XIII shall be in writing and either delivered in person or sent by telecopy, telex, telegram or certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Secretary of the Company and shall be effective only upon receipt by the Secretary.

Exhibit 14.1
May 2007
May 1, 2007
Dear Fellow Employees:
Fortune Brands is a diverse and global company united by leading consumer brands and people with a passion to win. Importantly, we are also united by common values and consistent standards of business conduct. Integrity is our most valuable business asset, and our commitment to the highest ethical standards guides us in everything we do, everywhere we operate.
Due to the diverse nature of our business  both operationally and geographically  it's important that we have a common framework to ensure that our conduct is always aligned with our values. That's why we all operate under the Fortune Brands Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
The Code applies to every employee of Fortune Brands, at every level and in every location. I ask you to read the Code carefully and ensure that you fully understand it. The document contains answers to questions you may have, guidance for resolving issues that may arise and instructions for confidentially reporting any suspected violations of the Code. Amidst the thousands of decisions we collectively make every day, adherence to the Code of Conduct will ensure that we always make the correct choices.
Thank you for your continued commitment to Fortune Brands and the high ethical standards that guide us. Your dedication has made Fortune Brands a highly successful and admired company, and by living up to our Code of Conduct and Business Ethics, we'll continue to earn the trust of our stakeholders.
Warmest regards,
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Our Commitment to the Code:
Ethical Conduct at Fortune Brands
Fortune Brands is committed to core values that include integrity, leadership, teamwork and accountability. Our company has worked hard to earn an excellent reputation and record for doing what's right. It has always been important to focus on the highest legal and ethical standards in everything we do, from employment decisions to environmental practices. This Code gives you an introduction to the laws, policies and rules that everyone working at Fortune Brands must follow. We are all expected to understand that:
 
 
 
The Code doesn't describe in detail every law and policy that may apply to you, though it summarizes many of them. Throughout the Code, the blue triangle directs you to additional resources for assistance or more information on Code topics. The Code is available on-line at
www.fortunebrands.com
In the Code, you'll find examples of complex situations that you might face in making business decisions along with guidance on how to handle that kind of situation. No matter what, you can always contact your manager, the Legal Department, the Human Resources Department, the Compliance Committee or the Ethics hotlines for help.
 
Our Commitment to the Code:
Speaking Up and Resolving Issues
Fortune Brands can only respond to problems that it knows about. It is up to all of us to understand the legal and ethical responsibilities of our jobs and then speak up if we believe someone has violated our standards. We are obligated to seek out guidance when we are involved in, or might become involved in, a situation that is not clear. We must report wrong-doing and ethical misconduct. Doing what is right means:
 
 
 
1-800-338-2803
This number is for general compliance reporting in the U.S. (1-847-484-4402 from outside the U.S.)
1-800-374-6129
This number is dedicated exclusively to receiving reports or concerns regarding questionable accounting, auditing or fraud related matters affecting the company and is available domestically and internationally.
Someone calls into the hotline to report very serious violations of our policy against sexual harassment. Later, it turns out that the caller made his allegations because he wanted to cause trouble for a co-worker whom he dislikes, and the claims were untrue.
Although the Code is clear that there can be no retaliation against someone who reports a violation in good faith, this employee has acted in bad faith and could face discipline, even termination of his employment.
 
Our Commitment to the Code:
Fortune Brands Compliance Program
The Code is developed and updated by Fortune Brands Compliance Committee, which also administers our compliance program. The Compliance Committee meets periodically to review the company's compliance efforts, and it reports at least yearly to the Board of Directors' Audit Committee. It is responsible for:
 
 
 
 
The company's senior leadership works with and supports the Compliance Committee to prevent and detect unethical conduct. Terms of the Code can only be waived for executive officers or directors by Fortune Brands' Board of Directors or the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
The members of the Compliance Committee may change from time to time, and are currently Mark Roche, Mark Hausberg, Gary Tobison, Ed Wiertel, Rachel Flynn and Rosalyn Wesley. More information about the Committee is at the back of the Code.
 
Our Workplace: Respect for Others
Fortune Brands is committed to fostering a workplace that is professional and respectful. Diversity is a necessary and strategic goal for our business. The company promotes an atmosphere of trust and respect, and encourages a work environment where employees are treated fairly and given opportunities to contribute to Fortune Brands' success. This means:
 
 
 
Fortune Brands' Corporate Policies and Procedures contains a Harassment and Non-Discrimination Policy that describes the rules and obligations in more detail.
A co-worker tells you that her supervisor continually mocks her religious beliefs, and has recently sent her an email (which she forwarded to you) with stereotypical and offensive cartoons poking fun at her faith. She is very upset at this behavior, but has insisted to you that she doesn't want to take action or "rock the boat." She says she's only telling you about this problem "as a friend."
You have an obligation under the Code to encourage your co-worker to report this issue and to make clear that if she does not bring the conduct to the attention of another supervisor, Human Resources or Legal Department, the hotline, or the Compliance Committee, you will be compelled to report it yourself.
 
Our Workplace: Health and Safety
Fortune Brands is committed to maintaining a safe, secure and healthy work environment. Its policies and practices prohibit possession, sale or use of illegal drugs (or abuse of prescription drugs) in or around the company's offices. Anyone suffering from substance abuse problems is urged to contact the company's Employee Assistance Program for help. Violence or intimidating behavior will not be tolerated in our offices or at a company-sponsored event. Weapons are not permitted in or on Fortune Brands' premises.
Employees seeking guidance and assistance with substance abuse or other personal concerns should call ComPsych, the Fortune Brands Employee Assistance Program at Fortune Brands' Corporate Policies and Procedures contains a Substance Abuse Policy and a Workplace Violence Policy that describe the rules and obligations in more detail.
1-800-272-7255.
During deer hunting season, I like to meet friends in Wisconsin to hunt over the weekends. On Fridays, I bring my gear, including an unloaded gun, separately stored ammunition, and various knives, to work in my truck. I lock my truck, and no one else has access to it. Is this okay?
No. These items are prohibited by Fortune Brands' policy, and must not be brought on the premises, no matter how securely they are stored.
 
Our Workplace: Employee Confidentiality
Fortune Brands collects personal information about employees to provide compensation and benefits and to keep other necessary employment records. The company respects its employees' confidentiality, and access to this information is restricted to authorized people who need to administer employee programs. Those who have access are required to strictly comply with access and privacy rules.
Although our company has high regard for employees' privacy, that doesn't mean that all information and material created or brought to work will remain private. Email and Internet use, in particular, are monitored for appropriate content, and you should not expect privacy in those communications.
Fortune Brands' Corporate Policies and Procedures contains an Electronic Mail & Internet Usage Policy. This policy, and the Code on page 15 provide more detail about computer use at the company. There are many laws and regulations that impact employee information and records, including federal privacy rules. If you have questions or concerns, you should contact the Legal Department.
I recently received another employee's explanation of benefits from our insurance company which contained information about recent medical services he received. What should I do with this information?
You should contact someone in Human Resources immediately so that they can address and resolve the situation. Of course, you should not disclose to anyone else the other employee's medical information.
 
Our Business: Fair Competition
Fortune Brands prides itself on leading the marketplace by innovating, performing at the highest levels, and competing vigorously. It is critical to our business and our reputation that we compete fairly. This means:
 
 
I receive a fax from my counterpart at Masco that contains all of Masco's projected financials. The fax coversheet had my name on it, so I guess it was meant to be sent to me, right?
Most likely not. Common sense says this fax was sent in error, and that the information is highly confidential to the sender. Using it would be unfair and improper. Don't share, copy or discuss the fax until you've talked with the Legal Department.
 
Our Business: Prohibited Transactions
As a global company, Fortune Brands expects and requires that its employees, officers and directors comply with national and multinational export and import control laws. In particular:
 
 
The Legal Department distributes our policy on trade restrictions annually, with updates as necessary. Contact the Legal Department for a copy or to discuss prohibited transactions.
One of our operating companies receives a purchase order for a new customer in Haiti. The customer contact says things that suggest the Haitian company is a wholly owned distributor for a Cuban company, and all product will be shipped immediately from Haiti to Cuba. Is this a problem?
Yes. We are currently restricted from doing business with Cuba, whether directly or indirectly. We have an obligation to understand the nature of the Haitian business.
 
Our Business: Prohibited Payments
It is impermissible under federal and international law, as well as Fortune Brands' ethical standards, to make improper payments of any kind, including bribes or kickbacks. We must not bribe foreign government officials in order to obtain business or favorable governmental action. Barred payments include cash or lavish gifts as well as indirect payments made through third parties and meant to influence an official. Certain transactions are also prohibited, including "split invoicing" or "other invoicing" to reduce taxes or custom duties. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act also requires accurate book and recordkeeping so that all payments are properly recorded.
No Fortune Brands employee, officer or director should give of value to a foreign government official other than paying for reasonable travel and entertainment expenses. These costs should never exceed modest amounts within the bounds of good taste and business ethics expected for domestic situations, and they should be properly recorded in expense reports and financial accounts. If anyone suspects that a Fortune Brands employee, officer, director or affiliate is making improper payments, he or she must immediately report the conduct. If you encounter a situation where you are asked to make payments other than amounts for legitimate business expenses, you must discuss the situation with your manager, who should consult the Legal Department.
anything
The company's policy on the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Anti-Bribery Convention is updated and distributed annually. Contact the Legal Department if you would like a copy or if you have questions about prohibited payments.
In order to get the business permit for an additional power generator at one of our Chinese production facilities, we are being asked to pay a fee to the government-owned power company. If we don't pay, we are told that the permit may take two years to get approved. What should we do?
Talk to the Legal Department. In certain, very specific instances, payments called "facilitating payments" are permitted as normal and expected costs of doing business. However, whether this payment is legal depends on the amount of the fee and other factors concerning the permit process. You must not make this payment without assessment and approval from your business leaders and the Legal Department.
 
Our Business: Conflicts of Interest
Fortune Brands expects us to make objective business decisions that are not influenced by our own personal, social, financial or political interests. Even the of a conflict of interest by any of us might impair Fortune Brands' reputation and diminish our strength in the marketplace. It is critical that we base our business choices on merit and fairness, and that we avoid actual or potential conflicts of interest. When in doubt about a possible conflict of interest, it is always best to disclose and discuss the situation with your manager. Any employee, officer or director who becomes aware of a conflict or potential conflict must disclose it.
appearance
A conflict, or the appearance of a conflict, may exist where:
 
 
 
 
 
The Conflicts of Interest Policy is available in the Legal Department.
I already own stock in a company that has recently become one of our suppliers. Do I need to sell this stock?
Disclose this information to your manager. If you work in a purchasing function, you may need to divest yourself from financial interest in the supplier. If you don't work in a position that affects purchasing decisions, you may not need to sell your shares. In any event, it is important that you disclose and discuss this information with your manager who will work with Fortune Brands' Conflicts of Interest Committee to determine next steps.
 
Our Information and Resources:
Financial Accuracy and Disclosure
We adhere to strict standards in the keeping of our financial records and accounts. Our books must accurately and fairly reflect all transactions properly, and present facts honestly and in a straight-forward, transparent way.
We will ensure that the disclosures we make to the Securities and Exchange Commission and in other public communications are full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable.
All employees must:
 
 
 
 
 
Any employee, officer, or director who falsifies or conceals information, or undermines our financial controls may be disciplined, including termination of employment, and may face legal action.
Fortune Brands' CEO and Senior Financial Officers must comply with an additional Code of Ethics concerning financial reporting, disclosures, conflicts of interest and accurate accounting. A copy of the Code of Ethics for the CEO and Senior Financial Officers may be found on the Company's website at at the Investor Relations/Corporate Governance section.
www.fortunebrands.com
You must report any concerns or complaints about questionable accounting or auditing practices by raising issues with the Controller's or Audit Departments. If you still have concerns, you should call the financial reporting hotline at 1-800-374-6129 or contact a member of Fortune Brands' Audit Committee.
It is the last week in the annual reporting period. My manager wants me to hold back on submitting expense reports until next quarter. Should I do what she says?
No. All revenues and costs must be recorded in the correct time periods. The expenses must be reflected on our books this quarter.
 
Our Information and Resources: Insider Trading
Fortune Brands complies with the laws that prohibit insider-trading  using material undisclosed information to make decisions about buying and selling securities.
"Material information" is information about a company that, if it were publicly known, would affect the market value of the company's stock or influence investor decisions about that stock.
Anyone with non-public, material information about Fortune Brands or any other company must not purchase, sell or give recommendations ("tips") to others to purchase or sell shares in that company. Insider trading is illegal, and it violates the Code.
Many of us work every day with information about Fortune Brands, its operating companies and outside companies that is considered material, including information about acquisitions and divestitures, changes in senior management, major new projects or products, unexpected changes in financial conditions, and significant litigation. If you have material information:
 
 
Contact the Legal Department to discuss insider trading questions and concerns.
I know that next week Fortune Brands will announce an acquisition that adds considerably to our Home and Hardware business. It's all been very hush-hush so far, but I helped review some of the due diligence materials. I was going to re-allocate some of my retirement savings into Fortune Brands stock anyway, can I still do it tomorrow?
No. You have inside information, and purchasing Fortune Brands stock through your 401K, through exercising stock options, or in any other way is illegal at this time. You need to consult with the Legal Department for authorization to trade.
 
Our Information and Resources: Company Property
Fortune Brands requires all of us to protect and to use company property appropriately. We are not permitted to take for our personal use (or to give or loan to others) any company-owned materials or items without consent from our managers.
The company's computer technology is to be used for legitimate business purposes, and security must be protected at all times. Keep in mind that:
 
 
 
 
Please refer to Fortune Brands' Electronic Mail & Internet Usage Policy in the Corporate Policies and Procedures Handbook.
I lead my son's scout troop, and need to photocopy a lot and call or email other parents. I need to do this at work most of the time. Also, for our annual fundraiser, I'd like to use Fortune Brands' popcorn machine and give away goodie bags with backpack locks, Footjoy socks and Fortune Brands' water bottles. Does the company allow this?
The Code does not permit excessive personal use of Fortune Brands' electronic technology. Also, Fortune Brands expects that when you are at work, you're devoting your time and attention to Fortune Brands business. Discuss whether your day-to-day scouting work is appropriate with your manager. If it decreases your productivity and regularly distracts you from your tasks, the amount of time you spend doing scouting work is probably too much under the Code. You may only use Fortune Brands' equipment and give away its products with consent from the Contributions Committee.
 
Our Information and Resources: Investor and Media Relations
Fortune Brands provides information to investors, analysts, shareholders and the media in an accurate, timely and professional manner. It is critical that the information we share is reliable and consistent. We do not discuss many matters, including acquisitions, divestitures, employment issues, and lawsuits until the appropriate time, and then only Fortune Brands' designated spokespeople should provide information. Serious civil and criminal penalties can be associated with making false, fraudulent or misleading statements to the government and others.
If you're contacted by a member of the press, the investment community or by anyone else seeking information or opinions about Fortune Brands, you must notify our Corporate Affairs Department and let them respond.
To protect the integrity of company information:
 
 
If you are approached by the media to comment on any Fortune Brands matter, contact Clarkson Hine, V.P. Corporate Communications  Public Affairs, 847-484-4415. If you are approached by an investor or analyst to comment on any Fortune Brands matter, contact Tony Diaz, V.P. Investor Relations, 847-484-4410.
A local newspaper reporter calls me and asks me questions about Fortune Brands for an upcoming article.
Transfer the telephone call to the Corporate Affairs Department. Do not provide any information to the reporter.
 
Our Information and Resources: Records Management
Fortune Brands manages its records and documents accurately and legally. Many documents must be kept or disposed of according to legal requirements. In light of pending litigation, documents (both hard copy and electronic) must often be "held" and not altered, deleted or destroyed. We all must comply with our Records Retention Policy and with any other information retention instructions we receive.
Our Records Retention Manual is available in the Legal Department and in the Public Folders of Outlook under the category Fortune Brands, Record Retention, Retention Manual
I often do work on my home computer so I have many old drafts of company documents saved there. The company does not own my home computer, so do I really have to delete old documents on my home computer?
Even though the company does not own your computer, our retention policy expressly covers company documents you create on your home computer, and requires you to treat those documents the same way you are required to treat documents on your work computer.
Corporate Citizenship: Environmental Concerns
Fortune Brands conducts its business with protection of the environment as one of our highest responsibilities. We are all expected to comply with the letter and spirit of all environmental protection laws. Our goal is to continuously reduce the impact of our operations and products on the environment. The principles under which we operate are set forth in our Statement of Environmental Stewardship.
Fortune Brands' Statement of Environmental Stewardship is available on the company's website () at the Corporate Responsibility section.
www.fortunebrands.com
 
Corporate Citizenship: Global Concerns
Fortune Brands is a global company, and its aim is to develop and foster international business relationships built on respect and responsibility. The principles under which we operate are set forth in our Global Citizenship Policy. The company is committed to complying with national and local laws of the countries in which we do business, and having our suppliers comply also. In addition, some requirements of the Global Citizenship Policy may be more stringent than local law or customs, and in that event, we must comply with our rules. For example:
 
 
 
 
Fortune Brands' ethical requirements for doing business are contained in the Fortune Brands Global Citizenship Policy, which is available on the company's website at () at the Corporate Responsibility section.
www.fortunebrands.com
I became aware of substandard working conditions or environmental practices at a supplier to one of our operating companies. Am I supposed to tell any one about this?
Suppliers must comply with our Global Citizenship Policy. Notify the head of purchasing of the operating company and Adam Meister (ext. 4449) for investigation and corrective action.
 
Training and Certification
Fortune Brands relies on each of us to read and understand the Code and to take our commitment to ethical standards very seriously. You will periodically receive training on the Code. After you complete the training, you will be asked to certify that:
 
 
 
 
Compliance Reporting Summary
We all must comply with the law and the terms and spirit of this Code. When in doubt about any compliance or ethics issue, please contact your manager, the Legal Department, the Human Resources Department, or any of the following individuals:
Corporate Compliance Committee Members:
Mark Roche, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
847-484-4440
Mark Hausberg, Senior Vice President and Treasurer
847-484-4510
Gary Tobison, Vice President and Chief Internal Auditor, Secretary
847-484-4470
Ed Wiertel, Vice President and Corporate Controller
847-484-4540
Rachel Flynn, Senior Counsel, Assistant Secretary
847-484-4444
Rosalyn Wesley, Corporate Director, Human Resources
847-484-4433
Compliance Hotlines
This number is for general compliance reporting.
1-800-338-2803
(1-847-484-4402 from outside the U.S.)
 
These lines may be accessed anonymously on a 24-hour basis.
The Code does not change the terms and conditions of your employment. Instead, it describes the ethical conduct Fortune Brands expects of all of us.
 


