FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20071205163154.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On December 4, 2007, Fortune Brands, Inc. issued a press release announcing the election of Ann Fritz Hackett to Fortune Brands' Board of Directors. Mrs. Hackett was elected as a Class II member of the Board of Directors and her term of office will expire at the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders. There is no arrangement or understanding between Mrs. Hackett and any other persons pursuant to which she was elected as a director. Mrs. Hackett was also appointed as a member of Fortune Brands' Compensation and Stock Option and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees.
Mrs. Hackett was granted 687 shares of the Company's common stock under the 2005 Non-Employee Director Stock Plan. This grant was made to reflect her partial year of service from the date of her election until the next anticipated annual stock grant made to all directors.
The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d)
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 5, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Fortune Brands, Inc., 520 Lake Cook Road, Deerfield, IL 60015
 
Deerfield, IL, December 4, 2007  Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO), the company behind leading consumer brands such as Jim Beam, Titleist and Moen, today announced that Ann Fritz Hackett has been elected to its board of directors.
Ms. Hackett is president of Horizon Consulting Group, a firm that provides business strategy, organizational and human resources advice to global companies.
"We are delighted to welcome Ann to the board of Fortune Brands," said chairman and chief executive officer Norm Wesley. "With her extensive consulting background across a diverse spectrum of industries, Ann will bring valuable experience and insights to the work of our board."
Prior to founding Horizon Consulting Group in 1990, Ms. Hackett spent 11 years at Strategic Planning Associates, Inc., where she was a vice president and partner. Ms. Hackett also serves on the board of Capital One Financial Corporation, and has previously served on the board of Woodhead Industries, Inc. and as a trustee of Dartmouth College. She graduated summa cum laude from Dartmouth and earned her MBA with distinction from Stanford.
Ms. Hackett's election temporarily increases the size of the board to 11 members. As previously announced, Eugene Renna plans to retire from the board effective December 31, 2007.
About Fortune Brands
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a leading consumer brands company with annual sales exceeding $8 billion. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in spirits and wine, home and hardware products, and golf equipment. Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. is the company's spirits and wine business. Major spirits brands include Jim Beam and Maker's Mark bourbons,
Fortune Brands Elects Ann Fritz Hackett to Board of Directors, Page 2
Sauza tequila, Canadian Club whisky, Courvoisier cognac, DeKuyper cordials, Starbucks liqueurs and Laphroaig single malt Scotch. Home and hardware brands include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Omega, Diamond and Kitchen Craft cabinetry, Therma-Tru door systems, Simonton windows, Master Lock padlocks and Waterloo tool storage sold by units of Fortune Brands Home & Hardware LLC. Acushnet Company's golf brands include Titleist, Cobra and FootJoy. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index, the MSCI World Index and the Ocean Tomo 300 Patent Index.
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit www.fortunebrands.com.


