FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20070806163109.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prior to January 1, 2008, the Supplemental Plan also provides Messrs. Wesley, Omtvedt, Roche and Hausberg with an annual benefit equal to 52% of average compensation during the five highest-paid consecutive years of employment. This retirement benefit is reduced by 1% of such average compensation for each year that the officer retires prior to age 65 unless he or she has completed 35 years of service, and is further reduced by benefits payable under the Fortune Brands Pension Plan, any defined benefit pension plan of an affiliated company, and defined benefit plans of unrelated prior employers. Effective for years of service beginning on and after January 1, 2008, these executives will accrue a benefit based on the same formula applicable to all employees in the tax qualified retirement plan (1% of average compensation for each year of service).
The summary of the Supplemental Plan above is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Supplemental Plan attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
 
The following is filed as an exhibit to this report pursuant to Item 5.02.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 6, 2007
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Section 1. Purpose
The Fortune Brands, Inc. Supplemental Plan (the "Plan") is maintained to induce employees of outstanding ability to join or continue in the employ of the Company and to increase their efforts for its welfare by providing them with supplemental benefits that cannot be provided by the Company's tax-qualified defined benefit and defined contribution plans as a result of Internal Revenue Code limitations. The Plan is hereby amended and restated as set forth herein, effective January 1, 2008.
The provisions of the Plan as set forth herein shall apply to eligible employees in the employ of the Company on and after January 1, 2008, and Section 409A of the Code shall apply to all Plan benefits payable to or on behalf of such employees, including benefits earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005. The rights of an employee who terminated employment with the Company and all Related Companies before 2008 shall be determined under the terms of the Plan as in effect on the date of the employee's termination of employment; provided that, benefits that may be become payable to or on behalf of such an employee who terminated employment with the Company on or after January 1, 2005 shall be provided in a manner that is consistent with Section 409A of the Code and applicable Plan provisions set forth herein.
Section 2. Definitions
As used in this Plan, the following words shall have the following meanings:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 3. Supplemental Retirement Benefits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of calculating the benefits under this Section 3(c), the Executive Participant's Benefit Service in excess of 35 years shall be disregarded, and the benefit shall not be limited by the 401(a)(17) Limitations and the 415 Limitations. The benefits provided by this Section 3(c) shall be forfeitable if the Participant's Retirement Plan benefit is forfeitable.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except as provided in Section 3(h) and Section 7, payment of a pre-retirement spouse's benefit under this Section 3(g) shall be made to the Surviving Spouse in the form of a life annuity, commencing on the first day of the month following the employee's death or the first day of the month following the date the employee would have attained age 55, if later.
 
 
 
Section 4. Supplemental Profit-Sharing Benefits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5. Funding
Except as provided in Section 7, benefits under this Plan shall not be funded in order that the Plan may be exempt from the provisions of Parts 2, 3 and 4 of Title I of ERISA. The Committee shall maintain records of supplemental profit-sharing awards and the assumed investment thereof and records for the calculation of supplemental retirement benefits.
 
Section 6. Payment of Taxes
A Highly Compensated Employee who receives a supplemental profit-sharing award under Section 4, or a contribution or payment under Section 7 with respect to his supplemental retirement benefits, shall also receive payment of an amount equal to the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) tax imposed on the Highly Compensated Employee as a result of receiving such award, contribution or payment, plus the additional amount of federal and state income taxes imposed on the Highly Compensated Employee as a result of the Company's payment of the FICA tax. Payment shall be made to the Highly Compensated Employee under this Section 6 during the calendar year in which the FICA tax is imposed on the Highly Compensated Employee.
In the event of the Plan's failure to satisfy Code Section 409A, payment of a Highly Compensated Employee's benefit hereunder may be accelerated in an amount equal to the amount required to be included in the Highly Compensated Employee's income as a result of said failure.
Section 7. Grantor Trusts and Segregated Accounts
Notwithstanding Section 5 of this Plan, the Company may provide for the establishment of Grantor Trusts and Segregated Accounts by or for the benefit of individual Executive Participants to provide for the payment of benefits under this Plan, consistent with the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The above contributions were paid within the applicable period specified in Section 7(c) above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amounts payable to an Executive Participant (or his beneficiary) under this Section 7(j) shall be determined using the assumed applicable federal and state income tax rates specified in Section 7(d)(i)(A)(II). Payments shall be made on or before the last day of the taxable year in which the respective amounts described above are includible in the individual's income.
 
 
 
 
The provisions of this Section 7 shall supersede the provisions of any other Section of this Plan to the extent such other provisions might be considered to conflict with the provisions of this Section 7.
 
Section 8. Administration
This Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall have the authority to make such rules and regulations, and to take such actions, as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of the Plan. The Committee shall have sole discretionary authority to decide any questions arising in the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan (including remedy of inconsistencies or omissions in the Plan), which decisions shall be conclusive and binding on all persons. Any claim for supplemental retirement benefits or supplemental profit-sharing benefits under the Plan shall be handled by the Committee, pursuant to the claims procedures applicable under the Retirement Plan or the Profit-Sharing Plan, respectively, and such procedures are incorporated herein by this reference. No action at law or in equity may be brought to recover benefits under the Plan until the Participant has exercised all appeal rights and the Plan benefits requested in such appeal have been denied in whole or in part. Benefits under the Plan shall be paid only if the Committee, in its discretion, determines that a claimant is entitled to them.
No action at law or in equity shall be brought to recover benefits under the Plan until the applicable appeal rights have been exercised and until the Plan benefits requested in such appeal have been denied in whole or in part. If any judicial proceeding is undertaken to appeal the denial of a claim or bring any other action under ERISA other than a breach of fiduciary duty claim, the evidence presented will be strictly limited to the evidence timely presented to the Committee. In addition, any such judicial proceeding must be filed within 180 days after the Committee's final decision.
Section 9. Amendment and Termination
The Plan may be amended or terminated by the Board of Directors of the Company at any time; provided, however, that no such amendment or termination shall deprive any Highly Compensated Employee or Executive Participant of supplemental retirement or profit-sharing plan benefits accrued to the date of such amendment or termination or modify the first paragraph of Section 6 in a manner adverse to any Highly Compensated Employee; and provided further, however, that the Plan shall not be amended without approval of the stockholders of the Company if such amendment would materially increase the cost of the Plan to the Company. In no event shall payment of a Highly Compensated Employee's Plan benefit be accelerated on account of the Plan's termination except in accordance with Code Section 409A.
 
Section 10. Nonassignability
Subject to Section 7, no Highly Compensated Employee or Executive Participant shall have the right to assign, pledge or otherwise dispose of any benefits payable to him hereunder nor shall any benefit hereunder be subject to garnishment, attachment, transfer by operation of law, or any legal process. This Section shall also apply to the creation, assignment or recognition of a right to any benefit payable pursuant to a domestic relations order, unless such order meets the requirements of Section 414(p)(1)(B) of the Code as determined by the Committee.
 


