FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20070228164909.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No family relationship exists between Mr. Wiertel and any director or executive officer of the Company.
 
(d)
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 28, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Deerfield, IL, February 28, 2007  Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO), the company behind leading consumer brands including Jim Beam, Moen and Titleist, today announced the appointment of two key executives.
Edward A. Wiertel has been elected by the Board of Directors to the open position of Vice President and Corporate Controller, effective April 9
th
. In this position, Wiertel will serve as the company's principal accounting officer. Wiertel is currently a Partner in the Chicago office of KPMG LLP, where he is responsible for leading the delivery of audit and related financial consulting services to clients, including multibillion dollar publicly-traded companies. Prior to joining KPMG as a Partner in 2002, Wiertel spent 11 years at Arthur Andersen LLP, where he was promoted to partner in 2000. A Certified Public Accountant, Wiertel is a graduate of DePaul University, where he earned a B.S. in Accounting.
Charles J. Ryan has been elected to the position of Vice President  Taxes, effective April 2
nd
. Currently the company's Director of Tax Research, Ryan will succeed Steven J. Siegler, who plans to retire at the end of March following a 35-year career at Fortune Brands. Ryan, who joined Fortune Brands in 1999, previously worked in positions of increasing responsibility related to domestic and international tax matters at GATX Corporation and Comdisco, Inc. Ryan is a Certified Public Accountant and holds a B.S. in Accounting and an M.S. in Taxation, both from DePaul University.
About Fortune Brands
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a leading consumer brands company with annual sales exceeding $8 billion. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in spirits and wine, home and hardware products, and golf equipment. Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. is the company's spirits and wine business. Major spirits and wine brands include Jim Beam and Maker's Mark bourbons, Sauza tequila, Canadian Club whisky, Courvoisier cognac, DeKuyper cordials, Starbucks liqueurs, Laphroaig
Fortune Brands Announces Executive Appointments, Page 2
 
single malt Scotch and Clos du Bois and Geyser Peak wines. Home and hardware brands include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Omega, Diamond and Schrock cabinets, Therma-Tru door systems, Simonton windows, Master Lock padlocks and Waterloo tool storage sold by units of Fortune Brands Home & Hardware LLC. Acushnet Company's golf brands include Titleist, Cobra and FootJoy. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index, the MSCI World Index and the Ocean Tomo 300 Patent Index.
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit .
www.fortunebrands.com


