FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20080903163039.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 28, 2008, Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. ("Beam Global"), a subsidiary of Fortune Brands, Inc. ("Fortune Brands"), entered into a Termination and Redemption Agreement ("Termination and Redemption Agreement") with The Absolut Spirits Company, Incorporated ("ASCI"), a subsidiary of V&S Vin & Sprit AB (publ) ("V&S"), Jim Beam Brands Co. ("JBBCo."), a subsidiary of Beam Global, and Future Brands LLC ("Future"). Future is owned 49% by ASCI and 51% by JBBCo. and Beam Global and was organized for the purpose of distributing V&S and Beam Global products in the United States. Fortune Brands and V&S also executed the Termination and Redemption Agreement for the limited purposes described below. On August 28, 2008, Beam Global also entered into a Purchase Agreement with V&S and ASCI.
As described below, the Agreements provide for the accelerated termination of the distribution by Future of V&S products in the United States, the redemption of ASCI's shares in Future and the acquisition by Beam Global of the Cruzan Rum business and related intellectual property from ASCI and V&S.
Termination and Redemption Agreement
The Termination and Redemption Agreement provides for (i) the accelerated termination of the Distribution Services Agreement, dated February 1, 2002 (the "Distribution Agreement"), whereby ASCI is obligated to use Future exclusively for distribution services relating to its products (including the Absolut vodka brand) within the United States, (ii) the redemption of ASCI's membership interests in Future, and (iii) the payment to JBBCo. of $230 million for its consent to the termination of the Distribution Agreement and the joint venture arrangements between ASCI and Future. The Distribution Agreement was originally scheduled to expire in February 2012.
The Termination and Redemption Agreement includes certain customary representations and warranties of the parties as well as covenants regarding the transition of the distribution of V&S products to other distribution arrangements following termination of the Distribution Agreement. The Termination and Redemption Agreement also provides for termination of other joint venture arrangements related to the Distribution Agreement as well as mutual releases relating to the distribution joint venture. V&S and Fortune Brands have entered into the Termination and Redemption Agreement solely for the purpose of agreeing to the termination of these related arrangements and providing releases.
The closing of the Termination and Redemption Agreement is expected to take place on September 30, 2008.
Purchase Agreement
The Purchase Agreement provides for the acquisition by Beam Global of the Cruzan Rum brand and sets forth the terms of (i) Beam Global's acquisition from ASCI of all of the outstanding shares (the "Shares") of Cruzan Viril, Ltd., a U.S. Virgin Islands corporation ("Cruzan Viril"), and certain liabilities related to Cruzan Viril's business, and (ii) Beam Global's acquisition from V&S of the intellectual property related to the Cruzan Rum brand.
 
Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, Beam Global will pay $100 million to V&S and ASCI on the closing date in exchange for the Shares and certain contracts, inventory and intellectual property related to the Cruzan Rum business to be assigned to Beam Global. The transaction is structured on a cash-free, debt-free basis.
The Purchase Agreement provides that liabilities of ASCI, V&S and their affiliates relating to their ownership or operation of the Cruzan Viril business prior to the closing will be assumed by Beam Global. However, V&S and ASCI have agreed to retain, and to indemnify Beam Global for, all liabilities and obligations relating to income taxes of Cruzan Viril and its subsidiaries for all pre-closing tax periods and the portion of any straddle period ending on the closing date and all liabilities and obligations relating to taxes (other than excise taxes) of affiliates of Cruzan Viril and its subsidiaries (other than Cruzan Viril and its subsidiaries). Beam Global has agreed to indemnify V&S, ASCI and their affiliates for liabilities to be assumed by Beam Global.
The Purchase Agreement contains certain customary representations, warranties and covenants of each of the parties, including, among others, a covenant by ASCI and V&S to cause the business of Cruzan Viril to be managed and operated in the ordinary course until the closing date. The Purchase Agreement provides that the parties shall discuss and cooperate with each other in respect of the transition of the distribution of Cruzan Rum brand products.
The closing of the Purchase Agreement is subject to customary closing conditions, including expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act.
 
The disclosure set forth in Item 1.01 above is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
On August 28, 2008, Fortune Brands issued a press release announcing the execution of the Termination and Redemption Agreement and the Purchase Agreement (each as described in Item 1.01 above). A copy of the press release is included herein as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: September 3, 2008
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
Deerfield, Illinois, August 28, 2008  Fortune Brands (NYSE: FO) and Pernod Ricard today announced an agreement under which Fortune Brands will receive compensation in exchange for early termination of the company's distribution agreement with Pernod Ricard's ABSOLUT vodka and other brands.
Under the agreement, Pernod Ricard will pay Fortune Brands $230 million in pre-tax proceeds, and Fortune Brands will pay $100 million to Pernod to acquire the premium Cruzan Rum brand. The agreement will result in the termination as of October 1
st
of the U.S. distribution agreement between Fortune Brands' Beam Global Spirits & Wine business and the U.S. business of V&S Group recently acquired by Pernod. The joint distribution agreement had been scheduled to remain in place through February of 2012.
"This is a win-win agreement that provides significant benefits to Fortune Brands," said Bruce Carbonari, president and chief executive officer of Fortune Brands. "In exchange for accelerating the end of our U.S. distribution agreement with ABSOLUT, we'll receive a cash payment of $230 million. We're also pleased that we'll acquire a fast-growing premium rum brand. Rum is one of the most attractive spirits categories, and the addition of Cruzan fills a portfolio gap in premium rum with the category's fastest growing brand in the U.S." Cruzan will join the company's portfolio of premium global brands that includes Jim Beam and Maker's Mark bourbons, Sauza tequila, Canadian Club whisky, Courvoisier cognac and Laphroaig single malt Scotch.
"Importantly, by transitioning to a dedicated sales force focused solely on our brands, we'll
 
FORTUNE BRANDS RECEIVES CASH PAYMENT FROM PERNOD RICARD
AND ACQUIRES CRUZAN RUM BRAND, PAGE 2
 
simplify our route to market in the U.S. and enjoy greater control over our distribution," Carbonari added. "Our seven-year partnership with ABSOLUT served its purpose, but our spirits business is a much bigger company today with the scale and leading positions in key spirits categories to fully leverage the strengths of a dedicated sales force."
"We believe moving forward now with this distribution solution will provide valuable clarity and sharper focus to our sales force, and will better support Beam Global's vision of building brands people to talk about,'" said Tom Flocco, president and chief executive officer of Beam Global Spirits & Wine. The company's Beam Global spirits business is the fourth largest premium spirits business in the world, and its case volume going forward will be the second largest in the U.S.
want
"This transaction serves shareholders significantly better than allowing the distribution partnership to expire in 2012," Carbonari said. "The termination payment from Pernod more than compensates for our higher costs of distribution over the remaining term of the joint venture agreement. From a strategic perspective, we'll also benefit from a dedicated U.S. sales force. And we see significant upside potential over the long term from the Cruzan Rum brand."
The company estimates it will recognize a net gain amounting to $1.18 per diluted share (approximately $180 million after tax) in its third quarter results, reflecting the cash payment from Pernod Ricard plus the remaining unamortized gain from V&S's initial investment in the joint venture, as well as modest restructuring charges to realign the sales organization.
This benefit will be partly offset by both the elimination of cost synergies and investments to build a state-of-the-art dedicated sales organization. Specifically, the company expects results to be impacted by: higher pre-tax operating costs going forward amounting to approximately $12 million in the fourth quarter and a total of approximately $35 million in 2009; and, as required by accounting rules, elimination of the noncash pre-tax deferred gain recognition of V&S's initial investment in the joint venture, which will no longer be amortized as Other Income ($7 million in the fourth quarter and $27 million total in 2009). The company expects the addition of Cruzan to be earnings neutral in year one, reflecting continued investment to build the brand.
Cruzan is the fifth largest rum brand in the U.S. and generated worldwide net sales of approximately $50 million in 2007 on volume of approximately 750,000 cases. Cruzan's depletions  sales from distributors to retailers  grew at a strong double-digit rate last year in the U.S., the brand's largest market. Founded in 1760 on the Caribbean island of St. Croix, Cruzan offers a full-line of light, dark and flavored rum. Because Cruzan is already distributed in the U.S. by the Beam Global-Absolut joint venture, the company anticipates a smooth integration of the brand into its portfolio. The acquisition includes the Cruzan distillery on St. Croix, as well as inventory.
 
FORTUNE BRANDS RECEIVES CASH PAYMENT FROM PERNOD RICARD
AND ACQUIRES CRUZAN RUM BRAND, PAGE 3
 
Fortune Brands has discussed the acquisition of Cruzan with Virgin Islands Governor John P. deJongh, Jr., who welcomed the pending sale as an important milestone in the Territory's continuing strategy to build the rum industry. "We welcome Fortune Brands and Beam Global to the U.S. Virgin Islands," Governor deJongh said. "We look forward to working with them in the years ahead to grow the Cruzan Rum brand, and to continue to explore new and cooperative ways for the government to assist in the development of the rum industry in the Territory." Fortune Brands believes the Virgin Islands Government's efforts on behalf of the rum industry contribute to the favorable prospects for the future growth of Cruzan Rum.
The acquisition of Cruzan is subject to customary regulatory approvals and is expected to close within the next month.
About Fortune Brands
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a leading consumer brands company with annual sales exceeding $8 billion. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in distilled spirits, home and hardware, and golf products. Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. is the company's premium spirits business. Major spirits brands include Jim Beam and Maker's Mark bourbon, Sauza tequila, Canadian Club whisky, Courvoisier cognac, Teacher's and Laphroaig Scotch, and DeKuyper cordials. Home and hardware brands include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Omega, Diamond and Kitchen Craft cabinetry, Therma-Tru door systems, Simonton windows, Master Lock padlocks and Waterloo tool storage sold by units of Fortune Brands Home & Hardware LLC. Acushnet Company's golf brands include Titleist, Cobra and FootJoy. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index, the MSCI World Index and the Ocean Tomo 300 Patent Index.
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit www.fortunebrands.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the company does not assume any obligation to update, amend or clarify them to reflect events, new information or circumstances occurring after the date of this release. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to: competitive market pressures (including pricing pressures); consolidation of trade customers; successful development of new products and processes; ability to secure and maintain rights to intellectual property; risks pertaining to strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, including the potential financial effects and performance of such acquisitions or joint ventures, and integration of acquisitions and the related confirmation or remediation of internal controls over financial reporting; changes
 
FORTUNE BRANDS RECEIVES CASH PAYMENT FROM PERNOD RICARD
AND ACQUIRES CRUZAN RUM BRAND, PAGE 4
 
related to the privatization of V&S Group; ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; general economic conditions, including the U.S. housing market; weather; risks associated with doing business outside the United States, including currency exchange rate risks; interest rate fluctuations; commodity and energy price volatility; costs of certain employee and retiree benefits and returns on pension assets; dependence on performance of distributors and other marketing arrangements; the impact of excise tax increases on distilled spirits; changes in golf equipment regulatory standards and other regulatory developments; potential liabilities, costs and uncertainties of litigation; impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles; historical consolidated financial statements that may not be indicative of future conditions and results due to the recent portfolio realignment; any possible downgrades of the company's credit ratings; as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.


