FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20080725080449.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
July 25, 2008 (July 24, 2008)
Fortune Brands, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
520 Lake Cook Road
Deerfield, IL  60015
(Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
847-484-4400
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN THE REPORT
Item 2.02.        Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Pursuant to Form 8-K, Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure, Fortune Brands, Inc. (Fortune Brands or the Company) is furnishing its press release dated July 25, 2008, which reports the Companys second quarter 2008 results, as well as certain guidance for 2008.  The press release also reports an increase in the annual dividend rate from $1.68 to $1.76 per share (or from 42 to 44 per share per quarter) of the Companys common stock. The press release is included herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.  Pursuant to general instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
Item 7.01.        Regulation FD Disclosure.
See Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition above.
Item 8.01.        Other Events.
V&S Vin & Sprit AB (publ) (V&S), which had been owned by the Kingdom of Sweden, owned a 10% minority interest in Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. (BGSW), the subsidiary of Fortune Brands conducting its spirits business.  This minority interest was in the form of redeemable and convertible preferred stock.  The Company owned the remaining 90% of the capital stock of BGSW.
The Company has the right to acquire the 10% minority interest in BGSW at fair market value in the event of an agreement for the transfer of control of V&S to a third party.  The Company has exercised that right as a result of the agreement for the transfer of control of V&S from the Kingdom of Sweden to Pernod Ricard S.A.
The Companys acquisition of the 10% minority interest in BGSW was completed on July 24, 2008 by the payment by the Company of $455 million.  The fair market value purchase price was determined by an independent valuation expert, Hawkpoint Partners Limited, based in London, in accordance with an agreement between V&S and the Company.  In addition, BGSW paid accrued and unpaid dividends on this BGSW preferred stock.
As a result of the purchase, the Company now owns 100% of the capital stock of BGSW.
Item 9.01.        Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
Fortune Brands Reports Second Quarter Results
DEERFIELD, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--
Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO):
Results Achieve High End of Updated Target Range
Company Boosts Dividend 5% to Annual Rate of $1.76 Per Share
Share Buybacks Exceed 4.3 Million Shares Since March 31
Company Completes Repurchase from V&S Group of Minority Interest in Beam Global Spirits Business
Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO), the company behind leading consumer brands including Jim Beam, Titleist and Moen, today reported results for the second quarter of 2008. Earnings per share before charges/gains were at the high end of the companys recently updated target range. Higher shipments of spirits brands in the U.S. and strong growth in Asian markets for the companys golf and home products brands partly offset the adverse impact of the ongoing correction in the U.S. housing market, the softening consumer environment in the U.S., higher commodities costs, and the unanticipated Australian excise tax increase on ready-to-drink spirits products.
Reported results reflected the impact of one-time items amounting to a net after-tax charge of $60 million. The one-time items include a non-cash write-down of goodwill and identifiable intangibles related to the impact of the U.S. housing correction primarily on the companys door brands, a non-cash write-down of the companys investment in the Maxxium international joint venture related to the forthcoming exit of Rmy Cointreau, and restructuring and restructuring-related charges in the home products and spirits units. These items were partly offset by credits related to the favorable resolution of IRS tax matters and a gain related to the repurchase of the minority interest in the companys spirits business previously held by V&S Group.
While we faced a tougher-than-expected environment in the second quarter, we remain intensely focused on two objectives  outperforming our product categories, and investing for the future to drive sustainable long-term growth and returns, said Bruce Carbonari, president and chief executive officer of Fortune Brands. Were benefiting from proactive cost reductions, productivity improvements and share-gain initiatives in our home products business, where weve eliminated 25% of facilities while maintaining supply-chain flexibility and strategic spend. Were continuing to build a high-performance organization behind our spirits brands, and were investing to creatively build premium brand equity to grow revenues faster than case volumes. And were investing to grow our golf brands through innovation and expansion in promising international markets. We believe that these are the right moves to create long-term value for our shareholders.
The action plans were pursuing benefited Fortune Brands in the second quarter, Carbonari added. While our double-digit increase in brand-building investments and the Australia RTD tax increase adversely impacted operating income in our spirits business, we drove solid revenue and volume growth for several key premium spirits brands in the U.S. We also benefited from the anticipated rebuilding of U.S. spirits distributor inventories. Despite a U.S. housing correction that has intensified, we continued outperforming the home products market on the success of our share-gain initiatives, while achieving expected savings from our proactive cost initiatives. And our international growth initiatives helped drive double-digit growth for our golf brands in key Asian markets, partly offsetting the impact of a double-digit increase in brand investment and the soft consumer environment in the U.S.
For the second quarter of 2008:
Net income was $136.0 million, or $0.88 per diluted share, versus $1.48 per share in the year-ago quarter.
Excluding one-time items in both the current and prior-year periods, diluted EPS before charges/gains for continuing operations was $1.25, down 17% from $1.51 in the year-ago quarter.
Net sales from continuing operations were $2.1 billion, down 9%.
Operating income was a loss of $16 million, and was positive $325 million on a before charges/gains basis.
Return on equity before charges/gains was 13%.
Return on invested capital before charges/gains was 8%.
Returning Value to Shareholders: Dividend Increase and Share Buybacks
The company also announced that its board of directors has approved a 5% increase in the dividend on the companys common stock. The dividend will increase 8 cents per share to an annual rate of $1.76 (payable $0.44 per quarter) from $1.68 per share ($0.42 per quarter). The next quarterly dividend is payable on September 2, 2008 to shareholders of record at the close of business August 13, 2008.
Furthermore, the company disclosed that it has repurchased more than 4.3 million shares of its common stock since implementing on March 31 an authorization to repurchase up to 15 million shares.
st
In addition to our focus on sustainable long-term growth, were also committed to putting our financial flexibility to work to return immediate value to shareholders, Carbonari continued. This dividend increase underscores the strength of our balance sheet and our confidence in Fortune Brands ability to deliver strong results over the long term. Notably, this is the 12 year in a row weve increased the dividend since the company began trading as Fortune Brands, and our dividend currently offers a yield of approximately 3%. We also see our share price as an extremely attractive high-return opportunity, and weve moved aggressively to repurchase shares of Fortune Brands to create additional value for shareholders.
th
The company also declared a regular dividend of 66.75 cents per share on the $2.67 Convertible Preferred Stock, payable in cash on September 10, 2008 to shareholders of record at the close of business August 13, 2008.
Company Repurchases Minority Interest in Spirits Business
The company further announced that it has completed the repurchase of the equity minority interest in its Beam Global spirits business previously held by V&S Group. The companys partnership agreement with V&S provided for a third-party evaluator to determine the sale price of the minority interest. An independent evaluator established $455 million plus accrued dividends as the price to repurchase the preferred shares, which, as previously disclosed, could not be sold to another company and had unique shareholder rights as a preferred security.
The price established for the repurchase of the equity minority interest is good news for our shareholders, and reflects the unique features of the preferred shares held by V&S as well as the debt structure of Beam Global, Carbonari said. Because this valuation was below the $543 million value we carry on our books, we have recorded a gain in our second quarter results. With this transaction now complete, we look forward to benefiting from the entire financial performance of our highest profit business.
Outlook for Third Quarter and Full Year
As we look to the back half of the year, well continue to focus on outperforming our markets and ensuring a strong foundation for sustainable long-term growth, said Carbonari. While well still face the headwinds of an intensified U.S. housing correction, the weakness in U.S. consumer confidence and the Australian ready-to-drink tax increase, we expect to benefit from share gains, growth in international markets, our position in the relatively stable premium spirits market, annualization of our stepped-up brand investments in spirits and golf, and company-wide productivity initiatives and cost controls.
For the third quarter, were targeting diluted EPS before charges/gains to be down at a mid-teens-to-mid-20s percentage rate compared to $1.34 in the year-ago quarter. For the full year, we continue to expect diluted EPS before charges/gains to be down at a high-single-digit-to-high-teens percentage rate compared to $5.06 in 2007, Carbonari concluded.
The company also announced that it is now targeting free cash flow for 2008, after dividends and capital expenditures, to approximate $500 million.
About Fortune Brands
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a leading consumer brands company with annual sales exceeding $8 billion. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in distilled spirits, home and hardware, and golf products. Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. is the companys premium spirits business. Major spirits brands include Jim Beam and Makers Mark bourbon, Sauza tequila, Canadian Club whisky, Courvoisier cognac, Teachers and Laphroaig Scotch, and DeKuyper cordials. Home and hardware brands include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Omega, Diamond and Kitchen Craft cabinetry, Therma-Tru door systems, Simonton windows, Master Lock padlocks and Waterloo tool storage sold by units of Fortune Brands Home & Hardware LLC. Acushnet Companys golf brands include Titleist, Cobra and FootJoy. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index, the MSCI World Index and the Ocean Tomo 300 Patent Index.
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit .
www.fortunebrands.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the company does not assume any obligation to update, amend or clarify them to reflect events, new information or circumstances occurring after the date of this release. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to: competitive market pressures (including pricing pressures); consolidation of trade customers; successful development of new products and processes; ability to secure and maintain rights to intellectual property; risks pertaining to strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, including the potential financial effects and performance of such acquisitions or joint ventures, and integration of acquisitions and the related confirmation or remediation of internal controls over financial reporting; changes related to the privatization of V&S Group; ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; general economic conditions, including the U.S. housing market; weather; risks associated with doing business outside the United States, including currency exchange rate risks; interest rate fluctuations; commodity and energy price volatility; costs of certain employee and retiree benefits and returns on pension assets; dependence on performance of distributors and other marketing arrangements; the impact of excise tax increases on distilled spirits; changes in golf equipment regulatory standards and other regulatory developments; potential liabilities, costs and uncertainties of litigation; impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles; historical consolidated financial statements that may not be indicative of future conditions and results due to the recent portfolio realignment; any possible downgrades of the companys credit ratings; as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release includes measures not derived in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), such as diluted earnings per share before charges/gains, operating income before charges/gains, return on equity before charges/gains, return on invested capital before charges/gains, comparable net sales, and free cash flow. These measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for any measure derived in accordance with GAAP, and may also be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies. Reconciliation of these measures to the most closely comparable GAAP measures, and reasons for the companys use of these measures, are presented in the attached pages.
(a) Operating Income Before Charges is Operating Income/(Loss) derived in accordance with GAAP excluding restructuring and restructuring-related items and intangible asset impairments. Operating Income Before Charges is a measure not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management uses this measure to determine the returns generated by our operating segments and to evaluate and identify cost reduction initiatives. Management believes this measure provides investors with helpful supplemental information regarding the underlying performance of the company from year-to-year. This measure may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.
(b) Free Cash Flow is Cash Flow from Operations less net capital expenditures and dividends paid to stockholders plus taxes paid on the sale of the wine business. Free Cash Flow is a measure not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management believes that Free Cash Flow provides investors with helpful supplemental information about the company's ability to fund internal growth, make acquisitions, repay debt and repurchase common stock. This measure may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.
(c) Assumes current dividend rate and basic shares outstanding on June 30, 2008.
EPS BEFORE CHARGES/GAINS
EPS from Continuing Operations Before Charges/Gains is Net Income from Continuing Operations calculated on a per-share basis excluding restructuring, restructuring-related and one-time items.
For the second quarter of 2008, EPS from Continuing Operations Before Charges/Gains is Net Income from Continuing Operations calculated on a per-share basis excluding $16.4 million ($11.0 million after tax or $0.07 per diluted share) of restructuring and restructuring-related items, intangible asset impairments of $324.3 million ($310.7 million after tax or $2.00 per diluted share), tax-related credits of $98.4 million ($0.63 per diluted share), a write down of the Maxxium investment of $25.1 million ($0.16 per diluted share) and an after-tax gain resulting from the repurchase of the Beam Global minority interest of $81.6 million ($0.52 per diluted share).
For the six month period ended June 30, 2008, EPS from Continuing Operations Before Charges/Gains is Net Income from Continuing Operations calculated on a per-share basis excluding $24.5 million ($16.2 million after tax or $0.10 per diluted share) of restructuring and restructuring-related items, intangible asset impairments of $324.3 million ($310.7 million after tax or $2.00 per diluted share), tax-related credits of $98.2 million ($0.63 per diluted share), write down of the Maxxium investment of $25.1 million ($0.16 per diluted share), an after-tax gain resulting from the repurchase of the Beam Global minority interest of $81.6 million ($0.52 per diluted share) and V&S auction process costs of $8.2 million ($5.2 million after tax or $0.03 per diluted share).
For the second quarter of 2007, EPS from Continuing Operations Before Charges/Gains is Net Income calculated on a per-share basis excluding $10.8 million ($6.7 million after tax or $0.04 per diluted share) of restructuring and restructuring-related items. For the six-month period ended June 30, 2007, EPS from Continuing Operations Before Charges/Gains excludes $19.8 million ($12.4 million after tax or $0.08 per diluted share) of restructuring and restructuring-related items.
EPS from Continuing Operations Before Charges/Gains is a measure not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management uses this measure to evaluate the overall performance of the company and believes this measure provides investors with helpful supplemental information regarding the underlying performance of the company from year to year. This measure may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.
RESTRUCTURING AND RESTRUCTURING-RELATED ITEMS
The company recorded pre-tax restructuring and restructuring-related items of $16.4 million ($11.0 million after tax or $0.07 per diluted share) in the three-month period ended June 30, 2008. For Spirits, these charges are for organizational repositioning and supply chain activities. For Home & Hardware, the charges relate to supply chain realignment and cost reduction initiatives.
The company recorded pre-tax restructuring and restructuring-related items of $24.5 million ($16.2 million after tax or $0.10 per diluted share) in the six-month period ended June 30, 2008. For Spirits, these charges are for organizational repositioning and supply chain activities. For Home & Hardware, the charges relate to supply chain realignment and cost reduction initiatives.
RECONCILIATION OF 2008 COMPARABLE NET SALES TO GAAP NET SALES
For the second quarter, Comparable Net Sales for Fortune Brands would have been down 10%. On a GAAP basis, Fortune Brands' Net Sales were down 9%.
Comparable Net Sales is Net Sales derived in accordance with GAAP excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, spirits excise taxes, the net sales from divested entities and product lines, and the impact of third-party bottling contracts.
Comparable Net Sales is a measure not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management uses this measure to evaluate the overall performance of the company, and believes this measure provides investors with helpful supplemental information regarding the underlying performance of the company from year-to-year. This measure may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.
RECONCILIATION OF 2008 EARNINGS GUIDANCE TO GAAP
For the third quarter, the company is targeting diluted EPS before charges/gains from continuing operations to be down at a mid-teens-to-mid-20s percentage rate versus EPS before charges/gains from continuing operations of $1.34 in a year ago quarter. On a GAAP basis, the company is targeting diluted EPS from continuing operations to be down at a mid-teens-to-high-20s percentage rate.
For the full year, the company is targeting diluted EPS before charges/gains from continuing operations to be down at a high-single-digit-to-high-teens percentage rate versus EPS before charges/gains from continuing operations of $5.06 in 2007. On a GAAP basis, the company is targeting diluted EPS from continuing operations to be down at a mid-20s-to-high-30s percentage rate.
EPS Before Charges/Gains from continuing operations is a measure not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management uses this measure to evaluate the overall performance of the company and believes this measure provides investors with helpful supplemental information regarding the underlying performance of the company from year to year. This measure may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.
Return on Invested Capital - or ROIC - Before Charges/Gains is net income from continuing operations plus interest expense derived in accordance with GAAP excluding any restructuring and non-recurring items divided by the twelve month average of GAAP Invested Capital (net debt plus equity) excluding any restructuring and non-recurring items.
ROE From Continuing Operations Before Charges/Gains and ROIC From Continuing Operations Before Charges/Gains are measures not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management uses these measures to determine the returns generated by the company and to evaluate and identify cost-reduction initiatives. Management believes these measures provide investors with helpful supplemental information regarding the underlying performance of the company from year-to-year. These measures may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.
CONTACT:
Fortune Brands, Inc.
Media Relations:
Clarkson Hine
(847) 484-4415
or
Investor Relations:
Tony Diaz
(847) 484-4410


