FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20081003163715.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) On September 30, 2008, Fortune Brands, Inc. ("Fortune Brands" or the "Company") issued a press release announcing that Norman H. Wesley would retire as Chairman of the Board of the Company effective October 1, 2008. Mr. Wesley will continue to serve as a Class III member of the Board of Directors. Also effective October 1, 2008, Bruce A. Carbonari, President and Chief Executive Officer, was elected by the Board of Directors to the office of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
(e) On September 29, 2008, the Compensation and Stock Option Committee of the Board of Directors of Fortune Brands approved an amendment to the letter agreement dated January 2, 2002 between the Company and Mr. Carbonari which provides for a lump sum payment upon his retirement. The amendment to the letter agreement was made to provide that payment of this incentive will be delayed for six months following separation from service with the Company. This amendment was made to reflect changes necessitated by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (effective January 1, 2005). The form of amendment to the letter agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this report and incorporated by reference herein.
On September 30, 2008, the Board of Directors approved the First Amendment to the Fortune Brands, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this report and incorporated by reference herein. The Plan was amended to reflect changes necessitated by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (effective January 1, 2005) and to clarify that Section 12(b)(i) of the Plan governs the vesting of options and rights in the event of a change in control. The Plan covers executive officers including Messrs. Bruce A. Carbonari, Mark Hausberg, Christopher J. Klein, Craig P. Omtvedt and Mark A. Roche and other eligible employees.
The summaries of the amendments above are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the amendments attached as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 to this Form 8-K.
 
(d)
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 3, 2008
 

Exhibit 10.1
[Date]
Mr. Bruce A. Carbonari
[Address]
Re: Amendment of Special Retention Payment Letter
Dear Bruce:
By letter dated January 2, 2002 (the "Letter Agreement"), the Company extended a special retention payment opportunity to you. Since that time, legislation was enacted governing deferred compensation (Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code). Because you are currently a "specified employee" as defined in Section 409A, and you will likely continue to be classified as a specified employee, we are amending your Letter Agreement as follows:
The Letter Agreement is amended to provide that the Special Management Retention Payment will not be paid earlier than six months following your separation from service (as defined in Section 409A).
Please sign below to indicate your agreement to this amendment of the Letter Agreement.
 
I have read this letter and agree to the amendment to my Special Management Retention Payment arrangement as set forth above.
 

Exhibit 10.2
WHEREAS, Fortune Brands, Inc. ("Fortune") maintains the Fortune Brands, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"); and
WHEREAS, Fortune considers it necessary and desirable to amend the Plan to comply with the requirements under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and make such other clarifications in the Plan as are considered desirable.
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue and in exercise of the power reserved to the Board of Directors of Fortune by Section 13 of the Plan, the Plan be and is hereby amended, effective as of January 1, 2008, in the following particulars:
1. By adding the following sentence at the end of Section 12(c) of the Plan:
"For avoidance of doubt, Section 12(b)(i) of the Plan  and not this Section 12(c)  shall govern the vesting of Options and Rights in the event of a Change in Control."
2. By adding the following new Section 18 immediately following Section 17 of the Plan:
"18. Deferrals and Section 409A
(a) . To the extent an Award provided under the Plan would constitute a deferred compensation arrangement under Section 409A, this Section 18 shall apply.
Purpose
(b) . An Award that is subject to Section 409A must designate the time and form of payment pursuant to such rules and procedures as the Committee may establish. If the Committee, in its discretion, allows the Participant to designate either the time or form of payment, such designation shall be made no later than such the dates provided below:
Timing of Deferral Elections
(i) A Participant may make a designation with respect to an Award (or compensation giving rise thereto) at any time in any calendar year preceding the year in which services giving rise to such compensation or Award are rendered.
 
(ii) In the case of the first year in which a Participant becomes eligible to receive an Award under the Plan, the Participant may make a designation within 30 days after the date the Participant becomes eligible to participate in the Plan; provided, that such election may apply only with respect to the portion of the Award or compensation attributable to services to be performed subsequent to the election.
(iii) Where the grant of an Award or payment of compensation, or the applicable vesting, is conditioned upon the satisfaction of pre-established organizational or individual performance criteria relating to a performance period of at least 12 consecutive months in which the Participant performs services, a Participant may make a designation no later than six months prior to the end of the applicable performance period.
(iv) Where the vesting of an Award is contingent upon the Participant's continued services for a period of no less than 13 months, the Participant may make a designation within 30 days of receiving an Award.
(v) A Participant may make a designation in other circumstances and at such times as may be permitted under Section 409A.
In the event the Committee does not permit the Participant to designate either the time or form of distribution and such deferred compensation arrangement is considered a "service recipient election" under Treas. Reg.  1.409A-2(a)(2), the Committee shall designate the time and form payment no later than the date on which the Participant has a legally binding right to the Award or, if later, the date on which the Participant could have made a designation pursuant to clauses (i) through (v) above.
(c) Any amounts subject to a deferred compensation arrangement created under the Plan shall be distributed at such times as provided in the Award, which may be upon the earliest or latest of one or more of the following:
Distribution Dates.
(i) a fixed date as set forth in the Award or pursuant to a Participant's designation;
 
(ii) the Participant's death;
(iii) the Participant's disability, as defined in Section 409A;
(iv) a change in control event, as defined in Section 409A;
(v) an unforeseeable emergency, as defined in Section 409A and implemented by the Committee;
(vi) a Participant's separation of Service, as defined in Section 409A; or
(vii) such other events as permitted under Section 409A and the regulations and guidance thereunder.
(d) .No distribution of a deferral may be made pursuant to the Plan if the Committee reasonably determines that such distribution would (i) violate federal securities laws or other applicable law; (ii) be nondeductible pursuant to Code Section 162(m); or (iii) jeopardize the ability of Fortune or a Subsidiary to continue as a going concern. In any such case, distribution shall be made during the Company's and/or Subsidiary's taxable year in which the Committee reasonably anticipates such distribution would not trigger clause (i), (ii) or (iii) above.
Restrictions on Distributions
(e) The Committee may in its discretion terminate the deferred compensation arrangements created under the Plan subject to the following:
Termination of Deferred Compensation Arrangements.
(i) the arrangement may be terminated within the 30 days preceding, or 12 months following, a change in control event pursuant to such conditions as are provided under Section 409A, provided that all payments under such arrangement are distributed in full within 12 months after termination;
(ii) the arrangement may be terminated in the Committee's discretion at any time provided that (A) all deferred compensation arrangements of similar type maintained by the Company are terminated, (B) all payments are made at least 12 months and no more than 24 months after the termination, and (C) Fortune does not adopt a new arrangement of similar type for a period of five years following the termination of the arrangement;
(iii) the arrangement may be terminated within 12 months of a corporate dissolution taxed under Code Section 331 or with the approval of a bankruptcy court pursuant to 11 U.S.C. 503(b)(1)(A) provided that the payments under the arrangement are distributed by the latest of the (A) the
 
end of the calendar year of the termination, (B) the calendar year in which such payments are fully vested, or (C) the first calendar year in which such payment is administratively practicable."
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the foregoing amendment was duly adopted by the Board of Directors this 30
th
day of September, 2008.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Fortune Brands, Inc., 520 Lake Cook Road, Deerfield, IL 60015
 
 
 
Deerfield, Illinois, September 30, 2008  Norm Wesley, chairman of the board of Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO), today announced that he will retire after more than two decades with the company and nearly nine years as chairman. Bruce Carbonari, currently president and chief executive officer, has been elected chairman and chief executive officer, effective October 1, 2008. Wesley, who also served as chief executive officer from December 1999 through December 2007, will remain a member of the Fortune Brands board.
"This completes the leadership transition we began more than a year ago when we announced Bruce would become our CEO," said Wesley. "Bruce is a leader with an intense focus on the consumer, operational excellence and creating value for shareholders, and he is ideally suited to be our chairman. Over the years, I've had the privilege of working with so many great people at every level of Fortune Brands. I've worked with Bruce for nearly two decades, and I couldn't be more pleased to pass the chairman's seat to him."
"Norm has been a tremendous leader of our company and I am honored to succeed him as chairman," said Carbonari. "More importantly, I'm pleased the board will continue to benefit from Norm's wisdom and experience. For the better part of this decade, Norm led a remarkable realignment at Fortune Brands that sharpened the company's focus on growth and returns, including the significant expansion of our high-return spirits and home products businesses and the spin-off of the office products unit. The entire Fortune Brands team looks forward to building on his accomplishments as we position Fortune Brands for future growth."
Wesley joined Fortune Brands in 1987 as part of the acquisition of the company's former office products subsidiary. For more than ten years he led the office products unit, which Fortune Brands spun off to shareholders in 2005. Wesley became CEO of the company's home and hardware business in 1997, president and chief operating officer of Fortune Brands in January 1999, and chairman and CEO of Fortune Brands in December 1999.
FORTUNE BRANDS CHAIRMAN NORM WESLEY ANNOUNCES RETIREMENT;
TO BE SUCCEEDED BY CEO BRUCE CARBONARI, PAGE 2
Carbonari has been a member of the board since August 2007 and president and CEO since January 2008, when he succeeded Wesley as chief executive. An 18-year veteran of the Fortune Brands leadership team, Carbonari previously served as president and chief operating officer of Fortune Brands, led the company's Home & Hardware subsidiary, and also led Moen, the company's largest single brand. He earned a BA in finance and accounting from Boston College and a master's degree in management sciences from Hartford Graduate Center, an affiliate of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Carbonari currently serves as chairman-elect of the policy advisory board of the Joint Center for Housing Studies of Harvard University, as well as on the board of RPM, Inc.
About Fortune Brands
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a leading consumer brands company with annual sales exceeding $8 billion. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in distilled spirits, home and hardware, and golf products. Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. is the company's premium spirits business. Major spirits brands include Jim Beam and Maker's Mark bourbon, Sauza tequila, Canadian Club whisky, Courvoisier cognac, Teacher's and Laphroaig Scotch, and DeKuyper cordials. Home and hardware brands include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Omega, Diamond and Kitchen Craft cabinetry, Therma-Tru door systems, Simonton windows, Master Lock padlocks and Waterloo tool storage sold by units of Fortune Brands Home & Hardware LLC. Acushnet Company's golf brands include Titleist, Cobra and FootJoy. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index, the MSCI World Index and the Ocean Tomo 300 Patent Index.
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit www.fortunebrands.com.


