FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20090319091800.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) On March 13, 2009, the Board of Directors of Fortune Brands, Inc. ("Fortune Brands" or the "Company") approved an amendment to the Fortune Brands, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this report and incorporated by reference herein. The Plan was amended to change the minimum performance period for awards issued under the Plan from two years to one year. The Plan covers executive officers including Messrs. Bruce A. Carbonari, Mark Hausberg, Christopher J. Klein, Craig P. Omtvedt and Mark A. Roche and other eligible employees.
On March 14, 2009, the Compensation and Stock Option Committee of the Board of Directors of Fortune Brands, Inc. (the "Committee") approved shifting to annual performance goals during the 2009-2011 performance period that will replace the three-year performance goals previously established for the entire 2009-2011 performance period. The Committee also set the 2009 performance share award goals, which are certain levels of earnings per share (EPS) growth and return on invested capital (ROIC). Performance share awards will continue to be based on EPS and ROIC performance over the three-year period; however, separate goals for each year in the performance period will be set at the beginning of the year.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 19, 2009
 

Exhibit 10.1
WHEREAS, Fortune Brands, Inc. ("Fortune") maintains the Fortune Brands, Inc. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"); and
WHEREAS, Fortune considers it necessary and desirable to amend the Plan to change the minimum duration of a performance period from two years to one year for performance awards under the Plan.
NOW, THEREFORE, by virtue and in exercise of the power reserved to the Board of Directors of Fortune by Section 13 of the Plan, the Plan be and is hereby amended, effective as of January 1, 2009, in the following particulars:
1. By deleting the second sentence of Section 7(a) of the Plan in its entirety and inserting the following in lieu thereof:
"The Committee shall determine the nature, length and starting date of the Performance Period for each Performance Award, which shall be at least one year (subject to Sections 12(c) and 12(d)) and shall determine the Performance Goals to be used in valuing Performance Awards and determining the extent to which such Performance Awards have been earned."
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the foregoing amendment was duly adopted by the Board of Directors this day of , 2009.
        
                    
 


