FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20090612160329.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 9, 2009, Fortune Brands, Inc. (the "Company") and Barclays Capital Inc., Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and RSB Securities Inc., acting for themselves and as representatives of the other several underwriters, entered into an Underwriting Agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") in connection with the offer and sale of $500 million aggregate principal amount of its 6.375% Notes due 2014 (the "Notes") in an underwritten public offering (the "Offering"). The Underwriting Agreement contains representations, warranties and agreements of the Company, conditions to closing, indemnification and contribution rights and obligations of the parties, termination provisions and other terms and conditions in each case that are customary in agreements of this type. The issuance and sale of the Notes closed on June 12, 2009.
From time to time in the ordinary course of their respective businesses, certain of the underwriters, the indenture trustee and their affiliates have engaged in and may in the future engage in commercial banking, investment management, investment banking, derivatives and/or financial advisory and other commercial transactions and services with the Company and its affiliates for which they have received or will receive fees and commissions.
The Securities were offered and sold by the Company pursuant to its automatic shelf Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration Statement No. 333-159008), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2009, as supplemented by the final prospectus supplement dated June 9, 2009 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 10, 2009.
The Notes were issued pursuant to the Indenture dated as of April 15, 1999 (the "Indenture") between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon (formerly The Chase Manhattan Bank), as trustee. The Indenture contains covenants that require the Company to satisfy certain conditions in order to incur debt secured by liens, engage in sale/leaseback transactions or merge or consolidate with another entity. The Indenture also provides for customary events of default and other customary provisions.
The Notes will mature on June 15, 2014 and bear interest at a fixed rate of 6.375% per annum, subject to adjustment for certain changes in our debt ratings. The Company will pay interest on the Notes from June 12, 2009 semi-annually, in arrears, on June 15 and December 15 of each year, beginning December 15, 2009. The Notes constitute unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company and will rank on a parity with all of the Company's other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness from time to time outstanding.
At its option, the Company may redeem the Notes in whole or in part, at any time before their maturity, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) the principal amount of the Notes being redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of the Notes to be redeemed (excluding interest accrued as of the redemption date), discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis at the applicable Treasury Rate (as defined in the Notes) plus 50 basis points.
If a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined in the Notes) occurs, the Company will be required to make an offer on the terms set forth in the Notes to each holder of the Notes to repurchase all or any part of that holder's Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any.
The above descriptions of certain terms and conditions of the Underwriting Agreement and the Notes are qualified by reference to the full texts of the Underwriting Agreement and the form of Note, copies of which are filed herewith as Exhibits 1 and 4, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference. The above description of certain terms and conditions of the Indenture is qualified by reference to the full text of the Indenture, a copy of which was filed as Exhibit 4 to our Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 10, 1999 (File No. 1-9076) and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information set forth under "Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 1
June 9, 2009
Fortune Brands, Inc.
520 Lake Cook Road
Deerfield, Illinois 60015
Dear Sirs:
We (the "Manager") understand that Fortune Brands, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 6.375% Notes due 2014 (the "Notes", the "Debt Securities" or the "Offered Securities"). Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein or incorporated by reference herein, the Company hereby agrees to sell and the underwriters named below (the "Underwriters") agree to purchase the Offered Securities at 99.348% of the principal amount of such Offered Securities and accrued interest from June 12, 2009, if any, to the date of payment and delivery.
 
Upon delivery of such Offered Securities, the Underwriters will pay for such Offered Securities at a closing to be held at the offices of Davis Polk & Wardwell, 450 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017 at 10:00 a.m. (New York time) on June 12, 2009, or at such other time as shall be designated by the Manager.
1. The following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them below for purposes of this Agreement and, notwithstanding the definitions of such terms contained in the Fortune Brands, Inc. Underwriting Agreement (Debt Securities and Warrants to Purchase Debt Securities) dated June 9, 2009 (the "Standard Provisions"), a copy of which you have previously received, shall have the meanings ascribed to them below for purposes of the Standard Provisions:
Definitions.
(a) "Rules" refers to the rules promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act").
(b) "Registration Statement" as of any time means the Registration Statement (as otherwise defined in the Standard Provisions) and any additional information contained in a form of prospectus or prospectus supplement that is deemed retroactively to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rules 430A, 430B or 430C.
(c) "Statutory Prospectus" means the prospectus relating to the Offered Securities that is included in the Registration Statement in the form first used (or made available upon request of purchasers pursuant to Rule 173) in connection with confirmation of sales of the Offered Securities, including any document incorporated by reference therein and any prospectus or prospectus supplement deemed to be a part thereof that has not been superseded or modified. For purposes of this definition, information contained in a form of prospectus (including a prospectus supplement) that is deemed retroactively to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rules 430A, 430B or 430C shall be considered to be included in the Statutory Prospectus only as of the actual time that form of prospectus (including a prospectus supplement) is filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b).
(d) "Issuer Free Writing Prospectus" means any "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, relating to the Offered Securities in the form filed or required to be filed with the Commission by the Company or, if not required to be filed, in the form retained in the Company's records pursuant to Rule 433(g).
(e) "General Use Free Writing Prospectus" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is intended for general distribution to prospective investors, as evidenced by its being specified in Schedule A to this Agreement.
(f) "Limited Use Free Writing Prospectus" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not a General Use Free Writing Prospectus.
(g) "Time of Sale" means the time when sales of the Offered Securities are first made.
(h) "Time of Sale Information" means a Preliminary Prospectus Supplement dated June 9, 2009, together with the Base Prospectus included in the Registration Statement and each General Use Free Writing Prospectus issued at or prior to the Time of Sale.
2. In addition to the representations, warranties and agreements of the Company in the Standard Provisions, the Company, as of the date of this Agreement, represents and warrants to, and agrees with, each Underwriter that:
Representations and Warranties of the Company.
(a) As of the Time of Sale, neither (i) any Time of Sale Information nor (ii) any Limited Use Free Writing Prospectus, when considered together with the Time of Sale Information, included any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. As of the Closing Date, neither (i) the Time of Sale Information and the Statutory Prospectus (collectively, the "General Disclosure Package") nor (ii) any individual Limited Use Free Writing Prospectus, when considered together with the General Disclosure Package, will include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any prospectus included in the Registration Statement or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Manager specifically for use therein.
(b) Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the public offer and sale of the Offered Securities or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Manager as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information then contained in the Registration Statement. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus related to the Offered Securities conflicted or would conflict with the information then contained in the Registration Statement or included
or would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or would omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances prevailing at that subsequent time, not misleading, (i) the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Manager and (ii) the Company has promptly amended or will promptly amend or supplement such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus related to the Offered Securities to eliminate or correct such conflict, untrue statement or omission. The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Manager specifically for use therein.
(c) (i) The Registration Statement is not the subject of any pending proceeding or examination under Sections 8(d) or 8(e) of the Securities Act and (ii) the Company is not, to the best of its knowledge, the subject of a pending proceeding under Section 8A of the Securities Act in connection with the offering of the Securities.
(d) At the earliest time after the filing of the Registration Statement that the Company or another offering participant made a offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2)) of the Offered Securities and at the date of this Agreement, the Company was not an "ineligible issuer," as defined in Rule 405.
bona fide
(e) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or other person associated with or acting on behalf of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has (i) used any corporate funds for any unlawful contribution, gift, entertainment or other unlawful expense relating to political activity; (ii) made any direct or indirect unlawful payment to any foreign or domestic government official or employee from corporate funds; (iii) violated or is in violation of any provision of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977; or (iv) made any bribe, rebate, payoff, influence payment, kickback or other unlawful payment.
No Unlawful Payments.
(f) . The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines, issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "Money Laundering Laws") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened.
Compliance with Money Laundering Laws
(g) None of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury ("OFAC"); and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering of the Securities hereunder, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
Compliance with OFAC.
3. (a)The Company has complied and will comply with Rule 433. Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus complied in all material respects with Rule 433 and has been, or will be, filed to the extent required in accordance with such rule.
Certain Agreements of the Company.
 
(b) The reference to "is required by law to be delivered" in the first sentence of paragraph (c) of Article VI of the Standard Provisions is replaced with "is (or but for the exemption in Rule 172 would be required by law to be) delivered".
4. The Company represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Manager, and each Underwriter represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Company and the Manager, it has not made and will not make any offer relating to the Offered Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 405, required to be filed with the Commission. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the Company hereby consents to the provision by the Underwriters of a Term Sheet, the form of which is set forth in Schedule B attached hereto.
Free Writing Prospectuses.
5. In relation to each Member State of the European Economic Area which has implemented the Prospectus Directive (each, a "Relevant Member State"), each Underwriter hereby represents and agrees that with effect from and including the date on which the Prospectus Directive is implemented in that Relevant Member State (the "Relevant Implementation Date") it has not made and will not make an offer of the Debt Securities to the public in that Relevant Member State prior to the publication of a prospectus in relation to the Debt Securities which has been approved by the competent authority in that Relevant Member State, or where appropriate, approved in another Relevant Member State and notified to the competent authority in that Relevant Member State, all in accordance with the Prospectus Directive, except that it may, with effect from and including the Relevant Implementation Date, make an offer of Debt Securities to the public in that Relevant Member State at any time:
Non-U.S. Offering.
 
 
 
In particular, each Underwriter hereby represents and agrees that:
(a) it has only communicated or caused to be communicated and will only communicate or cause to be communicated an invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity (within the meaning of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (the "FSMA")) received by it in connection with the issue or sale of the Debt Securities in circumstances in which Section 21(1) of the FSMA does not apply to us; and
(b) it has complied and will comply with all applicable provisions of the FSMA with respect to anything done by it in relation to the Debt Securities in, from or otherwise involving the United Kingdom.
For purposes of this Section 5, an "offer of notes to the public" means the communication in any form and by any means of sufficient information on the terms of the offer and the Debt Securities to be offered so as to enable an investor to decide to purchase or subscribe for the Debt Securities, as the same may be varied in that Member State by any measure implementing the Prospectus Directive. The expression "Prospectus Directive" means Directive 2003/71/EC and includes any relevant implementing measure in each Relevant Member State. References to "" are to euros.
6. (a) The reference to "the Registration Statement and the Prospectus" in the first sentence of paragraph (a) of Article V is replaced with "the Registration Statement, Prospectus and Time of Sale Information".
Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations.
(b) In addition to the conditions set forth in Article V of the Standard Provisions (including paragraphs (b) and (c) thereof), the obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Offered Securities will be subject to the condition precedent that the Underwriters shall have received a letter, dated the Closing Date, of each of Chadbourne & Parke LLP, counsel for the Company, and Davis Polk & Wardwell, counsel for the Underwriters, to the effect that:
Such counsel has no reason to believe that the documents specified in a schedule to such counsel's letter, consisting of those included in the Time of Sale Information (as defined in Section 1(h) of this Agreement), as of the Time of Sale (which such counsel may assume is the date of this Agreement) and as of the Closing Date, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
7. References to "the Prospectus" in Article VIII of the Standard Provisions shall be deemed to refer to "each Statutory Prospectus, the Prospectus, the Time of Sale Information and any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus."
Indemnification and Contribution.
8. The Debt Securities will have the terms and conditions set forth in "Description of the Notes" in the prospectus supplement for the Debt Securities dated June 9, 2009, and terms defined therein will have the same meanings when used in this Agreement. The following is a summary of such terms and conditions for the Debt Securities:
Terms and Conditions of Debt Securities.
The Notes shall have the following terms:
 
The Company acknowledges and agrees that the Underwriters are acting solely in the capacity of an arm's length contractual counterparty to the Company with respect to the offering of Offered Securities (including in connection with determining the terms of the offering) and not as a financial advisor or a fiduciary to, or an agent of, the Company or any other person. Additionally, no Underwriter is advising the Company or any other person as to any legal, tax, investment, accounting or regulatory matters in any jurisdiction. The Company shall consult with its own advisors concerning such matters and shall be responsible for making its own independent investigation and appraisal of the transactions contemplated hereby, and the Underwriters shall have no responsibility or liability to the Company with respect thereto. Any review by the Underwriters of the Company, the transactions contemplated hereby or other matters relating to such transactions will be performed solely for the benefit of the Underwriters and shall not be on behalf of the Company.
All of the provisions (other than the provisions of Article VII) contained in the Standard Provisions, are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Agreement to the same extent as if such provisions had been set
forth in full herein. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, in the event of any conflict between the Standard Provisions and this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall control. The term "Manager" as used therein shall mean Barclays Capital Inc., Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and RBS Securities Inc., whose authority thereunder may be exercised by them jointly.
For themselves and on behalf of the several Underwriters named above.
 
 
 
 
A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.
Note:
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement, the related preliminary prospectus supplement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting IDEA on the SEC web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling Barclays Capital Inc. toll free at 1-888-603-5847, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC toll free at is 1-800-221-1037, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. collect at 1-212-834-4533, or RBS Securities Inc. toll free at 1-866-884-2071.
Any disclaimers or other notices that may appear below are not applicable to this communication and should be disregarded. Such disclaimers were automatically generated as a result of this communication being sent via Bloomberg or another email system.
 
June 9, 2009
From time to time, FORTUNE BRANDS, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), may enter into one or more underwriting agreements that provide for the sale of designated securities to the several underwriters named therein. The standard provisions set forth herein may be incorporated by reference in any such underwriting agreement (an "Underwriting Agreement"). The Underwriting Agreement, including the provisions incorporated therein by reference, is herein referred to as this Agreement. Unless otherwise defined herein, terms defined in the Underwriting Agreement are used herein as therein defined.
The Company proposes to issue and sell from time to time certain of (a) its debt securities (the "Debt Securities") to be issued pursuant to the provisions of an Indenture dated as of April 15, 1999, as supplemented (the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon (formerly The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.) as Trustee (the "Trustee") and (b) its Warrants (the "Debt Warrants") to purchase Debt Securities (such Debt Securities to be purchasable through the exercise of Debt Warrants being referred to herein as the "Debt Warrant Securities") to be evidenced by warrant certificates (the "Warrant Certificates") and to be issued pursuant to the provisions of the Debt Warrant Agreement identified in the Underwriting Agreement. The Debt Securities may be convertible into Common Stock, par value $3.125 per share, of the Company ("Common Stock") as provided in or pursuant to the Indenture, and Preferred Share Purchase Rights (the "Rights") may be delivered with Common Stock upon conversion of any convertible Debt Securities. The Debt Securities and Debt Warrants to be sold pursuant to this Agreement, but not the Debt Warrant Securities or the Common Stock or Rights, if any, issuable or deliverable upon conversion of any convertible Debt Securities, are collectively referred to herein as the "Offered Securities". The Debt Securities and Debt Warrants will have or be of varying designations, maturities, rates and times of payment of interest, selling prices, exercise prices, conversion prices, expiration dates, redemption terms, currencies and other terms.
The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") registration statements relating to the Debt Securities and Debt Warrants and the shares of Common Stock and Rights, if any, issuable or deliverable upon conversion of any convertible Debt Securities, has filed such amendments thereto as may have been required to the date of the Underwriting Agreement and has filed with, or mailed for filing to, or shall promptly hereafter file with or mail for filing to, the Commission a prospectus supplement specifically relating to the Offered Securities and the Debt Warrant Securities, if any, pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act of 1933. The term "Registration Statement" means such registration statements as amended to the date of the Underwriting Agreement. The term "Basic Prospectus" means the prospectus included in the Registration Statement relating to the Debt Securities and the Debt Warrants, as updated from time to time. The term "Prospectus" means the Basic Prospectus together
 
with the prospectus supplement specifically relating to the Offered Securities and the Debt Warrant Securities, if any, as filed with, or mailed for filing to, or as shall promptly hereafter be filed with or mailed for filing to, the Commission pursuant to such Rule 424. The term "preliminary prospectus" means a preliminary prospectus supplement specifically relating to the Offered Securities and the Debt Warrant Securities, if any, together with the Basic Prospectus. As used herein, the terms "Registration Statement", "Basic Prospectus", "Prospectus" and "preliminary prospectus" shall include in each case the material, if any, incorporated by reference therein.
The term "Underwriters' Securities" means the Offered Securities to be purchased by the Underwriters herein. The term "Contract Securities" means the Offered Securities, if any, to be purchased pursuant to the delayed delivery contracts referred to below.
If the Prospectus provides for sales of Offered Securities pursuant to delayed delivery contracts, the Company hereby authorizes the Underwriters to solicit offers to purchase Contract Securities on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Prospectus pursuant to delayed delivery contracts substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto ("Delayed Delivery Contracts") but with such changes therein as the Company may authorize or approve. Delayed Delivery Contracts are to be with institutional investors approved by the Company and of the types set forth in the Prospectus. On the Closing Date (as hereinafter defined), the Company will pay the Manager as compensation, for the accounts of the Underwriters, the fee set forth in the Underwriting Agreement in respect of the principal amount and number of Contract Securities. The Underwriters will not have any responsibility in respect of the validity or the performance of Delayed Delivery Contracts.
If the Company executes and delivers Delayed Delivery Contracts with institutional investors, the principal amount and number of Contract Securities shall be deducted from the principal amount and number of Offered Securities to be purchased by the several Underwriters and the aggregate principal amount or number of Offered Securities to be purchased by each Underwriter shall be reduced pro rata in proportion to the principal amount or number, as the case may be, of Offered Securities set forth opposite each Underwriter's name in the Underwriting Agreement, except to the extent that the Manager determines that such reduction shall be otherwise and so advises the Company.
 
The Company is advised by the Manager that the Underwriters propose to make a public offering of their respective portions of the Underwriters' Securities as soon after this Agreement is entered into as in the Manager's judgment is advisable. The terms of the public offering of the Underwriters' Securities are set forth in the Prospectus.
Except as otherwise provided in this Article IV, payment for the Underwriters' Securities shall be made by wire transfer to an account designated by the Company in immediately available funds at the time, on the date and at the place set forth in the Underwriting Agreement, upon delivery to the Manager for the respective accounts of the several Underwriters of the Underwriters' Securities (other than Debt Securities in registered global form) registered in such names and in such denominations as the Manager shall request in writing not less than two full business days prior to the date of delivery and, in the case of Underwriters' Securities that are Debt Securities in registered global form, upon delivery to the Depositary identified in the Underwriting Agreement of a single global Debt Security certificate, registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee thereof, for credit to the respective accounts of the Depositary participants. The time and date of such payment and delivery with respect to the Underwriters' Securities are herein referred to as the Closing Date.
Delivery of any Underwriters' Securities that are (i) Debt Securities in bearer form on the Closing Date shall be initially effected by delivery of a single temporary global Debt Security without coupons (the "Global Debt Security") evidencing the Offered Securities that are Debt Securities in bearer form and (ii) Debt Warrants in bearer form shall be effected only by delivery of a single permanent global Debt Warrant (the "Global Debt Warrant") evidencing the Offered Securities that are Debt Warrants in bearer form, in each case to a common depositary for Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear System ("Euroclear"), and for Clearstream Banking, socit anonyme, Luxembourg ("Clearstream") for credit to the respective accounts at Euroclear or Clearstream of each Underwriter or such other accounts as each Underwriter may direct. Any Global Debt Security or Global Debt Warrant shall be delivered to the Manager not later than the Closing Date, against payment of funds to the Company in the net amount due to the Company for such Global Debt Security or Global Debt Warrant, as the case may be, by the method and in the form set forth herein. The Company shall cause definitive Debt Securities in bearer form to be prepared and delivered in exchange for such Global Debt Security in such manner and at such time as may be provided in or pursuant to the Indenture; , , that the Global Debt Security shall be exchangeable for definitive Debt Securities in bearer form only on or after the date specified for such purpose in the Prospectus. The Offered Debt Warrants shall be evidenced only by a Global Debt Warrant until their expiration.
provided
however
 
The several obligations of the Underwriters hereunder are subject to the following conditions:
 
 
 
 
 
In further consideration of the agreements of the Underwriters contained in this Agreement, the Company covenants as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each of the several Underwriters agrees with the Company that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
If Underwriters' Securities that are Debt Securities are to be distributed through a selling group consisting of banks, brokers or dealers, the Manager agrees that it shall cause each member of such selling group to enter into an agreement that it will comply with this paragraph. Terms used in this paragraph have the meanings given to them by the applicable provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereunder, including the D Rules.
Each of the several Underwriters further agrees with the Company that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
If Underwriters' Securities that are Debt Warrants are to be distributed through a selling group consisting of banks, brokers or dealers, the Manager agrees that it shall cause each member of such selling group to enter into an agreement that it will comply with this paragraph. Terms used in this paragraph have the meanings given to them by the applicable provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereunder, including the D Rules.
The Company represents and warrants to each Underwriter that (i) each document, if any, filed or to be filed pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and incorporated by reference in the Prospectus complied or will comply when so filed in all material respects with such Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, (ii) each part of the registration statement (including the documents incorporated by reference therein), filed with the Commission pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933 relating to the Debt Securities and Debt Warrants when such part became effective, did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, (iii) each preliminary prospectus, if any, filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act of 1933 complied when so filed in all material respects with such Act and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder, (iv) the Registration Statement and the Prospectus comply and, as amended or supplemented, if applicable, will comply in all material respects with the Securities Act of 1933 and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder and (v) the Registration Statement and the Prospectus do not contain and, as amended or supplemented, if applicable, will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; except that these representations and warranties do not apply to (a) statements or omissions in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus based upon information furnished to the Company in writing by any Underwriter expressly for use therein and (b) those parts of the Registration Statement which constitute the Statement of Eligibility under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 on Form T-1 of the Trustee.
The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls such Underwriter within the meaning of either Section 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 or Section 20 of the Securities Exchange Act of
 
1934, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities caused by any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (if used within the period set forth in paragraph (c) of Article VI hereof and as amended or supplemented if the Company shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto), or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities are caused by any such untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission based upon information furnished in writing to the Company by any Underwriter expressly for use therein.
Each Underwriter agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors, its officers who sign the Registration Statement and any person controlling the Company to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to each Underwriter, but only with reference to information relating to such Underwriter furnished in writing by such Underwriter expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus.
In case any proceeding (including any governmental investigation) shall be instituted involving any person in respect of which indemnity may be sought pursuant to either of the two preceding paragraphs, such person (the "indemnified party") shall promptly notify the person against whom such indemnity may be sought (the "indemnifying party") in writing and the indemnifying party, upon request of the indemnified party, shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party and any others the indemnifying party may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and disbursements of such counsel related to such proceeding. In any such proceeding, any indemnified party shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party unless (i) the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have mutually agreed to the retention of such counsel or (ii) the named parties to any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the indemnifying party and the indemnified party and the representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them. It is understood that the indemnifying party shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceedings in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the reasonable fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to local counsel) for all such indemnified parties, and that all such fees shall be reimbursed as they are incurred. Such firm shall be designated in writing by the Manager in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to the second preceding paragraph and by the Company in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to the first preceding paragraph. The indemnifying party shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment.
 
If the indemnification provided for in this Article VIII is unavailable to an indemnified party under the second or third paragraphs hereof or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each indemnifying party, in lieu of indemnifying such indemnified party, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect (i) the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Offered Securities and (ii) the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other in connection with the offering of the Offered Securities shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from the offering of such Offered Securities (before deducting expenses) received by the Company bear to the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters in respect thereof. The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Article VIII were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the considerations referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph. The amount paid or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in the immediately preceding paragraph shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article VIII, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Offered Securities underwritten and distributed to the public by such Underwriter were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act of 1933) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Article VIII are several, in proportion to the respective principal amount or number, as the case may be, of Offered Securities purchased by each of such Underwriters, and not joint.
 
The indemnity and contribution agreements contained in this Article VIII and the representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any termination of this Agreement, (ii) any investigation made by any Underwriter or on behalf of any Underwriter or any person controlling any Underwriter or by or on behalf of the Company, its directors or officers or any person controlling the Company and (iii) acceptance of and payment for any of the Offered Securities.
This Agreement may be terminated in the absolute discretion of the Manager, by notice to the Company, if after the execution and delivery of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date (i) trading generally shall have been suspended or materially limited on the New York Stock Exchange; (ii) trading of any securities issued by the Company shall have been suspended on any exchange or in any over-the-counter market; (iii) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities shall have been declared by federal or New York State authorities; (iv) a material disruption of the settlement or clearance of debt securities in the United States shall occur and continue until at least the business day preceding the Closing Date or (v) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities or any change in financial markets or any calamity or crisis, either within or outside the United States, that, in the reasonable judgment of the Manager, is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offer, sale or delivery of the Offered Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated by this Agreement and the Prospectus.
If any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Underwriters' Securities which it or they have agreed to purchase pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, and the aggregate amount of Underwriters' Securities which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase is not more than one-tenth of the aggregate amount of the Underwriters' Securities, the other Underwriters shall be obligated severally in the proportions which the amounts of Underwriters' Securities set forth opposite their names in the Underwriting Agreement bear to the aggregate amount of Underwriters' Securities set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as the Manager may specify, to purchase the Underwriters' Securities which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase; provided that in no event shall the amount of Underwriters' Securities which any Underwriter has agreed to purchase
 
pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement be increased pursuant to this Article X by an amount in excess of one-ninth of such amount of Underwriters' Securities without the written consent of such Underwriter. If any Underwriter or Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Underwriters' Securities and the aggregate amount of Underwriters' Securities with respect to which such default occurs is more than one-tenth of the aggregate amount of the Underwriters' Securities and arrangements satisfactory to the Manager and the Company for the purchase of such Underwriters' Securities, are not made within 36 hours after such default, this Agreement, or the provisions hereof applicable to the sale and purchase of the Underwriters' Securities, will terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter or of the Company. In any such case either the Manager or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, but in no event for longer than seven days, in order that the required changes, if any, in the Registration Statement and in the Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements may be effected. Any action taken under this paragraph shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under the Underwriting Agreement.
If this Agreement shall be terminated by the Underwriters or any of them, because of any failure or refusal on the part of the Company to comply with the terms or to fulfill any of the conditions of this Agreement, or if for any reason the Company shall be unable to perform its obligations under this Agreement, the Company will reimburse the Underwriters or such Underwriters as have so terminated this Agreement, with respect to themselves, severally, for all out-of-pocket expenses (including the fees and disbursements of their counsel) reasonably incurred by such Underwriters in connection with the Offered Securities.
This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of New York.
 

Exhibit 4
THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (THE "DEPOSITARY") OR A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY. THIS SECURITY IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY (OTHER THAN A TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY) MAY BE MADE EXCEPT IN LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES.
UNLESS THIS GLOBAL SECURITY IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE COMPANY (AS DEFINED HEREIN) OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY SECURITY ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT THEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL IN AS MUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
 
 
FORTUNE BRANDS, INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein referred to as the "Company"), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO. or registered assigns, the principal sum of [] DOLLARS on June 15, 2014, and to pay interest, semiannually on June 15 and December 15 of each year commencing December 15, 2009, on said principal sum at the rate of 6.375% per annum, subject to the adjustment as provided below in this Security, from the June 15 or December 15, as the case may be, next preceding the date of this Security to which interest has been paid, unless the date
hereof is a date to which interest has been paid, in which case from the date of this Security, or unless no interest has been paid on the Securities, in which case from June 12, 2009, until payment of said principal sum has been made or duly provided for. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the date hereof is after a June 1 or December 1, as the case may be, and before the following June 15 or December 15, this Security shall bear interest from such June 15 or December 15; provided, however, that if the Company shall default in the payment of interest due on such June 15 or December 15 then this Security shall bear interest from the next preceding June 15 or December 15 to which interest has been paid, or, if no interest has been paid on the Securities, from June 12, 2009. The interest so payable on any June 15 or December 15 will, subject to certain exceptions provided in the Indenture (the "Indenture") dated as of April 15, 1999, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon (formerly The Chase Manhattan Bank), as Trustee (the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture with respect to the Securities of this series), be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the June 1 or December 1, as the case may be, next preceding such June 15 or December 15. The principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security are payable at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided that interest may be paid, at the option of the Company, by check mailed to the Person entitled thereto at its address on the Security Register. Any interest not punctually paid or duly provided for shall be payable as provided in said Indenture.
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of Securities of the Company designated as its 6.375% Notes due 2014 (Securities of such series being hereinafter called the "Securities"), initially issued in an aggregate principal amount of $500,000,000 (but subject to additional issuances from time to time), issued and to be issued under the Indenture, to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.
Except as otherwise provided in the Indenture, this Security will be issued in global form only registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee. This Security will not be issued in definitive form, except as otherwise provided in the Indenture, and ownership of this Security shall be maintained in book-entry form by the Depositary for the accounts of participating organizations of the Depositary.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin and currency, herein prescribed.
 
Optional Redemption
The Securities will be redeemable in whole at any time or in part from time to time, at the Company's option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities then outstanding to be redeemed or (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Securities to be redeemed (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the date of redemption on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the applicable Treasury Rate plus 50 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to the redemption date.
The Company will mail a notice of redemption to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed by first-class mail at least 30 and not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for redemption. Unless the Company defaults on the payment of the redemption price, interest will cease to accrue on the Securities or portions thereof called for redemption on the redemption date. If fewer than all of the Securities are to be redeemed, the Trustee will select, not more than 60 days prior to the redemption date, the particular Securities or portions thereof for redemption from the Outstanding Securities not previously called by such method as the Trustee deems fair and appropriate.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the U.S. Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term ("remaining life") of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Securities.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means (1) the average of five Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
"Independent Investment Banker" means either Barclays Capital Inc., Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. or RBS Securities Inc., as specified by the Company, or, if any of these firms are unwilling or unable to select the Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means (1) Barclays Capital Inc., Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and RBS Securities Inc. and their respective successors, provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New York City (a "primary treasury dealer"), the Company will substitute therefor another primary treasury dealer and (2) any other primary treasury dealer selected by the Company after consultation with the Independent Investment Banker.
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date: (i) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded U.S. Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the remaining life (as defined below), yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue will be determined and the Treasury Rate will be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month) or (ii) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
The Treasury Rate will be calculated by the Independent Investment Banker on the third business day preceding the date fixed for redemption.
Change of Control Triggering Event
If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs with respect to the Securities, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem the Securities as described above, the Company will be required to make an offer (a "Change of Control Offer") to each holder of the Securities with respect to which a Change of Control Triggering Event has occurred to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or any multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that holder's Securities on the terms set forth herein. In a Change of Control Offer, the Company will be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Securities repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Securities repurchased to the date of repurchase (a "Change of Control Payment").
Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, a notice will be mailed to holders of the Securities describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Securities on the date specified in the applicable notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (a "Change of Control Payment Date"). The notice will, if mailed
 
prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the applicable Change of Control Payment Date.
Upon the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
 
 
 
The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and the third party repurchases all Securities properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer. In addition, the Company will not repurchase any Securities if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default under the Indenture, other than a default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
The Company will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Securities, the Company will comply with those securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Securities by virtue of any such conflict.
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any person, other than the Company or one of its subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or
 
indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or other Voting Stock into which the Company's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (3) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any person, or any person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or the Voting Stock of such other person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving person or any direct or indirect parent company of the surviving person, immediately after giving effect to such transaction; (4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors; or (5) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (i) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (ii)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no person (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company. The term "person," as used in this definition, has the meaning given thereto in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
"Change of Control Triggering Event" with respect to the Securities means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event with respect to the Securities.
"Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Securities were issued or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
"Fitch" means Fitch Inc., and its successors.
"Index Debt" means senior, unsecured, long-term indebtedness for borrowed money of the Company that is not guaranteed by any other person or subject to any other credit enhancement.
"Investment Grade Rating" means a rating on the Index Debt equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and a rating equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P, and a rating equal to or higher than the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement rating agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
 
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., and its successors.
"Rating Agencies" means (1) each of Fitch, Moody's and S&P and (2) if any of Fitch, Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Securities or fails to make a rating of the Securities publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a Substitute Rating Agency as a replacement agency for any of Fitch, Moody's or S&P, or all of them, as the case may be.
"Rating Event" means the rating on the Securities is lowered by each of the Rating Agencies then rating the Securities and the Securities are rated below an investment grade rating by each of the Rating Agencies then rating the Securities on any day within the 60-day period (which 60-day period will be extended so long as the rating of the Securities is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies then rating the Securities) after the earlier of (a) the occurrence of a Change of Control and (b) public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or our intention to effect a Change of Control; provided that a rating event will not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus will not be deemed a rating event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control triggering event) if each rating agency making the reduction in rating does not publicly announce or confirm or inform the trustee in writing at our request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control has occurred at the time of the rating event).
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
"Substitute Rating Agency" means a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Company's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for any one or more of the Rating Agencies.
"Voting Stock" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Interest Rate Adjustment
The interest rate payable on the Securities will be subject to adjustment from time to time if either Moody's or S&P or, in either case, any Substitute Rating Agency downgrades (or downgrades and subsequently upgrades) the debt rating assigned to the Company's Index Debt, in the manner described below.
 
If the rating of the Index Debt from Moody's (or any Substitute Rating Agency) of the Index Debt is decreased to a rating set forth in the immediately following table, the interest rate on the Securities will increase from the interest rate payable on the Securities on the date of their initial issuance by the percentage points set forth below opposite that rating:
 
 
If the rating from S&P (or any Substitute Rating Agency) of the Index Debt is decreased to a rating set forth in the immediately following table, the interest rate on the Securities will increase from the interest rate payable on the Securities on the date of their initial issuance by the percentage points set forth below opposite that rating:
 
 
If at any time the interest rate on the Securities has been adjusted upward as a result of a decrease in a rating of the Company's Index Debt by either Moody's or S&P (or, in either case, a Substitute Rating Agency), as the case may be, and subsequently such rating agency increases its rating of the Index Debt to any of the threshold ratings set forth above, the interest rate on the Securities will be decreased such that the interest rate for the Securities equals the interest rate payable on the Securities on the date of their initial issuance plus the applicable percentage points set forth opposite the ratings in the tables above in effect immediately following the increase. If Moody's (or any Substitute Rating Agency) decreases and subsequently increases its rating of the Index Debt to Baa3 (or its equivalent, in the case of a Substitute Rating Agency) or higher, and S&P (or any Substitute Rating Agency thereof) decreases and subsequently increases its rating of the Index Debt to BBB- (or its equivalent, in the case of a Substitute Rating Agency) or higher, the interest rate on the Securities will be decreased to the interest rate payable on the Securities
 
on the date of their issuance. In addition, the interest rates on the Securities will permanently cease to be subject to any adjustment described above (notwithstanding any subsequent decrease in the ratings by either or both Rating Agencies) if the Index Debt become A3 and A- (or the equivalent of either such rating, in the case of a Substitute Rating Agency) or higher by Moody's and S&P (or, in either case, a Substitute Rating Agency thereof), respectively (or one of these ratings if the Index Debt are only rated by one rating agency).
Each adjustment required by any decrease or increase in a rating set forth above, whether occasioned by the action of Moody's or S&P (or, in either case, a Substitute Rating Agency), shall be made independent of (and in addition to) any and all other adjustments. In no event shall (1) the interest rate for the Securities be reduced to below the interest rate payable on the Securities on the date of their issuance or (2) the total increase in the interest rate on the Securities exceed 2.00% above the interest rate payable on the Securities on the date of their issuance.
No adjustments in the interest rate of the Securities shall be made solely as a result of a rating agency ceasing to provide a rating of the Index Debt. If at any time Moody's or S&P ceases to provide a rating of the Index Debt for a reason beyond the Company's control, the Company will use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain a rating of the Index Debt from a Substitute Rating Agency, to the extent one exists, and if a Substitute Rating Agency exists, for purposes of determining any increase or decrease in the interest rate on the Securities pursuant to the tables above:
 
 
 
 
For so long as only one of Moody's or S&P provides a rating of the Index Debt and no Substitute Rating Agency is offered to replace the other rating agency, any subsequent increase or decrease in the interest rate of the Securities necessitated by a reduction or increase in the rating by the agency providing the rating shall be twice the percentage set forth in the applicable table above. For so long as none of Moody's, S&P or a Substitute Rating Agency provides a rating of the Index Debt, the interest rate on the Securities will increase to, or remain at, as the case may be, 2.00% above the interest rate payable on the Securities on the date of their issuance. If Moody's or S&P either ceases to rate the Index Debt for reasons within the Company's control or ceases to make a rating of the Index Debt publicly available for reasons within the Company's control, the Company will not be entitled to obtain a rating from a Substitute Rating Agency and the increase or decrease in the interest rate of the Securities shall be determined in the manner described above as if either only one or no rating agency provides a rating of the Index Debt, as the case may be.
Any interest rate increase or decrease described above will take effect on the next business day after the rating change has occurred.
If the interest rate payable on the Securities is increased as described above, the term "interest," as used with respect to the Securities, will be deemed to include any such additional interest unless the context otherwise requires.
Other Indenture Provisions
Section 4.03 (including subparagraph (4) thereof and clause (B), but not clause (A), of such subparagraph) and Section 10.10 (including subparagraph (5) thereof) of the Indenture contain provisions applicable to this Security that provide for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and certain Events of Default upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, this Security may be registered for transfer on the Security Register of the Company, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company, the Trustee and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the registered Holder hereof or its attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Company may, from time to time, without notice to or the consent of the Holders of the Securities, increase the aggregate principal amount of the Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture and issue such increased principal amount (or any portion thereof), in which case any additional Securities so issued will have the same form and terms (other than the date of issuance and, under certain circumstances, the date from which interest thereon will begin to accrue), and will carry the same right to receive principal and accrued and unpaid interest, as the Securities previously issued, and such additional Securities will form a single series with the Securities.
 
The Securities are issuable only as Registered Securities in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture, and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Registered Securities of different authorized denominations, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge will be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
The Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company or the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
If an Event of Default, as defined in the Indenture, with respect to the Securities shall occur, the principal of all the Securities may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities under the Indenture at any time by the Company with the consent of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then Outstanding Securities of this series and of each other series issued under the Indenture and affected by such amendment or modification. The Indenture also permits the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities, to waive certain past defaults under the Indenture with respect to the Securities and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver shall be conclusive and binding upon the Holder of this Security and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof whether or not a notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of or the interest on this Security, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect hereof, or based on or in respect of the Indenture or any indenture supplemental thereto, against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any successor Person, either directly or through the Company, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issue hereof, expressly waived and released.
 
Except as otherwise defined herein, all terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
This Security shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of New York and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of said State.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee by the manual signature of one of its authorized officers, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under said Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated:             , 2009
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 


