FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20091023084524.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
October 23, 2009
Fortune Brands, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
(Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)
520 Lake Cook Road
Deerfield, IL  60015
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
847-484-4400
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN THE REPORT
Item 2.02.          Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Pursuant to Form 8-K, Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure, Fortune Brands, Inc. (Fortune Brands or the Company) is furnishing its press release dated October 23, 2009, which reports the Companys third quarter results, as well as earnings guidance for 2009.  The press release is included herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.  Pursuant to general instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
Item 2.05.          Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
Fortune Brands continuously reviews opportunities to appropriately align its cost structures to support profitable long-term growth. During September and October 2009, the Company initiated or approved a number of additional restructuring actions.  
As a result, the Company expects to incur pre-tax restructuring and restructuring-related charges of approximately $40 million (approximately $25 million on an after-tax basis). These charges are related to initiatives within the Companys Spirits and Home & Hardware segments.  Approximately $5 million of the pre-tax charges will be non-cash.  The Company expects that the costs associated with these initiatives will result in savings that have a payback of 3 years or less.
The restructuring actions in the Spirits segment of approximately $30 million relate to organizational initiatives initiated in the fourth quarter of 2009 to align the business closer to customers and consumers, enhance effectiveness and efficiency across functions, and generate savings to support brand reinvestment and profitable growth.  The pre-tax charges are expected to consist of approximately $20-$25 million for workforce reduction costs and $5-$10 million for costs associated with establishing and implementing the new organization structure, which includes alignment of the U.S. commercial organization into three focused category business teams, aligning the U.S. sales organization by distributor, merging two European regions into one, and organizational streamlining across functions.  Restructuring actions in the Home and Hardware segment of approximately $10 million pertain to further supply chain initiatives initiated in the third quarter of 2009 in our Cabinets product line and the merging of our Fypon urethane millwork brand into our Therma-Tru door operations.  Home and Hardware segment charges include approximately $4 million for non-cash charges to dispose of equipment and inventory associated with products that will be discontinued and $5-6 million of cash costs for workforce reduction, lease terminations, and other costs associated with exiting manufacturing operations.  Approximately $4 million of these charges were incurred in the third quarter of 2009.  These restructuring activities commenced in the third quarter and fourth quarter of 2009 and are expected to be completed in 2010.  
The estimates of restructuring charges and restructuring-related charges are forward looking statements, as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties and that actual results could differ from the estimates contained herein. These forward looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the Company does not assume any obligation to update, amend or clarify them to reflect events, new information or circumstances occurring after the date of this Report, except to the extent required by securities laws.
Item 7.01.          Regulation FD Disclosure.
See Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition above.
Item 9.01.          Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
Fortune Brands Reports Third Quarter Results
Each Business Unit Performs At or Above Companys Expectations
Company Benefiting from Successful New Products, Cost Containment and Cash Enhancement Initiatives
Raising Bottom End of Full-Year Earnings Target Range
DEERFIELD, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--October 23, 2009--Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO), the company behind leading consumer brands including Jim Beam, Titleist and Moen, today reported results for the third quarter of 2009. Net sales for the third quarter were $1.72 billion, down 11%, reflecting flat sales for the companys spirits business, and more moderate revenue decreases for the golf and home products brands. Diluted earnings per share were $0.82, and excluding one-time items, diluted EPS before charges/gains was $0.77.
Given its third-quarter performance and signs of stabilization in the U.S. new-home construction market, the company raised the bottom end of its full-year earnings target range. The company is now targeting to deliver EPS before charges/gains for 2009 of $2.10-2.30 versus its previous target of $2.00-2.30.
Despite the challenges of the global economy and the overall U.S. housing market, Fortune Brands continued to deliver results and operating margins at the forefront of our categories, said Bruce Carbonari, chairman and chief executive officer of Fortune Brands. Each of our businesses performed at or above our expectations in the quarter.
Consumers are clearly remaining cautious, but our innovative new-product programs, trusted brands and compelling value propositions are helping us compete successfully in the marketplace, Carbonari continued. In the third quarter, we also remained focused on our successful initiatives to reduce cost structures, improve global supply chains and enhance our cash position. These initiatives are benefiting Fortune Brands and helping position the company for future growth.
Spirits sales were flat in the quarter, benefiting from higher sales of Jim Beam bourbon and Canadian Club whisky, the Cruzan acquisition, and strong growth in emerging markets, offset by soft results in other international markets, Carbonari added. The companys spirits revenues also benefited from previously disclosed required accounting for the companys route-to-market initiatives, largely offset by unfavorable foreign exchange. Amidst signs the U.S. housing downturn is decelerating, our share-gain initiatives across product categories helped sales in our home products business decline at a more moderate pace than in the prior two quarters. And in golf, we outperformed the industry with successful new products and double-digit constant-currency sales gains in Europe and Korea that partly offset a double-digit decrease in the United States, said Carbonari. Notable new products contributing to the companys results included the first full quarter of Red Stag by Jim Beam, eco-friendly Moen faucets, energy-efficient Simonton windows, innovative Master Lock products, the new Titleist Pro V1 family of golf balls, and the Titleist 909 series of drivers, fairways and hybrid clubs.
Operating income in the spirits business reflected the impact of previously disclosed costs associated with the companys route-to-market initiatives. In both the home products and golf segments, operating income reflected adverse operating leverage, tempered by the impact of lower cost structures in these businesses.
For the third quarter of 2009
:
Net income was $124.1 million, or $0.82 per diluted share, compared to $2.21 per diluted share in the year-ago quarter.
Comparisons were adversely impacted by a net gain, including discontinued operations, of $1.10 per diluted share in the year-ago quarter that more than offset a net gain of $0.05 per share in the current period.
Excluding one-time items in both the current and prior-year periods, diluted EPS before charges/gains was $0.77 compared to $1.11 in the year-ago quarter.
Foreign exchange adversely impacted EPS by $0.07 per share.
Net sales were $1.72 billion, down 11%.
On a comparable basis  excluding excise taxes, foreign exchange, acquisitions/divestitures, and the impact of required accounting related to spirits route-to-market initiatives  total net sales would have remained down 11%.
Comparable net sales by business unit were: spirits down 4%; golf down 7%; home & hardware down 17%.
Operating income was $204.5 million.
Operating income before charges/gains was $212.6 million.
Return on equity before charges/gains was 7%.
Return on invested capital before charges/gains was 5%.
Raising Low End of Earnings Target & Reaffirming Free Cash Flow Target
Looking to the balance of 2009, we now believe EPS before charges/gains will be in the range of $2.10-2.30 for 2009, as compared to our previous target of $2.00-2.30, Carbonari continued. While we are encouraged by the continued stability of our spirits business and signs of stabilization in new-home construction, we anticipate that consumers will remain cautious in the months ahead, and that the overall home products market  particularly for big-ticket remodeling purchases  will continue to be challenging into 2010. In addition, our fourth quarter results will also reflect the impact of adverse operating leverage in the seasonally small quarter for golf and home products, as well as a double-digit year-over-year boost in brand investment behind key spirits brands.
The company also reaffirmed its 2009 target to generate free cash flow in the range of $400 million after dividends and net capital expenditures. Benefiting from factors including its free-cash-flow initiatives and bond issuance in June, the company is now in an undrawn position on its existing revolving credit facility and remains in a strong liquidity position.
About Fortune Brands
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a leading consumer brands company. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in distilled spirits, home and hardware, and golf products. Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. is the company's premium spirits business. Major spirits brands include Jim Beam and Maker's Mark bourbon, Sauza tequila, Canadian Club whisky, Courvoisier cognac, Cruzan rum, Teacher's and Laphroaig Scotch, EFFEN vodka and DeKuyper cordials. Home and hardware brands include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Omega, Diamond and Kitchen Craft cabinetry, Therma-Tru door systems, Simonton windows, Master Lock security products and Waterloo storage and organization products sold by units of Fortune Brands Home & Hardware LLC. Acushnet Company's golf brands include Titleist, Cobra and FootJoy. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index and the MSCI World Index.
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit .
www.fortunebrands.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the company does not assume any obligation to update, amend or clarify them to reflect events, new information or circumstances occurring after the date of this release. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to: general economic conditions, including the U.S. housing and remodeling market; competitive market pressures (including pricing pressures); customer defaults and related bad debt expense; consolidation of trade customers; successful development of new products and processes; ability to secure and maintain rights to intellectual property; risks pertaining to strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, including the potential financial effects and performance of such acquisitions or joint ventures, and integration of acquisitions and the related confirmation or remediation of internal controls over financial reporting; changes related to the companys spirits business organization, including its U.S. and international distribution structure; ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; weather; risks associated with doing business outside the United States, including currency exchange rate risks; commodity and energy price volatility; costs of certain employee and retiree benefits and returns on pension assets; dependence on performance of distributors and other marketing arrangements; the impact of excise tax increases on distilled spirits; changes in golf equipment regulatory standards and other regulatory developments; potential liabilities, costs and uncertainties of litigation; impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles; historical consolidated financial statements that may not be indicative of future conditions and results; interest rate fluctuations; volatility of financial and credit markets, which could affect access to capital for the company, its customers and consumers; any possible downgrades of the companys credit ratings; as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release includes measures not derived in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), such as diluted earnings per share before charges/gains, operating income before charges/gains, comparable net sales, return on equity before charges/gains, return on invested capital before charges/gains, and free cash flow. These measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for any measure derived in accordance with GAAP, and may also be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies. Reconciliation of these measures to the most closely comparable GAAP measures, and reasons for the companys use of these measures, are presented in the attached pages.
CONTACT:
Fortune Brands, Inc.
Media Relations:
Clarkson Hine
(847) 484-4415
or
Investor Relations:
Tony Diaz
(847) 484-4410


