FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20090724082748.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
 
July 24, 2009
Fortune Brands, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
(Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)
520 Lake Cook Road
Deerfield, IL  60015
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
847-484-4400
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN THE REPORT
Item 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Pursuant to Form 8-K, Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure, Fortune Brands, Inc. (Fortune Brands or the Company) is furnishing its press release dated July 24, 2009, which reports the Registrants second quarter results, as well as earnings guidance for 2009.  The press release is included herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.  Pursuant to general instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
Item 7.01.     Regulation FD Disclosure.
See Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition above.
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
Fortune Brands Reports Second Quarter Results
Stability of Spirits Business Tempers Impact of Recession on Home and Golf Products
Each Business Unit Performs in Line with Company Expectations
New Products and Lower Cost Structures Benefit Results
DEERFIELD, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--July 24, 2009--Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO), the company behind leading consumer brands including Jim Beam, Titleist and Moen, today reported results for the second quarter of 2009. In an economic environment that remained very challenging, net sales and operating income before charges/gains both declined at a more moderate pace than in the prior quarter. Net sales for the second quarter were $1.74 billion, down 17%, as the stability of the spirits business tempered double-digit sales declines for the companys home and golf products. Reflecting the benefit of lower cost structures, supply-chain initiatives and seasonality, the home products business returned to profitability as expected. Diluted earnings per share were $0.66, and excluding one-time items, diluted EPS before charges/gains was $0.70. The stronger U.S. dollar reduced both sales and operating income before charges by 4% and decreased earnings by 5 cents per diluted share.
Fortune Brands continued to effectively navigate the challenges of the global recession and severe U.S. housing downturn in the second quarter, said Bruce Carbonari, chairman and chief executive officer of Fortune Brands. At a time when consumers are being very cautious, were pleased that each of our businesses performed in line with our expectations for the quarter and that each is delivering industry-leading operating margins. While we continue to aggressively manage costs, weve carefully maintained an appropriate level of strategic investment, which is paying off in innovative new products that are helping us succeed in the marketplace. Were also confident that our supply-chain and balance-sheet initiatives position us well to emerge from the downturn an even stronger company.
Our spirits business benefited in the quarter from our breadth across categories and price points, higher pricing, and the return to volume growth for Jim Beam ready-to-drink products in Australia. Results in spirits also reflected the success of new products such as Red Stag by Jim Beam and Sauza Margarita-in-a-Box, as well as management and timing of brand expense. As anticipated, our home products business returned to profitability in the second quarter and sales declined at a more moderate pace as compared to the seasonally smaller first quarter. Despite lower year-over-year results, our home products business benefited from its dramatically lower cost structure, share gains with key customers, new products, and the favorable impact of the consumer tax credit for energy-efficient products. While were seeing significantly lower discretionary spending on golf in the U.S. and Europe, including for corporate custom-imprinted golf balls, our golf business is sustaining its leadership in this environment with successful new products  including the new Titleist Pro V1 golf ball, 909 drivers and AP2 irons  plus continued success in Asian markets, Carbonari said.
For the second quarter of 2009
:
Net income was $99.8 million, or $0.66 per diluted share, compared to $0.88 per diluted share in the year-ago quarter.
Comparisons were adversely impacted by income from discontinued operations in the prior-year period that more than offset lower net charges in the current-year period.
Excluding one-time items in both the current and prior-year periods, diluted EPS before charges/gains was $0.70 compared to $1.25 in the year-ago quarter.
Results benefited 4 cents per diluted share from a lower effective tax rate due to a shift in geographic profit mix.
Net sales were $1.74 billion, down 17%.
On a comparable basis  excluding excise taxes, foreign exchange, acquisitions/divestitures, and the impact of required accounting related to spirits route-to-market initiatives  total net sales would have been down 15%.
Comparable net sales by business unit were: spirits flat; golf down 14%; home & hardware down 23%.
Operating income was $192.9 million.
Operating income before charges/gains was $203.9 million.
Return on equity before charges/gains was 8%.
Return on invested capital before charges/gains was 6%.
Targeting Full-Year Results within EPS Range
As we look ahead, while the economic downturn may be moderating, we expect our markets will remain challenging throughout the year, Carbonari said. In this environment, well keep executing the initiatives that are enabling us to succeed in the marketplace and positioning Fortune Brands for strong growth when the economy recovers. These priority initiatives include adjusting to the evolving consumer, developing innovative new products and brand-building programs, reducing cost structures while enhancing our supply-chain flexibility, and aggressively managing our cash. We expect that we will continue to benefit from our ability to deliver value to consumers with our trusted brands, quality products, innovations and excellent positions up and down the price ladder across our businesses.
Our first-half results and our ongoing initiatives enhance our confidence in achieving full-year results within our EPS target range. With six months now behind us  and a clearer picture of our markets  were in a position to refine our full-year EPS target. Because the high end of our range was dependent on some measure of improvement in our markets  and because conditions in the home and golf products markets remain as challenging as they are  were now targeting EPS before charges/gains to be in the range of $2.00-2.30 for the full year. This full-year target, which is within our original guidance, continues to reflect our assumption that results in our home products and golf segments will be lower, partly offset by underlying growth in our spirits business, which now represents more than 70% of our operating income before charges, Carbonari concluded. The companys growth rates in the second half will also benefit from comparison to last years progressively soft results, predominantly in the fourth quarter.
The company also reaffirmed its expectation to generate free cash flow for 2009 in the range of $400 million after dividends and net capital expenditures.
About Fortune Brands
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a leading consumer brands company. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in distilled spirits, home and hardware, and golf products. Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. is the company's premium spirits business. Major spirits brands include Jim Beam and Maker's Mark bourbon, Sauza tequila, Canadian Club whisky, Courvoisier cognac, Cruzan rum, Teacher's and Laphroaig Scotch, EFFEN vodka and DeKuyper cordials. Home and hardware brands include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Omega, Diamond and Kitchen Craft cabinetry, Therma-Tru door systems, Simonton windows, Master Lock security products and Waterloo storage and organization products sold by units of Fortune Brands Home & Hardware LLC. Acushnet Company's golf brands include Titleist, Cobra and FootJoy. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index and the MSCI World Index.
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit .
www.fortunebrands.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the company does not assume any obligation to update, amend or clarify them to reflect events, new information or circumstances occurring after the date of this release. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to: general economic conditions, including the U.S. housing market; competitive market pressures (including pricing pressures); customer defaults and related bad debt expense; consolidation of trade customers; successful development of new products and processes; ability to secure and maintain rights to intellectual property; risks pertaining to strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, including the potential financial effects and performance of such acquisitions or joint ventures, and integration of acquisitions and the related confirmation or remediation of internal controls over financial reporting; changes related to the U.S. and international distribution structure in the companys spirits business; ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; weather; risks associated with doing business outside the United States, including currency exchange rate risks; commodity and energy price volatility; costs of certain employee and retiree benefits and returns on pension assets; dependence on performance of distributors and other marketing arrangements; the impact of excise tax increases on distilled spirits; changes in golf equipment regulatory standards and other regulatory developments; potential liabilities, costs and uncertainties of litigation; impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles; historical consolidated financial statements that may not be indicative of future conditions and results; interest rate fluctuations; volatility of financial and credit markets, which could affect access to capital for the company, its customers and consumers; any possible downgrades of the companys credit ratings; as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release includes measures not derived in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), such as diluted earnings per share before charges/gains, operating income before charges/gains, comparable net sales, return on equity before charges/gains, return on invested capital before charges/gains, and free cash flow. These measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for any measure derived in accordance with GAAP, and may also be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies. Reconciliation of these measures to the most closely comparable GAAP measures, and reasons for the companys use of these measures, are presented in the attached pages.
CONTACT:
Fortune Brands, Inc.
Media Relations:
Clarkson Hine
(847) 484-4415
or
Investor Relations:
Tony Diaz
(847) 484-4410


