FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20090428073841.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
April 28, 2009
Fortune Brands, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
(Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)
520 Lake Cook Road
Deerfield, IL  60015
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
847-484-4400
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN THE REPORT
Item 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Pursuant to Form 8-K, Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure, Fortune Brands, Inc. (Fortune Brands or the Company) is furnishing its press release dated April 28, 2009, which announces the Companys anticipated first quarter 2009 earnings per share, reaffirms earnings guidance for 2009, increases free cash flow guidance for 2009 and announces action with respect to the dividend.  The press release is included herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.  Pursuant to general instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
Item 7.01.     Regulation FD Disclosure.
See Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition above.
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
Fortune Brands Announces Expectation for First Quarter EPS, Increase in Free Cash Flow Target and Action on Dividend
Each Business Performed At or Above Companys Expectations; Company Reaffirms Full-Year Earnings Target
Increases 2009 Target for Free Cash Flow from Range of $100-200 Million to Range of $400 Million
Enhances Financial Flexibility with Proactive Cash-Management Initiatives and Reduction in Dividend Rate
DEERFIELD, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--April 28, 2009--Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE:FO), the company behind leading consumer brands including Jim Beam, Titleist and Moen, today announced its expectation for first quarter 2009 results, which it will report on Friday, May 1.
In advance of its annual meeting of shareholders today, the company announced that it anticipates reporting diluted earnings per share for the quarter of approximately $0.05, and excluding one-time items, EPS before charges/gains in the range of $0.30.
Each of our businesses performed at or above our expectations in navigating what we expected to be the most difficult quarter of the year, said Bruce Carbonari, chairman and chief executive officer of Fortune Brands. While economic conditions and the consumer environment remain challenging, our first quarter results reinforce our confidence in achieving our full-year earnings target of diluted EPS before charges/gains to be in the range of $2.00-2.50.
Cash-Management Initiatives & Dividend Reduction Enhance Financial Flexibility
The company also announced a series of initiatives designed to increase free cash flow, thereby strengthening its balance sheet and enhancing its ability to pay down debt and capitalize on potential value-creating opportunities. As a result of these initiatives, the company boosted its 2009 target for free cash flow from the range of $100-200 million to the range of $400 million, after dividends and capital expenditures.
As we position Fortune Brands to create value in this challenging economy and beyond, one of the undeniable truths of the current economic environment is that cash is king, Carbonari continued. Enhancing financial flexibility in this climate is a strategic imperative that increases our ability to create value for shareholders.
Weve taken a proactive approach to cash management in two important ways, said Carbonari. First, were sharpening our focus on cash flow generation across all of our businesses, targeting an additional $125 million of free cash this year by further tightening capital expenditures and enhancing our use of working capital.
Second, our board of directors has approved a reduction in the dividend to an annual rate of $0.76 per share  payable 19 cents per quarter  enabling Fortune Brands to retain an additional $150 million on an annualized basis, which represents $110 million over the balance of 2009. This change results in a current payout ratio in the range of 30-38% based on our 2009 earnings target range. This is not an action we took lightly. However, we believe aligning our dividend with our historical payout ratio is a prudent course of action in the current environment and is in the best long-term interest of our shareholders. I also want to underscore that we remain committed to a meaningful dividend, and we look forward to building on it in the future, Carbonari concluded.
Company Declares Dividend
Upon determining the new dividend rate, the board declared a regular dividend of 19 cents per share on the Common Stock, payable in cash on June 1, 2009 to stockholders of record at the close of business May 13, 2009.
The company also declared a regular dividend of 66.75 cents per share on the $2.67 Convertible Preferred Stock, payable in cash on June 10, 2009 to stockholders of record at the close of business May 13, 2009.
The company will report complete results for the first quarter of 2009 on the morning of Friday, May 1.
st
About Fortune Brands
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a leading consumer brands company. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in distilled spirits, home and hardware, and golf products. Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. is the companys premium spirits business. Major spirits brands include Jim Beam and Makers Mark bourbon, Sauza tequila, Canadian Club whisky, Courvoisier cognac, Cruzan rum, Teachers and Laphroaig Scotch, and DeKuyper cordials. Home and hardware brands include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Omega, Diamond and Kitchen Craft cabinetry, Therma-Tru door systems, Simonton windows, Master Lock security products and Waterloo tool storage sold by units of Fortune Brands Home & Hardware LLC. Acushnet Companys golf brands include Titleist, Cobra and FootJoy. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index and the MSCI World Index.
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit .
www.fortunebrands.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the company does not assume any obligation to update, amend or clarify them to reflect events, new information or circumstances occurring after the date of this release. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to: general economic conditions, including the U.S. housing market; competitive market pressures (including pricing pressures); consolidation of trade customers; successful development of new products and processes; ability to secure and maintain rights to intellectual property; risks pertaining to strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, including the potential financial effects and performance of such acquisitions or joint ventures, and integration of acquisitions and the related confirmation or remediation of internal controls over financial reporting; changes related to the U.S. and international distribution structure in the companys spirits business; ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; weather; risks associated with doing business outside the United States, including currency exchange rate risks; commodity and energy price volatility; costs of certain employee and retiree benefits and returns on pension assets; dependence on performance of distributors and other marketing arrangements; the impact of excise tax increases on distilled spirits; changes in golf equipment regulatory standards and other regulatory developments; potential liabilities, costs and uncertainties of litigation; impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles; historical consolidated financial statements that may not be indicative of future conditions and results; interest rate fluctuations; volatility of financial and credit markets, which could affect access to capital for the company, its customers and consumers; any possible downgrades of the companys credit ratings; as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release includes measures not derived in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), such as diluted earnings per share before charges/gains and free cash flow. These measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for any measure derived in accordance with GAAP, and may also be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies. Reconciliation of these measures to the most closely comparable GAAP measures, and reasons for the companys use of these measures, are presented in the attached pages.
CONTACT:
Fortune Brands, Inc.
Media Relations:
Clarkson Hine
(847) 484-4415
or
Investor Relations:
Tony Diaz
(847) 484-4410


