FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20090501075640.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
May 1, 2009
Fortune Brands, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
(Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)
520 Lake Cook Road
Deerfield, IL  60015
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
847-484-4400
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN THE REPORT
Item 2.02.           Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 Pursuant to Form 8-K, Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure, Fortune Brands, Inc. (Fortune Brands or the Company) is furnishing its press release dated May 1, 2009, which reports the Registrants first quarter results, as well as earnings guidance for 2009.  The press release is included herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.  Pursuant to general instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
Item 7.01.           Regulation FD Disclosure.
 See Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition above.
Item 9.01.           Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
Fortune Brands Reports First Quarter Results
DEERFIELD, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--May 1, 2009--
Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO):
Stability of Spirits Business and Lower Cost Structures Temper Impact of Challenging Economic Conditions
All Three Businesses Performed At or Above Companys Expectations
First Quarter Results and Ongoing Initiatives Reinforce Companys Confidence in Achieving Full-Year EPS Target
Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO), the company behind leading consumer brands including Jim Beam, Titleist and Moen, today reported results for the first quarter of 2009. Reflecting the impact of the challenging economic environment and adverse foreign exchange, net sales were $1.44 billion, down 20%. Diluted earnings per share were $0.05, impacted by factors including the lower sales, adverse foreign exchange, negative operating leverage in the seasonally smallest quarter for home products, and charges for supply-chain initiatives. Excluding one-time items, EPS before charges/gains was $0.30 as higher operating income before charges in the spirits business and lower cost structures tempered the impact of the sustained U.S. housing downturn and the global recession.
Against the headwinds of the global recession, the severe U.S. housing downturn and reduced consumer discretionary spending, each of Fortune Brands businesses performed at or above our expectations in the first quarter, said Bruce Carbonari, chairman and chief executive officer of Fortune Brands.
Fortune Brands continued to pursue initiatives to succeed in the marketplace, significantly reduce costs and enhance our free cash flow, Carbonari continued. Profits in our spirits business benefited from stable consumer demand, higher pricing and favorable year-over-year U.S. inventory movements, largely offset by soft results internationally, including the ongoing impact of the Australia RTD tax increase and unfavorable foreign exchange. To combat negative operating leverage in our home products business driven by lower demand and unfavorable product mix, we further reduced the manufacturing footprint for home products, including the announced closure in the quarter of three additional plants and the sale of a non-core product line. And in our golf business, new products, international sales growth in constant currency, and lower costs partly offset the impact of reduced consumer discretionary spending, lower corporate custom golf ball orders and adverse foreign exchange.
:
For the first quarter of 2009
Net income was $7.4 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, compared to $0.69 from continuing operations in the year-ago quarter.
Comparisons were impacted by a $0.25 per share charge from one-time items principally related to supply-chain and cost reduction initiatives in the home products and golf businesses.
Excluding one-time items in both the current and prior-year periods, diluted EPS before charges/gains was $0.30 compared to $0.75 in the year-ago quarter.
Net sales were $1.44 billion, down 20%.
On a comparable basis, excluding excise taxes, foreign exchange and acquisitions/divestitures, total net sales would have been down 17%.
Comparable net sales by business unit were: spirits down 3%; golf down 5%; home & hardware down 30%.
Operating income was $60.5 million.
Operating income before charges/gains was $120.7 million.
Return on equity before charges/gains was 9%.
Return on invested capital before charges/gains was 6%.
Outlook: Reaffirming Earnings Target for 2009
As the year progresses, comparisons will ease, a number of adverse factors will annualize, and well realize the benefits of our market-share and cost initiatives, so we believe we have the most challenging quarter of the year behind us, Carbonari said. Looking ahead, we anticipate consumers will remain cautious when it comes to discretionary spending and that the home products market will continue to be very challenging. Well also continue to face the impact of adverse foreign exchange. That said, we remain focused on outperforming our categories in the current environment and positioning Fortune Brands to emerge from the downturn an even stronger company.
Fortune Brands will benefit from our position in the relatively stable distilled spirits category, our company-wide brand-building initiatives, and our strength up and down the price ladder across our businesses, Carbonari continued. Specifically in spirits, well benefit in the marketplace from our new international distribution alliance that began in April and our dedicated sales organization in the U.S. The impact of the Australia tax increase on ready-to-drink spirits products will annualize later this month, as well. In golf, our strong lineup of new products and successful investments in international growth support our leadership in a challenging industry environment. And in home products, well continue to leverage our lower cost base, excellent customer service and strong brands as we seek to gain share in a difficult market.
Supported by these advantages, combined with our first quarter results, we have this week reaffirmed our full-year earnings target for diluted EPS before charges/gains to be in the range of $2.00-2.50. This full-year target reflects our continued expectation for lower results in our home products and golf segments due to very challenging conditions in those markets, partly offset by underlying growth in spirits, Carbonari concluded.
As announced earlier this week, the company has also raised its 2009 target for free cash flow to the range of $400 million after dividends and net capital expenditures. The higher target is the result of a series of cash-management initiatives and a reduction in the dividend rate.
About Fortune Brands
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a leading consumer brands company. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in distilled spirits, home and hardware, and golf products. Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. is the companys premium spirits business. Major spirits brands include Jim Beam and Makers Mark bourbon, Sauza tequila, Canadian Club whisky, Courvoisier cognac, Cruzan rum, Teachers and Laphroaig Scotch, and DeKuyper cordials. Home and hardware brands include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Omega, Diamond and Kitchen Craft cabinetry, Therma-Tru door systems, Simonton windows, Master Lock security products and Waterloo tool storage sold by units of Fortune Brands Home & Hardware LLC. Acushnet Companys golf brands include Titleist, Cobra and FootJoy. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index and the MSCI World Index.
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit .
www.fortunebrands.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the company does not assume any obligation to update, amend or clarify them to reflect events, new information or circumstances occurring after the date of this release. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to: general economic conditions, including the U.S. housing market; competitive market pressures (including pricing pressures); customer defaults and related bad debt expense; consolidation of trade customers; successful development of new products and processes; ability to secure and maintain rights to intellectual property; risks pertaining to strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, including the potential financial effects and performance of such acquisitions or joint ventures, and integration of acquisitions and the related confirmation or remediation of internal controls over financial reporting; changes related to the U.S. and international distribution structure in the companys spirits business; ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; weather; risks associated with doing business outside the United States, including currency exchange rate risks; commodity and energy price volatility; costs of certain employee and retiree benefits and returns on pension assets; dependence on performance of distributors and other marketing arrangements; the impact of excise tax increases on distilled spirits; changes in golf equipment regulatory standards and other regulatory developments; potential liabilities, costs and uncertainties of litigation; impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles; historical consolidated financial statements that may not be indicative of future conditions and results; interest rate fluctuations; volatility of financial and credit markets, which could affect access to capital for the company, its customers and consumers; any possible downgrades of the companys credit ratings; as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release includes measures not derived in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), such as diluted earnings per share before charges/gains, operating income before charges/gains, comparable net sales, return on equity before charges/gains, return on invested capital before charges/gains, and free cash flow. These measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for any measure derived in accordance with GAAP, and may also be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies. Reconciliation of these measures to the most closely comparable GAAP measures, and reasons for the companys use of these measures, are presented in the attached pages.
ROE From Continuing Operations Before Charges/Gains and ROIC From Continuing Operations Before Charges/Gains are measures not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management uses these measures to determine the returns generated by the company and to evaluate and identify cost-reduction initiatives. Management believes these measures provide investors with helpful supplemental information regarding the underlying performance of the company from year-to-year. These measures may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.
Comparable Net Sales is Net Sales derived in accordance with GAAP excluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates, spirits excise taxes, the net sales from acquired and divested entities and product lines, and the impact of third-party bottling contracts. Comparable Net Sales is a measure not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management uses this measure to evaluate the overall performance of the company, and believes this measure provides investors with helpful supplemental information regarding the underlying performance of the company from year-to-year. This measure may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.
CONTACT:
Fortune Brands, Inc.
Media Relations:
Clarkson Hine
(847) 484-4415
or
Investor Relations:
Tony Diaz
(847) 484-4410


