FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20101028083333.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
 
October 28, 2010
Fortune Brands, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
(Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)
520 Lake Cook Road
Deerfield, IL  60015
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
847-484-4400
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[   ]   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[   ]   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[   ]   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[   ]   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN THE REPORT
Pursuant to Form 8-K, Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure, Fortune Brands, Inc. (Fortune Brands or the Company) is furnishing its press release dated October 28, 2010, which reports the Registrants third quarter results, as well as certain guidance for 2010.  The press release is included herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.  Pursuant to general instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
See Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition above.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
Fortune Brands Reports Third Quarter Results
DEERFIELD, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--October 28, 2010--Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO):
Quarter In Line with Companys Expectations
Company Reaffirms Full-Year Earnings Target and Raises Target for Free Cash Flow
Strategic Investments Delivering Results
New Products and New Business Wins Enhance Performance and Future Prospects
Fortune Brands, Inc. [NYSE: FO], the company behind leading consumer brands including Jim Beam, Titleist and Moen, today reported results for the third quarter of 2010. The company also reaffirmed its full-year earnings target range of $2.60-2.90 in diluted EPS before charges/gains versus $2.43 in 2009, and increased its 2010 free cash flow target range to $625-700 million, up from $525-600 million.
As anticipated, due to the expiration of the U.S. homebuyer tax credit as well as the timing of spirits orders, results reflected pull-forward in demand that benefited the second quarter at the expense of the third quarter. Accordingly, net sales were up slightly for the quarter and are up 7% for the first nine months of 2010. Operating income was off 14% in the quarter and is up 33% year to date. For the quarter, diluted earnings per share were $0.66 and diluted EPS before charges/gains was $0.72. Fortune Brands has publicly estimated that the pull-forward in demand represented 10-15 cents of EPS that was shifted from the third quarter into the second. On a year-to-date basis, EPS before charges/gains is up 24%.
Fortune Brands third-quarter results were in line with our expectations and the company remains on track to deliver strong results for the full year, said Bruce Carbonari, chairman and CEO of Fortune Brands. Our results reflected the headwinds we publicly projected three months ago, including the acceleration of demand into the second quarter due to the expiration of the U.S. homebuyer tax credit and the timing of spirits orders, higher costs for raw materials, and the increased strategic investments were making for long-term profitable growth. These investments  which include support for new business weve recently won, new product innovations, long-term brand building and international growth initiatives  are already delivering results.
Our brands continue to perform very well in the marketplace and are well positioned for the future. In Spirits, new products and successful strategic investments are fueling momentum in the U.S. as we see the positive impact of recent initiatives. Were also making progress in challenging global markets and growing strongly in priority emerging markets. Even as the home products market has softened, were outperforming the market and also winning profitable new business in the cabinetry, faucet and garage organization categories that will enhance our prospects in 2011 and beyond. And in Golf, weve driven year-to-date growth in all product categories, were continuing to expand strongly in key Asian markets, and the fourth-quarter launch of the advanced-technology new Titleist 910 driver will build on a very successful year of new product introductions.
For the third quarter of 2010
:
Net income was $102.6 million, or $0.66 per diluted share, compared to $0.82 per diluted share in the year-ago quarter.
Comparisons were adversely impacted by net charges of $0.06 per diluted share in the current quarter and a net gain of $0.05 per diluted share in the year-ago quarter.
Excluding charges and gains in both the current and prior-year periods, diluted EPS was $0.72, down 6% from $0.77 in the year-ago quarter.
Net sales were $1.72 billion, up 0.2%.
On a comparable basis  excluding excise taxes, foreign exchange and acquisitions/divestitures  total net sales would have been up 1%.
Comparable net sales by business unit were: spirits up 2%; home & security up 1%; golf up 3%.
Operating income was $176.8 million.
Operating income before charges/gains was $206.4 million, down 3%.
Return on equity before charges/gains was 8%.
Return on invested capital before charges/gains was 6%.
Outlook for Strong Full-Year Results
As we look ahead, we continue to expect that the economic recovery will be gradual and uneven, with the spirits and golf markets likely to grow in the low-single-digit range for the full year and the likelihood that our home products market will now be relatively flat, Carbonari continued. The proactive steps we took during the downturn and the investments were making at the front end of the recovery have put Fortune Brands in a very strong competitive position. Trusted brands combined with strong innovation, customer wins, strategic brand investments and global expansion initiatives are helping drive broad-based share gains. The leverage of our lower cost structures is helping the bottom line, and our sharp focus on cash is helping fortify our balance sheet.
Fortune Brands remains on track to deliver strong earnings growth in 2010 and results within our full-year target range of $2.60-2.90 versus $2.43 in 2009. Factoring in previously discussed headwinds, including higher raw materials costs, our increased strategic investments, and comparisons to last years improving results, our results are tracking towards the middle of our target range. We believe we are well positioned to continue our momentum in the marketplace, leverage our lower cost structures, and deliver continued earnings growth and improving returns as the economy recovers, Carbonari concluded.
The increase in Fortune Brands target for 2010 free cash flow  now in the range of $625-700 million  reflects improvements in the companys working capital position and the timing of capital expenditures. The companys target represents an earnings-to-free-cash conversion rate well in excess of 100%.
About Fortune Brands
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a leading consumer brands company. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in distilled spirits, home and security, and golf products. Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. is the company's premium spirits business. Major spirits brands include Jim Beam and Maker's Mark bourbon, Sauza tequila, Canadian Club whisky, Courvoisier cognac, Cruzan rum, Teacher's and Laphroaig Scotch, EFFEN vodka and DeKuyper cordials. The brands of Fortune Brands Home & Security LLC include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Omega, Diamond and Kitchen Craft cabinetry, Therma-Tru door systems, Simonton windows, Master Lock security products and Waterloo storage and organization products. Acushnet Company's golf brands include Titleist and FootJoy. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index and the MSCI World Index.
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit .
www.fortunebrands.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the company does not assume any obligation to update, amend or clarify them to reflect events, new information or circumstances occurring after the date of this release. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to: general economic conditions, including the U.S. housing and remodeling market; the impact of changes in U.S. government stimulus programs; competitive market pressures (including pricing pressures); customer defaults and related bad debt expense; consolidation of trade customers; successful development of new products and processes; ability to secure and maintain rights to intellectual property; risks pertaining to strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, including the potential financial effects and performance of such acquisitions or joint ventures, and integration of acquisitions and the related confirmation or remediation of internal controls over financial reporting; ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; weather; risks associated with doing business outside the United States, including currency exchange rate risks; commodity and energy price volatility; costs of certain employee and retiree benefits and returns on pension assets; dependence on performance of distributors and other marketing arrangements; the impact of excise tax increases on distilled spirits; the status of the U.S. rum excise tax cover-over program; changes in golf equipment regulatory standards and other regulatory developments; potential liabilities, costs and uncertainties of litigation; impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles; historical consolidated financial statements that may not be indicative of future conditions and results; interest rate fluctuations; volatility of financial and credit markets, which could affect access to capital for the company, its customers and consumers; any possible downgrades of the companys credit ratings; as well as other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in the companys Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release includes measures not derived in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), such as diluted earnings per share before charges/gains, operating income before charges/gains, comparable net sales, return on equity before charges/gains, return on invested capital before charges/gains, and free cash flow. These measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for any measure derived in accordance with GAAP, and may also be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies. Reconciliation of these measures to the most closely comparable GAAP measures, and reasons for the companys use of these measures, are presented in the attached pages.
CONTACT:
Fortune Brands, Inc.
Media Relations:
Clarkson Hine
(847) 484-4415
or
Investor Relations:
Tony Diaz
(847) 484-4410


