FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20110831090720.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) As previously announced, Fortune Brands, Inc. ("Fortune Brands" or the "Company") plans to distribute 100% of the outstanding shares of common stock of Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc. ("Home & Security") to the holders of shares of common stock of the Company, subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission declaring effective the Registration Statement on Form 10 filed by Home & Security, authorization by the New York Stock Exchange and other conditions described in the Information Statement included in the Form 10. In this Current Report on Form 8-K, we refer to this transaction as the "Spin-Off."
In connection with the Spin-Off, on August 25, 2011, Fortune Brands' Board of Directors increased the number of directors of the Company from seven to nine, effective as of December 1, 2011. In addition, on August 25, 2011, the Board of Directors of the Company elected each of Stephen W. Golsby and Robert A. Steele to the Board of Directors of the Company, effective December 1, 2011. Mr. Golsby and Mr. Steele will serve on the Board of Directors for a term continuing until the Company's 2012 annual meeting of stockholders. On August 29, 2011, Fortune Brands issued a press release announcing Messrs. Golsby's and Steele's elections, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Both Mr. Golsby and Mr. Steele are independent under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange and the Company's Corporate Governance Principles. Effective December 1, 2011, Mr. Golsby will serve on the Company's Compensation and Stock Option Committee and the Corporate Responsibility Committee, and Mr. Steele will serve on the Company's Audit Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
(e) On August 25, 2011, in connection with the anticipated Spin-off and the anticipated elimination of Patrick J. Koley's position with the Company following the Spin-off, the Company's Compensation and Stock Option Committee amended the terms of the outstanding restricted stock unit awards granted to Mr. Koley at the time he commenced employment with the Company (the "New Hire RSUs") and all other outstanding restricted stock unit awards held by Mr. Koley at the close of business on the date of the completion of the proposed Spin-off (the "Other RSUs").
Under the terms of the Employee Matters Agreement to be entered into between the Company and Home & Security in connection with the Spin-off (the "Employee Matters Agreement"), each Fortune Brands restricted stock unit (each, a "Fortune Brands RSU") held by a departing Fortune Brands employee, such as Mr. Koley, that is outstanding on the date of the completion of the Spin-off will be replaced with one adjusted Company restricted stock unit and one substitute Home & Security restricted stock unit (together, the "Split RSUs").
The Split RSUs that replace the New Hire RSUs will vest in full, and be payable upon, Mr. Koley's termination of employment with the Company. In addition, a portion of the Split RSUs that replace the Other RSUs will vest, and be payable upon, Mr. Koley's termination of employment with the Company. That portion will be equal to the total number of Other RSUs, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days elapsed between the award date of the Fortune Brands RSUs to which the Split RSUs relate and the date of Mr. Koley's termination of employment, and the denominator of which is the total number of days in the applicable vesting period of the corresponding Fortune Brands RSUs. All of the other Split RSUs received by Mr. Koley in connection with the Spin-off will terminate upon the effective time of the termination of Mr. Koley's employment.
Notwithstanding the terms of the Employee Matters Agreement, each Split RSU granted to Mr. Koley to replace a Fortune Brands RSU shall be payable to Mr. Koley as soon as practicable after it vests upon the effective time of his termination of employment, but in no event later than March 15, 2012.
It is anticipated that Mr. Koley's last day of employment with the Company will be December 31, 2011. As a result of the amendment, 10,233 unvested Split RSUs held by Mr. Koley as of December 31, 2011, which would have otherwise terminated as of such date, will vest.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 31, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Deerfield, Illinois, August 29, 2011  Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO) today announced the addition of two directors to the board of Beam Inc., the standalone public spirits company to result from the planned separation of its businesses.
Effective December 1, 2011, Stephen W. Golsby, president and chief executive officer of Mead Johnson Nutrition Company (NYSE: MJN), and Robert A. Steele, vice chairman  Health Care Strategy of The Procter & Gamble Company (NYSE: PG), have been elected directors of Beam, the new name for Fortune Brands following the spin-off of Fortune Brands Home & Security expected on October 3
rd
.
"Steve and Rob are proven and respected leaders who will enhance the Beam board with their vast consumer packaged goods experience," said David Mackay, the Fortune Brands director who will become non-executive chairman of Beam. "Steve Golsby's impressive experience building businesses globally and also guiding his company through a split-off will be a valuable asset to our board and the Beam team. And I had the privilege of working with Rob Steele on the board of Kellogg Company and know he will bring keen insights from his decades of leadership experience managing global power brands and developing major innovations. Beam CEO Matt Shattock, our fellow directors and I are delighted to welcome Steve and Rob to our board."
Steve Golsby, 56, has served as president of Mead Johnson Nutrition Company since 2004 and was appointed chief executive officer in 2008. He led the company through its successful split-off from Bristol-Myers Squibb in 2009, and under his leadership, the Enfamil family of products has grown to become the largest global brand franchise in pediatric nutrition. Previously, he served as president, international of Mead Johnson from 2001 to 2003 and as senior vice president and general manager for Mead Johnson and Clairol in Asia-Pacific from 1998 to 2000. Golsby joined Mead Johnson in 1997 after 15 years at Unilever, where he held senior leadership and marketing positions in several key Asian and European markets. Golsby holds a Business degree from Strathclyde University in Glasgow, Scotland.
 
FORTUNE BRANDS ANNOUNCES ADDITION OF TWO DIRECTORS TO BOARD OF BEAM, PAGE 2
 
Rob Steele, 56, has served as P&G's vice chairman  Health Care Strategy since February 2011 and plans to retire in September after 35 years with the company. Until February, Steele served as the company's vice chairman  Global Health and Well-Being, leading one of P&G's three business units that included the company's oral care, feminine care, personal health care, pet care and snack brands. Over the course of his P&G career, Steele introduced several successful innovations, including the billion-dollar Swiffer brand. Steele is currently a member of the board of Kellogg Company. He holds a bachelor's degree from the College of Wooster and an MBA from Cleveland State University.
The addition of Golsby and Steele will increase the size of the Beam board to nine members.
About Fortune Brands
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a leading consumer brands company. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in distilled spirits and home and security products. The major spirits brands of Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. include Jim Beam and Maker's Mark bourbon, Sauza tequila, Canadian Club whisky, Courvoisier cognac, Cruzan rum, Teacher's and Laphroaig Scotch, EFFEN vodka, Skinnygirl cocktails and DeKuyper cordials. The brands of Fortune Brands Home & Security LLC include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Omega, Diamond and Kitchen Craft cabinetry, Therma-Tru door systems, Simonton windows, Master Lock security products and Waterloo storage and organization products. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index and the MSCI World Index.
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit .
www.fortunebrands.com
 
FORTUNE BRANDS ANNOUNCES ADDITION OF TWO DIRECTORS TO BOARD OF BEAM, PAGE 3
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements relating to future events, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the company does not assume any obligation to update, amend or clarify them to reflect events, new information or circumstances occurring after the date of this release. Actual plans, actions and results may differ materially from current expectations as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including the risks and uncertainties described from time to time in the company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings and in the Registration Statement on Form 10 filed by Fortune Brands Home & Security LLC. There can be no assurance that the proposed separation will be completed as anticipated or at all.


