FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20111103092840.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 3, 2011, Beam Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release reporting its financial results for the third quarter of 2011. The Company also provided supplemental adjusted pro forma financial information reflecting the Company's spin-off of Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. Pursuant to general instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
See "Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" above.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
Deerfield, Illinois, November 3, 2011  Beam Inc. (NYSE: BEAM), a leading global premium spirits company, today reported results for the third quarter of 2011. For Beam as a standalone spirits business, net sales increased 10% and diluted earnings per share rose 13% to $0.53 from $0.47 in the year-ago quarter, on an adjusted pro forma basis. Year to date, adjusted pro forma net sales are up 10% and diluted earnings per share are up 11%. Given the company's strong year-to-date sales performance, Beam is on track to achieve full-year results towards the high end of its 2011 earnings target range.
On a reported basis under the former Fortune Brands structure, third-quarter diluted EPS was $2.67 versus $0.66 in the year-ago quarter. These results include the gain on sale from the July divestiture of the golf business and results for the Fortune Brands Home & Security business that was spun-off to shareholders on October 3, 2011.
"Beam delivered record third-quarter sales that grew faster than our markets," said Matt Shattock, president & chief executive officer of Beam. "We outperformed at the top line on strong growth for our Power Brands, Rising Stars and successful new products, as well as some timing benefits in the U.S. and Australia.
"Our investments in brand building and innovation continued to pay off in broad-based global growth in the third quarter. Sales of our Power Brands grew 11% benefiting from standout performance for Jim Beam, Teacher's and Courvoisier. Our Rising Star brands were sharply higher, led by strong growth from our Skinnygirl cocktails acquisition  which once again added to our overall share gain in the quarter  as well as sustained double-digit growth for super-premium brands including Knob Creek bourbon and Laphroaig Scotch.
 
Crafting the Spirits that Stir the World
 
BEAM INC. REPORTS THIRD QUARTER RESULTS, PAGE 2
 
"As anticipated, growth in Beam's third-quarter operating income was tempered by factors including our increase of more than 20% in brand investment plus start-up costs related to new products. Starting here in the fourth quarter, increases in brand investment will moderate to a rate more in line with sales growth," Shattock added.
"We are pleased with our year-to-date performance, which includes sales growth for each of our Power Brands and Rising Stars, the brands on which we focus our investments. Our successful efforts to energize our markets with dynamic innovations and speed to market have helped fuel these gains, and we're seeing strong consumer response to new products including Devil's Cut by Jim Beam, Knob Creek Single Barrel Reserve, Pucker Flavored Vodka and Courvoisier Ros, as well as the international launch of innovations such as Red Stag," Shattock continued.
:
Results for Beam on an adjusted pro forma basis
Adjusted pro forma is defined as Beam results before charges/gains adjusted to assume that Beam was an independent business as of the beginning of 2010, including the impact of public company corporate expense, Beam's tax rate, and the benefit of the debt reduction associated with the Fortune Brands separation plan. It is also adjusted for the one-time startup benefit of the new Australia spirits distribution agreement announced earlier this year.
For the third quarter:
 
 
 
 
For the year to date (January  September):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Crafting the Spirits that Stir the World
 
BEAM INC. REPORTS THIRD QUARTER RESULTS, PAGE 3
 
:
For the third quarter of 2011, including former business units of Fortune Brands
 
 
"We continue to expect that our global spirits market will grow at a low-single-digit rate in 2011, and we're pleased with our progress as we enter the fourth quarter," Shattock said. "We believe the execution of our focused strategy has primed Beam to accelerate profitable long-term growth. As increases in brand investment moderate to a rate more in line with sales growth here in the fourth quarter, we expect operating income will begin to grow faster than sales. At the same time, our strong year-to-date sales performance enhances our confidence in our full-year prospects. As a result, we now expect to deliver results towards the high end of our full-year earnings target range of high-single-digit growth in adjusted pro forma diluted EPS against a base of $1.92 in 2010."
The company also is targeting for 2011 an earnings-to-free-cash conversion rate at or above 90%, and a net debt-to-EBITDA ratio of approximately 2.5 times reflecting the company's strong capital structure.
 
Crafting the Spirits that Stir the World
 
BEAM INC. REPORTS THIRD QUARTER RESULTS, PAGE 4
 
Key Brand Performance
Net sales growth, year to date (January  September):
 
Growth rates presented on a comparable basis, which excludes excise taxes and adjusts for foreign exchange, and the ongoing impact of the new Australia spirits distribution agreement.
Results include ready-to-drink products.
 
About Beam Inc.
As one of the world's leading premium spirits companies, Beam is Crafting the Spirits that Stir the World. Consumers from all corners of the globe call for the company's brands, including Jim Beam Bourbon, Maker's Mark Bourbon, Sauza Tequila, Canadian Club Whisky, Courvoisier Cognac, Teacher's Scotch Whisky, Laphroaig Scotch Whisky, Cruzan Rum, Hornitos Tequila,
 
Crafting the Spirits that Stir the World
 
BEAM INC. REPORTS THIRD QUARTER RESULTS, PAGE 5
 
Knob Creek Bourbon, EFFEN Vodka, Pucker Flavored Vodka, Larios Gin, Whisky DYC, DeKuyper Cordials, and Skinnygirl Cocktails. The Beam portfolio includes 10 of the world's top 100 premium spirits brands and some of the industry's fastest growing innovations. Beam is focused on delivering superior performance with its unique combination of scale with agility and a strategy of Creating Famous Brands, Building Winning Markets and Fueling Our Growth. Beam and its 3,200 passionate associates worldwide generated 2010 sales of $2.7 billion on volume of 33 million 9-liter cases.
Headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, Beam is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol BEAM and is included in the S&P 500 Index and the MSCI World Index. For more information on Beam, its brands, and its commitment to social responsibility, please visit and .
www.beamglobal.com
www.drinksmart.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the company does not assume any obligation to update, amend or clarify them to reflect events, new information or circumstances occurring after the date of this release. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to general economic conditions and credit market instability; customer defaults and related bad debt expense; competitive market pressures (including pricing pressures); changes in customer preferences and trends; risks pertaining to strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, particularly financial and integration risks; any possible downgrades of the company's credit ratings; commodity and energy price volatility; risks associated with doing business outside the United States, including currency exchange rate risks; inability to attract and retain qualified personnel; the impact of excise tax increases and customs duties on distilled spirits; the status of the U.S. rum excise tax cover-over program; dependence on performance of distributors and other marketing arrangements; costs of certain employee and retiree benefits and returns on pension assets; tax law changes and/or interpretation of existing tax laws; potential liabilities, costs and uncertainties of litigation; ability to secure and maintain rights to trademarks and trade names; impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets; disruptions at production facilities; risks related to the Home & Security spin-off; and other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release includes measures not derived in accordance with generally accepted
 
Crafting the Spirits that Stir the World
 
BEAM INC. REPORTS THIRD QUARTER RESULTS, PAGE 6
 
accounting principles ("GAAP"), including the following measures that are presented on an adjusted pro forma basis: net sales, diluted earnings per share, comparable net sales, operating income, return on invested capital before charges/gains, earnings-to-free-cash conversion rate and net debt-to-EBITDA. These measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for any measure derived in accordance with GAAP, and may also be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies. Reconciliation of these measures to the most closely comparable GAAP measures, and reasons for the company's use of these measures, are presented in the attached pages.
 
Crafting the Spirits that Stir the World
 
Note: GAAP results reflect the Golf segment as a discontinued operation beginning in the quarter ended June 30, 2011; results for periods prior thereto have been reclassified to conform to the discontinued operations presentation. GAAP results reflect the Home & Security segment in continuing operations. The spin-off of Home & Security was effective October 3, 2011; consequently, the Home & Security business will be presented as a discontinued operation beginning in the quarter ending December 31, 2011.
 
 
 
Note:
Adjusted Pro Forma Financial Information is not derived in accordance with U.S. GAAP and is provided for informational purposes. Refer to the Notes to Adjusted Pro Forma Financial Information on page 12 for additional information regarding the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures. Definitions of these measures and reconciliations to the most closely comparable U.S. GAAP measures are presented in the following pages 13 - 21.
 
 
Adjusted Pro Forma Financial Information is not derived in accordance with U.S. GAAP and is provided for informational purposes. Refer to the Notes to Adjusted Pro Forma Financial Information on page 12 for additional information regarding the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of these measures to the most closely comparable U.S. GAAP measures are presented in the following pages 13 - 21.
Note:
 
 
Note: GAAP results reflect the Golf segment as a discontinued operation beginning in the quarter ended June 30, 2011; results for periods prior thereto have been reclassified to conform to the discontinued operations presentation. GAAP results reflect the Home & Security segment in continuing operations. The spin-off of Home & Security was effective October 3, 2011; consequently, the Home & Security business will be presented as a discontinued operation beginning in the quarter ending December 31, 2011.
 
 
Note: Adjusted Pro Forma financial information is not derived in accordance with U.S. GAAP and is provided for informational purposes. Refer to the Notes to Adjusted Pro Forma Financial Information on page 12 for additional information regarding the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of these measures to the most closely comparable U.S. GAAP measures are presented on the following pages 13 - 21.
 
The adjusted pro forma income information set forth below is unaudited and has been derived from Beam Inc. consolidated financial statements. The adjusted pro forma information is for informational purposes and is not intended to represent what our results of operations or financial position would have been had the separation transactions occurred on the dates set forth below. The adjusted pro forma information should not be considered indicative of our future results of operations as an independent spirits company.
GAAP results reflect the Golf segment as a discontinued operation beginning in the second quarter of 2011; results in periods prior to the second quarter of 2011 have been reclassified to conform to the new presentation. GAAP results will reflect the Home & Security ("H&S") segment as a discontinued operation beginning with the effective date of its spin-off.
Operating Results Adjusted Pro Forma Information
Adjusted pro forma is defined as results from continuing operations before charges/gains adjusted to assume that Beam Inc. was an independent business as of the beginning of 2010, including the impact of public company corporate expense, the business's underlying tax rate, and the benefit of the debt reduction associated with the separation plan. More specifically, the adjusted pro forma information gives pro forma effect to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Balance Sheet Adjusted Pro Forma Information
The September 30, 2011 GAAP balance sheet reflects the sale of Golf, the extinguishment of $0.9 billion carrying value of debt, and an approximately $140 million loss on the debt extinguishment. The September 30, 2011 Adjusted Pro Forma balance sheet includes pro forma adjustments to reflect the spin-off of Home & Security, a $0.5 billion dividend from Home & Security, and the assumed reduction of $0.8 billion of debt.
Both the December 31, 2010 and the September 30, 2010 GAAP balance sheets include Golf as a discontinued operation and Home & Security as a continuing operation. Both the December 31, 2010 and the September 30, 2010 Adjusted Pro Forma balance sheets include the following adjustments: (1) the sale of Golf for proceeds of approximately $1.2 billion; (2) the spin-off of Home & Security and $500 million dividend from Home & Security to Beam immediately prior to the spin-off; (3) $1.7 billion extinguishment of carrying value of debt and the related $140 million extinguishment loss (based on actual redemptions through September 30, 2011) and (4) the equity impact of the Golf sale based on the net discontinued operations assets as of each balance sheet date and the $1.2 billion of sale proceeds. The purpose of these pro forma adjustments is to provide comparable balance sheets to use in the calculation of certain of the Company's performance measures such as return on invested capital.
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
We sometimes use information derived from consolidated financial information but not presented in our financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Certain of these data are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" under the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules. By definition, all pro-forma information presented herein is non-GAAP financial information. In addition, the Company uses other non-GAAP financial measures such as Adjusted EBITDA, Net Debt/EBITDA, and Adjusted return on average invested capital excluding intangibles, among others.
These non-GAAP financial measures supplement our GAAP disclosures and should not be an alternative to the GAAP measure. Management believes this information provides investors with helpful supplemental information regarding the underlying performance of the Company from period to period were it functioning as an independent spirits company. The adjusted pro forma information may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies. The reconciliations of these measures to the most comparable GAAP measure are provided on the following pages.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pro Forma financial information is not derived in accordance with U.S. GAAP and is provided for informational purposes. Refer to the Notes to Adjusted Pro Forma Financial Information on page 12 for additional information regarding the Company's use of these non-GAAP measures.
Note:
 
 
 
Comparable Net Sales is Net Sales derived in accordance with GAAP excluding changes in spirits excise taxes, foreign currency exchange rates, the impact of acquisitions/divestitures, and the impact of a change in a distribution agreement. Comparable Net Sales is a measure not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management uses this measure to evaluate the overall performance of the company, and believes this measure provides investors with helpful supplemental information regarding the underlying performance of the company from year to year. This measure may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.
:
Note
 
Free Cash Flow is Cash Flow from Operations less net capital expenditures (capital expenditures less proceeds from the sale of assets including property, plant and equipment). Free Cash Flow is a measure not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management believes that Free Cash Flow provides investors with helpful supplemental information about the Company's ability to fund internal growth, make acquisitions, repay debt, pay dividends, and repurchase common stock. This measure may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.
:
Note
 
 
EBITDA represents pro forma adjusted net income less interest, income taxes, depreciation, amortization and other income/expense. EBITDA is a measure not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management believes that EBITDA provides investors with helpful supplemental information about the Company's ability to fund internal growth, make acquisitions, repay debt, pay dividends, and repurchase common stock. This measure may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.
:
Note
 
 
 
ROIC is net income plus after-tax interest expense divided by the average of Invested Capital (net debt plus stockholders' equity less noncontrolling interests). Adjusted Pro Forma ROIC is adjusted based on the amounts described in the Notes to Pro Forma Financial Information.
:
Note
Projected Full Year 2011 Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations Growth
 
For the full year 2011, the Company is projecting high single digit growth in diluted EPS from continuing operations on an adjusted pro forma basis. Beginning in the fourth quarter both the Home & Security and Golf businesses will be reflected in discontinued operations. For the full year 2011, the significant adjustments between GAAP continuing operations results and Adjusted Pro Forma results are the adjustments described in the Notes to Pro Forma Financial Information on page 12 and the year to date adjustments in the reconciliation of results for the nine month period ended September 30, 2011. Due to the unpredictable and/or unusual nature of special charges/gains, the Company cannot predict the impact of any such items that may occur during the fourth quarter on its full year GAAP results. On a GAAP basis, diluted earnings per share decreased significantly year-over-year (as compared to Adjusted Pro Forma EPS growth) due to significant charges associated with the separation, including a loss of debt extinguishment of approximately $140 million, business separation costs of more than $100 million through the nine months ended September 30, 2011, and higher corporate cost structure and interest expense, which have been reduced in the Adjusted pro forma results to reflect Beam as a standalone spirits organization, among other items.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company believes the above measures are useful in evaluating the Company's operating results and financial condition. See Notes to Adjusted Pro Forma Financial Information for additional information related to the use of Non-GAAP measures.
:
Note
 


