FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20110520163459.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 19, 2011, Fortune Brands, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") with Alexandria Operations Corp., a Delaware corporation (the "Buyer") a special purpose acquisition entity formed by Fila Korea Limited and Mirae Asset Private Equity. Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Buyer will acquire from the Company all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of Acushnet Company, a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of the Company engaged in the manufacturing and marketing of golf equipment (the "Acushnet Common Stock"). The purchase price for the Acushnet Common Stock is $1.225 billion, all cash, subject to a post-closing working capital adjustment as provided in the Purchase Agreement. Closing of the purchase is contingent on the satisfaction of customary conditions, including the receipt of applicable regulatory approvals. The closing is currently expected to be completed during the third quarter of fiscal 2011.
The Purchase Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants by each of the parties for transactions of this nature. Subject to certain exceptions, terms and limitations described in the Purchase Agreement, the Company and Buyer have agreed to indemnify and hold each other harmless for breaches or inaccuracies of certain representations or warranties or the failure of the other party to perform certain covenants or agreements contained in the Purchase Agreement. The Purchase Agreement includes certain restrictions on the Company's solicitation of certain Acushnet employees after the closing. The Purchase Agreement provides for a $100 million fee to be paid by Buyer to the Company if (i) the Purchase Agreement is terminated as a result of certain antitrust conditions or events, or (ii) Buyer breaches certain provisions in the Purchase Agreement, or (iii) there is a "Terminable Breach" (as defined) of the Purchase Agreement by Buyer. The Purchase Agreement provides for a $100 million fee to be paid by the Company to Buyer if there is a Terminable Breach of the Purchase Agreement by the Company and certain other conditions are satisfied as set forth in the Purchase Agreement. The Purchase Agreement also provides for the Company to pay Buyer a fee if the Company breaches a "no-shop" provision in the Purchase Agreement, in addition to any fee that may be payable by the Company for a Terminable Breach.
The Purchase Agreement may be terminated by either the Company or Buyer if the closing has not occurred by August 1, 2011 (subject to extension if certain regulatory approvals have not been obtained by that date) or upon the occurrence of certain customary events as set forth in the Purchase Agreement.
Neither the Company nor any of its affiliates have had a material relationship with the Buyer, other than in respect of the Purchase Agreement.
The description of the Purchase Agreement is summary in nature and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full and complete terms of the definitive agreement. A copy of the Purchase Agreement is expected to be filed as an exhibit to the Company's next Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. When filed, that Form 10-Q will also be available on the Company's website at www.fortunebrands.com.
On May 20, 2011, the Company issued a press release, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference, announcing that the Company has entered into the Purchase Agreement.
Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing. The furnishing of Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto is not intended to constitute a determination by the Company that the information is material or that the dissemination of the information is required by Regulation FD.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Deerfield, Illinois, May 20, 2011  Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE:FO) today announced a definitive agreement for the sale of its Acushnet Company golf business, featuring the iconic Titleist and FootJoy brands, to a group led by Fila Korea Ltd., the owner of the Fila brand globally, and Mirae Asset Private Equity, the largest private equity firm in Korea. The purchase price is $1.225 billion in cash. Fortune Brands estimates it will realize net proceeds of approximately $1.1 billion after taxes and expenses.
Acushnet is the leading and most profitable golf equipment company in the world. Titleist is the #1 ball in golf and a leader in high-performance golf clubs. FootJoy is the #1 shoe and glove in golf and a leader in performance outerwear. Net sales exceeded $1.2 billion in 2010, with nearly half of revenues generated in markets outside the United States. Operating income before charges was $80 million in 2010, and operating income on a GAAP basis was $89 million.
Established in Italy in 1911, Fila is a leading sport and leisure footwear and apparel brand that is distributed worldwide. The group led by Fila Korea and Mirae also includes the National Pension Service of Korea, the fourth largest pension fund in the world, and Korea Development Bank, Korea's largest government-owned bank.
"This transaction is a very important milestone as we execute our proposed plan to separate our three strong businesses for the purpose of maximizing long-term value for our shareholders," said Bruce Carbonari, chairman and chief executive officer of Fortune
 
FORTUNE BRANDS ANNOUNCES AGREEMENT TO SELL ACUSHNET COMPANY
GOLF BUSINESS, PAGE 2
 
Brands. "Not surprisingly, the sale process for Acushnet generated broad interest from a range of prospective buyers and resulted in this agreement that reflects the superior performance and prospects of the business. The proceeds from this sale will strengthen Fortune Brands' balance sheet and support strong capital structures for both Beam and Fortune Brands Home & Security as they look to the prospect of competing as independent companies later this year.
"At the same time, we believe Fila Korea and Mirae will enable the outstanding team at Acushnet to continue pursuing the strategies that have made it the preeminent company in golf, including delivering advanced-technology new products and driving strong growth across Asia," Carbonari continued. "We are grateful to all the associates at Acushnet who have built an industry leader and contributed to Fortune Brands' success for so many years. I have no doubt they will take Titleist and FootJoy to even greater heights in the future."
According to Gene Yoon, chairman and chief executive officer of Fila Korea, Ltd., "The acquisition of Acushnet transforms our platform with a stable of premiere world class brands. We are equally excited to embrace Acushnet's exceptional management team led by Wally Uihlein. With our extensive knowledge and reach in Asia, we believe that the Acushnet brands have incredible new opportunity for growth in the emerging markets in Asia."
"We are very impressed with what Acushnet management and employees have accomplished so far. We will fully support the company to remain focused on its core golf expertise and continue driving the growth of the industry," said JH Ryu, the CEO of Mirae Asset Private Equity.
Fortune Brands initiated a sale process for Acushnet after announcing in December that it proposed to separate its businesses following a strategic review process conducted by the Board and management. The sale has been approved by the Fortune Brands Board of Directors as well as the Boards of Fila Korea and Mirae, and is subject to certain closing conditions, including regulatory approvals. The transaction is expected to close this summer. As previously announced, the company also intends to spin off its Home & Security business and become a pure-play distilled spirits company named Beam. The company is targeting to complete the business separation early in the fourth quarter. The spin-off remains subject to completion of detailed separation plans, customary regulatory approvals and final Board approval.
Fortune Brands was advised on the Acushnet transaction by Morgan Stanley and Centerview Partners as financial advisors and Chadbourne & Parke as legal advisor. Fila Korea and Mirae were advised by Nomura, Korea Development Bank and the M&A and Korean practice groups of counsel McDermott, Will & Emery.
 
FORTUNE BRANDS ANNOUNCES AGREEMENT TO SELL ACUSHNET COMPANY
GOLF BUSINESS, PAGE 3
 
About Fortune Brands
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a leading consumer brands company. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in distilled spirits, home and security, and golf products. Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. is the company's premium spirits business. Major spirits brands include Jim Beam and Maker's Mark bourbon, Sauza tequila, Canadian Club whisky, Courvoisier cognac, Cruzan rum, Teacher's and Laphroaig Scotch, EFFEN vodka, Skinnygirl margarita and DeKuyper cordials. The brands of Fortune Brands Home & Security LLC include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Omega, Diamond and Kitchen Craft cabinetry, Therma-Tru door systems, Simonton windows, Master Lock security products and Waterloo storage and organization products. Acushnet Company's golf brands include Titleist and FootJoy. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index and the MSCI World Index.
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit .
www.fortunebrands.com
About Fila Korea Ltd.
2011 marks the centennial of the Fila brand which was established in the small textile town of Biella, Italy in 1911 by the Fila brothers. Fila is now a leading manufacturer of sport and leisure footwear and apparel distributed worldwide. The internationally respected company, having gained world class recognition in tennis apparel, has developed brand recognition by marketing high design and style content products that are endorsed by professional athletes from around the world.
About Mirae Asset Private Equity
Mirae Asset Private Equity is the leading private equity firm in Korea. As a pioneer in the Korean private equity market, Mirae Asset Private Equity introduced the first Korean private equity fund in 2004. Since then, Mirae Asset Private Equity has led the Korean private equity market demonstrating throughout a history of collaboration with various business partners, which is proven through its track record in adding value to its portfolio companies as well as successful investments. Mirae Asset Private Equity is the private equity arm of the Mirae Asset Financial Group. Mirae Asset Financial Group is an independent diversified financial services company with businesses in asset management, investment banking and life insurance. It is one of the world's largest
 
FORTUNE BRANDS ANNOUNCES AGREEMENT TO SELL ACUSHNET COMPANY
GOLF BUSINESS, PAGE 4
 
investors in emerging market equities with a total AUM of approximately USD 100 billion Mirae Asset Financial Group, headquartered in Seoul, Korea, has offices in major cities all over the world, including New York, London, Hong Kong, Shanghai, Beijing, Mumbai, Sao Paulo, Ho Chi Minh and Singapore.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements relating to future events, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the company does not assume any obligation to update, amend or clarify them to reflect events, new information or circumstances occurring after the date of this release. In addition to final Board authorization, the potential separation of Fortune Brands' companies will also be subject to the receipt of a number of customary regulatory approvals and/or rulings, the execution of intercompany agreements and finalization of other related matters. There can be no assurance that any of the proposed transactions will be completed as anticipated or at all.
Contacts:
Fortune Brands
Media Relations: Clarkson Hine, +1 847-484-4415
Investor Relations: Tony Diaz, +1 847-484-4410
Fila Korea Ltd.
Lauren Mallon (U.S.)
(o) 410.773.3236
(m) 443.527.0400
lmallon@fila.com
Jae W. Byun (Korea)
+822 3470 9691
jbyun@fila.co.kr


