FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20110804085533.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
August 4, 2011
Fortune Brands, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
(Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)
520 Lake Cook Road
Deerfield, IL  60015
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
847-484-4400
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN THE REPORT
                    Pursuant to Form 8-K, Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition and Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure, Fortune Brands, Inc. (Fortune Brands or the Company) is furnishing its press release dated August 4, 2011, which reports the Registrants second quarter results, as well as certain guidance for 2011.  The press release is included herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.  Pursuant to general instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
Fortune Brands Reports Second Quarter Results
DEERFIELD, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--August 4, 2011--
Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO):
Sales Rise 5% and Earnings Meet Company Expectations
Beam Sales Increase 11% to a Record on Broad-Based Global Share Gains
Home & Security Continues to Outperform Market
Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO) today reported results for the second quarter of 2011.
Net sales from continuing operations, which excludes the recently divested golf business, were $1.59 billion, up 5%.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.65, and diluted EPS before charges/gains was $0.71 versus $0.74 in the year-ago quarter.
Including results from the divested golf unit, sales would have been $1.99 billion and diluted EPS before charges/gains would have been $0.93 for the quarter.
As we approach the planned separation of our two remaining businesses, both Beam and Home & Security are outperforming their markets and will be ready to hit the ground running on Day One as independent companies, said Bruce Carbonari, chairman and chief executive officer of Fortune Brands. As expected, EPS before charges/gains for the second quarter was modestly lower due to the challenging comparisons we highlighted three months ago: the 10-15 cents per share benefit to the year-ago quarter primarily from the mid-2010 expiration of the U.S. homebuyer tax credit; higher year-over-year costs for raw materials and transportation; and the impact in the current-year period of our double-digit increase in strategic spend to support profitable long-term growth.
Beam achieved record second quarter sales with gains across its three geographic regions, Carbonari said. Notably, our investments in innovation and brand building are paying off in profitable share gains, and were further stepping up our brand investment as a result. The Jim Beam brand accelerated its momentum in the quarter, Makers Mark continued its double-digit growth, and our distribution muscle is fueling explosive growth for the Skinnygirl cocktails brand we acquired in March. In fact, Skinnygirl has already become the fastest-growing spirits brand in America, and were planning to build on its success with innovations like the new Skinnygirl Sangria. Spirits operating income growth trailed top-line growth, as anticipated, due principally to our strong double-digit increase in brand investment and the startup costs associated with new product launches.
In a home products market that was softer than we originally anticipated, Fortune Brands Home & Security continued to outperform on the success of new business wins and strategic investments in growth initiatives, Carbonari continued. Against challenging comparisons, Home & Security grew sales and gained market share. Solid growth for Moen, strong gains for our cabinetry programs at home centers, and sustained global growth for Master Lock more than offset lower sales of advanced material windows and doors. While higher costs for strategic investments, raw materials and transportation impacted Home & Security operating income, each of the businesss segments was profitable in the quarter.
For the second quarter of 2011
:
Net income from continuing operations was $102.9 million, or $0.65 per diluted share, compared to $1.17 in the year-ago quarter when results benefited from a substantial gain from one-time items.
Comparisons reflected the impact of net charges in the current-year period ($0.06 per share) principally related to the companys previously announced plan to separate its business units, compared to net gains in the prior-year period ($0.43 per share) principally due to the resolution of routine income tax audits.
Excluding charges and gains in both the current and prior-year periods, diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.71 versus $0.74 in the year-ago quarter.
Net sales from continuing operations were $1.59 billion, up 5%.
On a comparable basis  excluding excise taxes, foreign exchange and acquisitions/divestitures  and further adjusted for the previously announced new Australia spirits distribution agreement, total net sales would have been up 5%.
Comparable net sales by business unit were: Beam up 13% and Fortune Brands Home & Security up one-half percent.
Operating income from continuing operations was $187.5 million.
Operating income before charges/gains from continuing operations was $199.5 million.
2011 Outlook for Beam
Assuming completion of the separation plan, Beam and Fortune Brands Home & Security anticipate reporting future results as independent companies. Accordingly, each company has established its own earnings target for 2011.
Beam is targeting adjusted pro forma diluted EPS for 2011 to grow at a high-single-digit rate against a base of $1.92 in 2010. Adjusted pro forma is defined as continuing operations results before charges/gains adjusted to assume that Beam was an independent business as of the beginning of 2010, including the impact of public company corporate expense, the businesss underlying tax rate, and the benefit of the debt reduction associated with the separation plan. It is also adjusted for the one-time startup benefit of the new Australia spirits distribution agreement.
With momentum on the top line and the EPS benefit of lower interest expense, were looking forward to a strong year for Beam on an independent company basis, said Matt Shattock, president and chief executive officer of Beam Inc. As a reminder, we expect third quarter results to again reflect our strategy to invest ahead of growth as well boost brand investment by strong double digits to support new product launches and build our core brand equities. We believe our increased 2011 brand investment is priming Beam for profitable long-term growth, and we anticipate brand investment will normalize in the fourth quarter to a relatively constant run rate as a percentage of sales, which will benefit bottom-line comparisons.
2011 Outlook for Fortune Brands Home & Security
Fortune Brands Home & Security is targeting improved results in the second half of 2011. As we look forward to the second half of the year, we feel confident in our continued ability to outperform the market as we benefit from new business wins and pricing actions implemented in the first half, said Chris Klein, president and chief executive officer of Fortune Brands Home & Security. Even though we see a weaker market in the second half than we originally forecasted, we now estimate the market for our products will be relatively flat year-over-year in the back half, which is still a better market than we saw in the first half.
Regarding our performance, while the first half was impacted by continued market weakness, higher costs for raw materials and transportation, and the challenging comparison created by the mid-2010 expiration of the homebuyer tax credit, we anticipate Fortune Brands Home & Security will deliver adjusted pro forma diluted EPS before charges that is flat to up low-double digits in the second half versus 41 cents in the second half of 2010, Klein continued. As a reminder, third quarter results will compare to the year-ago period in which we recorded a 3-cents per share benefit from favorable resolution of patent litigation involving security products. Factoring in our lower first-half results and improvement in the second half, we anticipate full-year adjusted pro forma diluted EPS before charges will be down at a mid-single-digit to low-double-digit rate versus a base of 73 cents in 2010.
For Home & Security, adjusted pro forma is defined as continuing operations results before charges/gains, adjusted to assume that Home & Security was an independent business as of the beginning of 2010, including the impact of an initial debt level of approximately $500 million, the 1:1 share distribution contemplated by the spin-off, public company corporate expense, and its independent company tax rate.
About Fortune Brands
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a leading consumer brands company. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in distilled spirits and home and security products. The major spirits brands of Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. include Jim Beam and Maker's Mark bourbon, Sauza tequila, Canadian Club whisky, Courvoisier cognac, Cruzan rum, Teacher's and Laphroaig Scotch, EFFEN vodka, Skinnygirl cocktails and DeKuyper cordials. The brands of Fortune Brands Home & Security LLC include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Omega, Diamond and Kitchen Craft cabinetry, Therma-Tru door systems, Simonton windows, Master Lock security products and Waterloo storage and organization products. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index and the MSCI World Index.
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit .
www.fortunebrands.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements relating to future results, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the company does not assume any obligation to update, amend or clarify them to reflect events, new information or circumstances occurring after the date of this release. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to: general economic conditions, including the U.S. housing and remodeling market; the expiration of government economic stimulus programs; competitive market pressures (including pricing pressures); successful development of new products and processes; consolidation of customers; customer defaults and related bad debt expense; unanticipated developments that delay or negatively impact the proposed separation; disruption to operations as a result of the proposed separation; inability of one or more of the businesses to operate independently following the completion of the proposed separation; risks pertaining to strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, including the potential financial effects and performance of such acquisitions or joint ventures, and integration of acquisitions and the related confirmation or remediation of internal controls over financial reporting; any possible downgrades of the Company's credit ratings; volatility of financial and credit markets, which could affect access to capital for the Company, its customers and consumers; interest rate fluctuations; commodity and energy price volatility; risks associated with doing business outside the United States, including currency exchange rate risks; ability to secure and maintain rights to intellectual property; inability to attract and retain qualified personnel; the status of the U.S. rum excise tax cover-over program; the impact of excise tax increases on distilled spirits; dependence on performance of distributors and other marketing arrangements; costs of certain employee and retiree benefits and returns on pension assets; tax law changes and/or interpretation of existing tax laws; potential liabilities, costs and uncertainties of litigation; historical consolidated financial statements that may not be indicative of future conditions and results; impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets; weather and natural disasters; as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
In addition to final Board authorization, the potential separation of Fortune Brands' companies will also be subject to the receipt of a number of customary regulatory approvals and/or rulings, the execution of intercompany agreements and finalization of other related matters. There can be no assurance that any of the proposed transactions will be completed as anticipated or at all.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release includes measures not derived in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), such as diluted earnings per share before charges/gains, adjusted pro forma diluted earnings per share, operating income before charges/gains, adjusted pro forma operating income, comparable net sales, comparable operating income, return on equity before charges/gains, return on invested capital before charges/gains, and free cash flow. These measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for any measure derived in accordance with GAAP, and may also be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies. Reconciliation of these measures to the most closely comparable GAAP measures, and reasons for the companys use of these measures, are presented in the attached pages.
Fortune Brands, Inc. (Beam Inc.)
Adjusted Pro Forma Financial Information
The adjusted pro forma income information set forth below is unaudited and has been derived from Fortune Brands, Inc. consolidated financial statements.
The adjusted pro forma information is for informational purposes and is not intended to represent what our operating income and Diluted EPS would have been had the separation transactions occurred on the dates set forth below. The adjusted pro forma information should not be considered indicative of our future results of operations as an independent Spirits company.
Adjusted pro forma is defined as continuing operations results before charges/gains adjusted to assume that Beam Inc. was an independent business as of the beginning of 2010, including the impact of public company corporate expense, the businesss underlying tax rate, and the benefit of the debt reduction associated with the separation plan. It is also adjusted for the one-time startup benefit of the new Australia spirits distribution agreement. More specifically, the adjusted pro forma information gives pro forma effect to the following:
The sale of the Companys Golf segment and spin-off of the Companys Home & Security segment as if both had occurred on January 1, 2010.
The assumed reduction of $1.7 billion of debt on January 1, 2010 as a result of bonds the company intends to tender and repay principally through the use of after-tax proceeds received from the sale of the Golf segment (approximately $1.1 billion) and a tax free dividend from the Home & Security segment (approximately $0.5 billion). The Company estimates the annualized interest expense reduction resulting from this debt reduction will be approximately $60 million (and includes the impact of the expected settlement of related interest rate swaps). The actual reduction in interest expense may differ and is dependent upon the particular bond issuances that are ultimately tendered and retired. As of June 30, 2011, the annual effective interest rate of the Companys debt portfolio was approximately 4.75%.
The elimination of charges/gains associated with (i) restructuring and other charges, (ii) gains/losses on the sales of brands and related assets, (iii) and income tax related credits related to the resolution of foreign and US income tax audit examinations.
The elimination of non-recurring business separation costs incurred to implement the proposed separation of the Companys three businesses.
Adjustments to the Companys corporate office cost structure that are expected to be made upon completion of the separation transactions as if they had occurred on January 1, 2010.
The 2011 impact of the Companys one-time benefit under the new distribution agreement in Australia.
An estimated Beam Inc. standalone effective income tax rate of approximately 25 - 26%.
The adjusted pro forma measures are not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management believes this information provides investors with helpful supplemental information regarding the underlying performance of the Company from period to period were it functioning as an independent spirits company. The adjusted pro forma information may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.
Fortune Brands Home and Security
Adjusted Pro Forma Financial Information
The adjusted pro forma income information of Fortune Brands Home & Security (FBHS) set forth below is unaudited and has been derived from Fortune Brands, Inc.s consolidated financial statements.
The adjusted pro forma information is for informational purposes and is not intended to represent what FBHSs operating income and Diluted EPS would have been had the spin-off of FBHS from Fortune Brands, Inc. occurred on the date indicated below. The adjusted pro forma information should not be considered indicative of FBHSs future results of operations as an independent public company.
Adjusted pro forma is defined as continuing operations results before charges/gains, adjusted to assume that Home & Security was an independent business as of the beginning of 2010, including the impact of an initial debt level of approximately $500 million, the 1:1 share distribution contemplated by the spin-off, public company corporate expense, and its independent company tax rate. More specifically, the adjusted pro forma information gives pro forma effect to the following:
The spin-off of FBHS as if it had occurred on January 1, 2010 including (i) the elimination of all intercompany borrowings with Fortune Brands, (ii) initial bank borrowings by FBHS of $500 million to fund a dividend to Fortune Brands, Inc. immediately prior to the spin-off and (iii) the distribution of FBHS shares to Fortune Brands shareholders at a ratio of 1:1.
Annual FBHS interest cost associated with bank borrowings of approximately $8 million and $6 million in 2010 and 2011, respectively. Annual interest costs are based on the FBHSs anticipated borrowing agreements that will be in place on the date of the spin-off.
Estimated incremental costs required to operate and report as an independent public company as if the spin-off had occurred on January 1, 2010.
The elimination of charges/gains associated with restructuring and other charges attributable to the FBHS business.
An estimated stand-alone FBHS effective income tax rate of approximately 35%.
The adjusted pro forma measures are not derived in accordance with GAAP. Management believes this information provides investors with helpful supplemental information regarding the underlying performance of FBHS from period to period were it functioning as an independent public company. The adjusted pro forma information may be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies.
CONTACT:
Fortune Brands, Inc.
Media Relations:
Clarkson Hine
(847) 484-4415
or
Investor Relations:
Tony Diaz
(847) 484-4410


