FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20110729161140.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 29, 2011, Fortune Brands, Inc. ("Fortune Brands") completed the sale of its Acushnet Company golf business to Alexandria Operations Corp., a special purpose acquisition entity formed by Fila Korea Ltd. and Mirae Asset Private Equity of Korea. The purchase price is $1.225 billion in cash. The purchase price is subject to certain post-closing adjustments. Fortune Brands estimates it will realize net proceeds of approximately $1.1 billion after taxes and expenses.
 
Fortune Brands issued a press release, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference, announcing the completion of the sale of the Acushnet Company golf business to Alexandria Operations Corp., a special purpose acquisition entity formed by Fila Korea Ltd. and Mirae Asset Private Equity for $1.225 billion.
Exhibit 99.2 attached hereto is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing. The furnishing of Exhibit 99.2 attached hereto is not intended to constitute a determination by the Company that the information is material or that the dissemination of the information is required by Regulation FD.
 
(b) Pro-Forma Financial Information.
Unaudited pro forma financial information of Fortune Brands required by Article 11 of Regulation S-X is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 29, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
The following unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements of Fortune Brands, Inc. ("Fortune Brands" or "the Company") give effect to the sale of the Acushnet Company golf business segment. The Acushnet golf business has been accounted for as a discontinued operation in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 205, "Presentation of Financial Statements," as of May 20, 2011. On July 29, 2011, the Company completed the sale of the Acushnet Company golf business to a company formed by Fila Korea Ltd. and Mirae Asset Private Equity of Korea. The purchase price is $1.225 billion in cash. The purchase price is subject to certain post-closing adjustments. Fortune Brands estimates it will realize net proceeds of approximately $1.1 billion after taxes and expenses.
The historical financial information of Fortune Brands set forth below has been derived from the historical audited and unaudited consolidated financial statements of Fortune Brands included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and the Quarterly Report filed on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011. The unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of income were prepared as if the transaction occurred as of January 1, 2008. The impact of the anticipated use of net proceeds to repurchase debt securities is included in the unaudited pro forma consolidated statements of income for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and the year ended December 31, 2010. The unaudited pro forma consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2011 was prepared as if the transaction occurred on that date. Pro forma income statements for the three most recent periods are presented because the treatment of the Acushnet Company golf business as a discontinued operation has not yet been reflected in the historical information of Fortune Brands.
The pro forma adjustments are based on available information and certain assumptions that management believes are reasonable as of the date of this filing. However, actual adjustments may differ materially from the information presented. The adjustments are directly attributable to the transaction and are expected to have a continuing impact on the financial position and results of operations of Fortune Brands. The statements of income do not reflect any adjustments for non-recurring items. In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary to present fairly the unaudited pro forma financial information have been made.
The unaudited pro forma financial information, including notes thereto, should be read in conjunction with the historical financial statements of Fortune Brands included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and the unaudited financial statements filed in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2011.
The unaudited pro forma consolidated financial statements presented do not purport to represent what the results of operations or financial position of Fortune Brands would actually have been had the transaction occurred on the dates presented nor is it intended to be indicative of future results of operations or financial position of Fortune Brands.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
Deerfield, Illinois, July 29, 2011  Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO) today completed the previously announced sale of the Acushnet Company golf business to a group led by Fila Korea Ltd. and Mirae Asset Private Equity. The price was $1.225 billion in cash.
"The sale of Acushnet and its industry-leading Titleist and FootJoy brands represents a major milestone in our plan to separate our businesses to maximize long-term value for our shareholders," said Bruce Carbonari, chairman and chief executive officer of Fortune Brands. "We will use the $1.1 billion in after-tax net proceeds from this transaction to strengthen Fortune Brands' balance sheet, which will support strong capital structures for both Beam and Home & Security as independent businesses." By reducing net debt by approximately 30%, Fortune Brands will lower its debt-to-EBITDA ratio from 3.8 to 3.0.
"Acushnet is a tremendous company built on powerful brands, a management team that's second to none, and a passionate high-performance work force," Carbonari continued. "The people of Acushnet have contributed significantly to Fortune Brands' success over the past 35 years and we wish these talented associates all the best as they write the next chapter in the history of golf's greatest brands."
The final step in Fortune Brands' proposed separation plan is the previously announced spin-off of Fortune Brands Home & Security to shareholders, which remains on track for completion early in the fourth quarter. Assuming completion of the spin-off, Fortune Brands Home & Security will be an independent public company trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "FBHS." The remaining company, a pure-play spirits company to be renamed Beam Inc., intends to trade as "BEAM." The spin-off remains subject to completion of detailed separation plans, customary regulatory approvals and final Board approval.
FORTUNE BRANDS COMPLETES $1.225 BILLION SALE OF ACUSHNET COMPANY GOLF BUSINESS, PAGE 2
 
Fortune Brands was advised on the Acushnet transaction by Morgan Stanley and Centerview Partners as financial advisors and Chadbourne & Parke as legal advisor. Fila Korea and Mirae were advised by Nomura, Korea Development Bank and the M&A and Korean practice groups of counsel McDermott, Will & Emery.
About Fortune Brands
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a leading consumer brands company. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in distilled spirits and home and security products. The major spirits brands of Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. include Jim Beam and Maker's Mark bourbon, Sauza tequila, Canadian Club whisky, Courvoisier cognac, Cruzan rum, Teacher's and Laphroaig Scotch, EFFEN vodka, Skinnygirl margarita and DeKuyper cordials. The brands of Fortune Brands Home & Security LLC include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Omega, Diamond and Kitchen Craft cabinetry, Therma-Tru door systems, Simonton windows, Master Lock security products and Waterloo storage and organization products. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index and the MSCI World Index.
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit .
www.fortunebrands.com
About Fila Korea Ltd.
Fila Korea is the owner of the Fila brand globally. The Fila brand was established in the small textile town of Biella, Italy in 1911 by the Fila brothers. Fila is now a leading manufacturer of sport and leisure footwear and apparel distributed worldwide. The internationally respected company, having gained world class recognition in tennis apparel, has developed brand recognition by marketing high design and style content products that are endorsed by professional athletes from around the world. Fila Korea was listed on the Korea Stock Exchange in September 2010 and is known as one of the fastest growing and most successful companies in Korea.
About Mirae Asset Private Equity
Mirae Asset Private Equity is the leading private equity firm in Korea. As a pioneer in the Korean private equity market, Mirae Asset Private Equity introduced the first Korean private equity fund in 2004. Since then, Mirae Asset Private Equity has led the Korean private equity market demonstrating throughout a history of collaboration with various business partners, which is proven through its track record in adding value to its portfolio companies as well as successful investments. Mirae Asset Private Equity is the private equity arm of the Mirae Asset Financial Group. Mirae Asset Financial Group is an independent diversified financial services company with businesses in asset management, investment banking and life insurance. It is one of the world's largest investors in emerging market equities with a total AUM of approximately USD 100
 
FORTUNE BRANDS COMPLETES $1.225 BILLION SALE OF ACUSHNET COMPANY GOLF BUSINESS, PAGE 3
 
Billion. Mirae Asset Financial Group, headquartered in Seoul, Korea, has offices in major cities all over the world, including New York, London, Hong Kong, Shanghai, Beijing, Mumbai, Sao Paulo, Ho Chi Minh and Singapore.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements relating to future events, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the company does not assume any obligation to update, amend or clarify them to reflect events, new information or circumstances occurring after the date of this release. In addition to final Board authorization, the potential separation of Fortune Brands' companies will also be subject to the receipt of a number of customary regulatory approvals and/or rulings, the execution of intercompany agreements and finalization of other related matters. There can be no assurance that any of the proposed transactions will be completed as anticipated or at all.
Contacts:
Fortune Brands
Media Relations: Clarkson Hine, +1 847-484-4415
Investor Relations: Tony Diaz, +1 847-484-4410
Fila Korea Ltd.
Lauren Mallon (U.S.)
(o) 410.773.3236
(m) 443.527.0400
lmallon@fila.com
Jae W. Byun (Korea)
+822 3470 9691
jbyun@fila.co.kr


