FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20110727084651.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) As previously announced, Fortune Brands, Inc. ("Fortune Brands" or the "Company") plans to spin-off Fortune Brands Home & Security, Inc., the Company's home and security business, to holders of shares of Fortune Brands common stock, subject to completion of detailed separation plans, customary regulatory approvals and final approval by the Company's Board of Directors. In this Current Report on Form 8-K, we refer to this transaction as the "Spin-Off."
Conditioned on the completion of the Spin-Off, (a) each of Bruce A. Carbonari, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company; Craig P. Omtvedt, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company; Mark A. Roche, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company; Patrick J. Koley, Senior Vice President  Strategy & Corporate Development of the Company; and Mark Hausberg, Senior Vice President  Finance and Treasurer of the Company, will cease to serve in their respective positions effective as of date of the Spin-Off and (b) their employment with the Company will terminate effective on or around December 31, 2011.
(c) Conditioned on, and effective as of, the completion of the Spin-Off, Matthew J. Shattock will serve as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and will join the Company's Board of Directors.
Mr. Shattock, age 48, has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. ("Beam Global") since March 2009. Prior to joining Beam Global, Mr. Shattock was at Cadbury, plc, a leading global confectionary manufacturer, from 2003 to 2008, where he served as Region President, leading businesses first in the Americas, then in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. In these capacities, Mr. Shattock was responsible for sales, marketing, operations and overall business results. It is anticipated that Mr. Shattock, as an employee of the Company, will not receive any additional compensation for his service as director.
Conditioned on, and effective as of, the completion of the Spin-Off, Robert F. Probst will serve as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company and Leo A. Mierzwicki will serve as Vice President and Corporate Controller of the Company.
Mr. Probst, age 43, has served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Beam Global since September 2008. Mr. Probst joined Beam Global after serving as Vice President, Finance, Strategy and Business Development at Baxter International, a global healthcare company, from 2005 to 2008, where he was responsible for finance, strategy and M&A for Baxter's $4.0 billion Medication Delivery business unit.
Mr. Mierzwicki, age 41, has served as Vice President and Corporate Controller of Beam Global since May 2009. Mr. Mierzwicki joined Beam Global after serving as Assistant Controller of Trane, Inc. (formerly American Standard Companies), a diversified mechanical products manufacturer, from June 2007 to September 2008, where he was responsible for financial reporting matters. Prior to his employment with Trane, Mr. Mierzwicki was responsible for all finance and reporting matters as Chief Financial Officer of Liberty Lane Partners, a management and strategy advisory firm, from December 2006 to June 2007. Prior thereto, Mr. Mierzwicki was Assistant Corporate Controller with broad financial reporting responsibilities for Fisher Scientific International, Inc., a provider of scientific products and services, from January 2005 to December 2006.
On July 25, 2011, the Compensation and Stock Option Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company approved forms of severance agreement that the Company expects to enter into with each of Mr. Shattock and Mr. Probst prior to the Spin-Off. It is expected that these agreements would provide severance benefits in the event the executive's employment is terminated either by the Company for reasons other than disability or cause, or by the executive for good reason.
The expected severance benefit would consist of:
 
 
 
If Mr. Shattock experiences a qualifying termination of employment other than within 24 months following a change in control, his multiple for severance benefits is expected be two (2). If Mr. Shattock experiences a qualifying termination of employment within 24 months following a change in control, his multiple for severance benefits is expected to be three (3). Mr. Probst's multiples are expected to be one and one-half (1.5) for qualifying terminations occurring other than within 24 months following a change in control and two (2) for qualifying terminations occurring within 24 months following a change in control.
These agreements would require the executive to sign a release of legal claims against the Company in order to receive any severance payments. The agreements would provide that severance benefits may be reduced to the extent necessary to avoid the imposition of an excise tax under Internal Revenue Code Section 280G (but only if the reduced amount would be greater than the net after-tax amount of severance benefits, taking into account payment of the excise tax). The agreements are also expected to contain various restrictive covenants, including a 12-month non-competition restriction for terminations that do not occur within 24 months following a change in control, a 12-month non-solicitation provision and a provision prohibiting the executive and the Company from making disparaging statements about the other either during or after the executive's employment.
The Company expects to enter into new arrangements with Mr. Carbonari and Mr. Omtvedt in connection with the Spin-Off, but the details of such arrangements have not yet been determined. The Company will file an amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K when such information becomes available.
The press release announcing certain of these matters is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 27, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
Fortune Brands, Inc., 520 Lake Cook Road, Deerfield, IL 60015
 
 
 
 
Deerfield, Illinois, July 27, 2011  Fortune Brands, Inc. (NYSE: FO) today announced the Boards of Directors for Beam Inc. and Fortune Brands Home & Security, the standalone public companies to result from the planned separation of its businesses. In connection with the anticipated completion of the plan, Bruce Carbonari, chairman and chief executive officer of Fortune Brands, has decided to retire from the company at year end.
Upon completion of the proposed spin-off of Fortune Brands Home & Security, David Mackay, a current director of Fortune Brands and the former chief executive officer of Kellogg Company, will serve as non-executive chairman of the board of Beam Inc., the new name for Fortune Brands. Mackay has been a director of Fortune Brands since 2006.
David Thomas, the lead director of Fortune Brands and the former chairman and chief executive officer of IMS Health Incorporated, will be the non-executive chairman of the board of Fortune Brands Home & Security, the spin-off company. Thomas has served on the board of Fortune Brands since 2000 and as lead director since 2007.
Matt Shattock will be CEO of Beam and Chris Klein will be CEO of Fortune Brands Home & Security. Fortune Brands is targeting completion of the separation plan early in the fourth quarter.
"I'm very pleased that we've established such strong boards of directors for each of our ongoing businesses," Carbonari said. "These boards are composed of directors with deep and relevant
 
FORTUNE BRANDS NAMES BOARDS OF DIRECTORS FOR INDEPENDENT BUSINESSES FOLLOWING PLANNED SEPARATION, PAGE 2
 
experience, commitment to strong corporate governance, and a track record of promoting the interests of shareholders. David Mackay and David Thomas will be outstanding chairmen, and I couldn't have more confidence in the extremely talented executive leadership already in place at each company.
"I see the anticipated separation of our businesses as a monumental achievement for our leadership team and the perfect time personally to move on to new challenges," Carbonari added. "These two companies will have strong leadership, governance and continuity, and I'll look forward to participating in their future success as a proud and confident shareholder. Once we complete the separation plan, I'll play an advisory role for a brief transition period, and then I'll be eager to take some time before determining the next phase in my career."
"Fortune Brands has benefited tremendously from Bruce's leadership and unparalleled commitment to the interests of shareholders, and the board respects his decision to seek new challenges after completing such a major milestone for the company," said David Thomas, lead director of the Fortune Brands board. "As CEO, Bruce guided Fortune Brands during a period in which its three businesses strengthened their competitive positions and emerged from the economic downturn outperforming the competition. In order to maximize long-term value for shareholders, he then went on to lead the final development and implementation of the plan to separate Fortune Brands' businesses, which will result in two strong, independent companies with outstanding future prospects."
Nine current directors of Fortune Brands will serve on one or both of the new boards.
The members of the board of Beam will be:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FORTUNE BRANDS NAMES BOARDS OF DIRECTORS FOR INDEPENDENT BUSINESSES FOLLOWING PLANNED SEPARATION, PAGE 3
 
The members of the board of Fortune Brands Home & Security will be:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each board expects to add at least one additional member following the separation of the businesses.
Carbonari has held key leadership positions at Fortune Brands for the past 21 years. He became president and chief operating officer of Fortune Brands in December 2006, chief executive officer in January 2008, and chairman and chief executive officer in October 2008. Earlier in his career, Carbonari oversaw the growth of Moen during the 1990s as it became the number one faucet brand in North America; in the early 2000s, Carbonari led the Home & Hardware group (now known as Fortune Brands Home & Security) as it more than doubled sales to nearly $5 billion. More recently, Carbonari guided the evolution of the company's Beam spirits business into the global outperformer that it is today.
Under the separation plan, the company intends to complete the sale of its golf business by the end of July to a group led by Fila Korea and Mirae Asset Private Equity, and is preparing for the spin-off to shareholders of Fortune Brands Home & Security. Completion of the separation remains subject to completion of detailed separation plans, customary regulatory approvals and final Board approval.
About Fortune Brands
Fortune Brands, Inc. is a leading consumer brands company. Its operating companies have premier brands and leading market positions in distilled spirits, home and security, and golf products. The major spirits brands of Beam Global Spirits & Wine, Inc. include Jim Beam and Maker's Mark bourbon, Sauza tequila, Canadian Club whisky, Courvoisier cognac, Cruzan rum,
 
FORTUNE BRANDS NAMES BOARDS OF DIRECTORS FOR INDEPENDENT BUSINESSES FOLLOWING PLANNED SEPARATION, PAGE 4
 
Teacher's and Laphroaig Scotch, EFFEN vodka, Skinnygirl margarita and DeKuyper cordials. The brands of Fortune Brands Home & Security LLC include Moen faucets, Aristokraft, Omega, Diamond and Kitchen Craft cabinetry, Therma-Tru door systems, Simonton windows, Master Lock security products and Waterloo storage and organization products. Acushnet Company's golf brands include Titleist and FootJoy. Fortune Brands, headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FO and is included in the S&P 500 Index and the MSCI World Index.
To receive company news releases by e-mail, please visit www.fortunebrands.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains statements relating to future events, which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the company does not assume any obligation to update, amend or clarify them to reflect events, new information or circumstances occurring after the date of this release. In addition to final Board authorization, the potential separation of Fortune Brands' companies will also be subject to the receipt of a number of customary regulatory approvals and/or rulings, the execution of intercompany agreements and finalization of other related matters. There can be no assurance that any of the proposed transactions will be completed as anticipated or at all.


