FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20120427084406.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b) Pursuant to the Beam Inc. (the "Company") retirement age policy, Anne M. Tatlock retired from the Company's Board of Directors effective April 24, 2012. The Company's policy requires directors to retire after the Annual Meeting of Stockholders following their 72nd birthday.
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The Company held its Annual Meeting of Stockholders on April 24, 2012. At the Annual Meeting, our stockholders (i) elected the persons listed below to serve as directors for a term of one year expiring at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and until their successors are duly elected and qualified; (ii) ratified the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to serve as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for 2012; (iii) approved the compensation paid to the Company's named executive officers; (iv) approved the Beam Inc. 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan; and (v) re-approved the Annual Executive Incentive Compensation Plan. Set forth below are the voting results for each of these proposals:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 27, 2012


