FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20121127164553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 20, 2012, Beam Inc. (the "Company") completed the previously announced redemption of all outstanding shares of the Company's $2.67 Convertible Preferred Stock that had not been converted in accordance with their terms into shares of common stock of the Company. As a result of such redemption, there are no longer any issued and outstanding shares of $2.67 Convertible Preferred Stock of the Company. On November 21, 2012, the Company filed with the Delaware Secretary of State a Certificate of Retirement of $2.67 Convertible Preferred Stock to eliminate from its Restated Certificate of Incorporation all references to the $2.67 Convertible Preferred Stock.
The Company also filed on November 21, 2012 with the Delaware Secretary of State a Certificate of Elimination of the Company's Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. No shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock were then outstanding. As a result of the filing of the Certificate of Elimination, all references to the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock were eliminated from the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
In addition, on November 21, 2012, the Company filed a Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Delaware Secretary of State which removes references to the $2.67 Convertible Preferred Stock and the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.
A copy of the Certificate of Retirement of $2.67 Convertible Preferred Stock, the Certificate of Elimination of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock and the Restated Certificate of Incorporation are attached hereto as Exhibits 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information set forth under Item 3.03 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 5.03.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
Pursuant to Section 243 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, Beam Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), hereby certifies as follows:
1. The Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation authorizes the issuance of 5,514,459 shares of $2.67 Convertible Preferred Stock, all of which have been issued.
2. On November 20, 2012, all outstanding shares of $2.67 Convertible Preferred Stock that had not been converted in accordance with their terms into shares of common stock of the Corporation were redeemed pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation and, as a result thereof, no shares of $2.67 Convertible Preferred Stock are outstanding.
3. The Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that, as the shares of $2.67 Convertible Preferred Stock were redeemed out of capital, the redemption shall effect their retirement and that they shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares without series designation. The Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation precludes the issuance of the retired shares of $2.67 Convertible Preferred Stock as part of the same series of preferred stock and the retired shares will resume the status of authorized but unissued shares of the preferred stock of the Corporation without series designation.
4. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 243 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, upon the effective date of this Certificate of Retirement, the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation shall be amended to eliminate all references therefrom to the $2.67 Convertible Preferred Stock.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate of Retirement to be signed by Kenton R. Rose, its Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Administrative Officer and Secretary, this 20th day of November, 2012.
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, Beam Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), hereby certifies as follows:
1. Pursuant to Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and authority granted in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as theretofore amended, the board of directors of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors") adopted resolutions creating and authorizing the issuance of a series of 2,500,000 shares of preferred stock, without par value, designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" (the "Series A Preferred Stock") and fixing the designations, powers, preferences and relative and other special rights and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof.
2. On December 22, 1997, the Corporation filed an Amended Certificate of Designation with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, and on February 4, 1999, upon the filing of a Restated Certificate of Incorporation pursuant to Section 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock theretofore contained in the Amended Certificate of Designation were integrated into the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
3. No shares of Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding, and no shares of Series A Preferred Stock will be issued.
4. On October 4, 2012, the Board of Directors adopted the following resolutions:
RESOLVED, that no shares of Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding and no shares of Series A Preferred Stock will be issued subject to the Amended Certificate of Designation filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on December 22, 1997, the terms of which were subsequently integrated into this Company's restated certificate of incorporation on February 4, 1999; and further
RESOLVED, that all matters with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock set forth in this Company's restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, shall be eliminated; and further
RESOLVED, that each of the President and Chief Executive Officer, any Senior Vice President, the Vice President and Treasurer and any Assistant Treasurer of
this Company is authorized in the name and on behalf of this Company to file a certificate with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware setting forth these resolutions for the purpose of eliminating from this Company's restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, all matters set forth therein with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock.
5. In accordance with the provisions of Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, all matters with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock are eliminated from the Corporation's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate of Elimination to be signed by Kenton R. Rose, its Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Administrative Officer and Secretary, this 20th day of November, 2012.
 

Exhibit 3.3
 
Beam Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "Company"), hereby certifies as follows:
A. The name of the Company is Beam Inc. The original certificate of incorporation of the Company was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on October 1, 1985 under the name American Brands Holding Company.
B. This restated certificate of incorporation was duly adopted in accordance with Section 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and only restates and integrates and does not further amend the provisions of the Company's certificate of incorporation as heretofore amended or supplemented, and there is no discrepancy between those provisions and the provisions of this restated certificate of incorporation.
C. The text of the certificate of incorporation of the Company is hereby restated to read in its entirety as follows:
The name of the Corporation is Beam Inc. (the "Company").
The address of the Company's registered office in the State of Delaware is 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name of its registered agent at such address is United States Corporation Company.
The purpose of the Company is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
1. The total number of shares of all classes of stock that the Company shall have authority to issue is eight hundred and ten million (810,000,000) shares, of which seven hundred and fifty million (750,000,000) shares shall be Common Stock, par value $3.125 per share, and sixty million (60,000,000) shares shall be Preferred Stock, without par value. The designations and the powers, preferences and rights of the Common Stock and the Preferred Stock, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, are as provided in or pursuant to this Article IV.
2. (a) The rights of holders of Common Stock to receive dividends or to share in the distribution of assets in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the
Company shall be subject to the preferences and other rights of the Preferred Stock as may be fixed in this Certificate of Incorporation or in the resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors providing for the issue of such Preferred Stock.
(b) The holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to one vote for each share of Common Stock held by them of record at the time for determining the holders thereof entitled to vote.
3. Authority is hereby vested in the Board of Directors to issue from time to time the Preferred Stock in one or more series and to fix by the resolution of resolutions providing for the issue of shares of any such series the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of such series to the full extent permitted by this Certificate of Incorporation and the law of the State of Delaware. The authority of the Board of Directors with respect to each such series shall include, but not be limited to, determination of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. The number of authorized shares of any class or classes of stock of the Company may be increased or decreased by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the stock of the Company that is entitled to vote, without a separate class vote of any class or classes of stock of the Company, except as may be otherwise provided in this Certificate of Incorporation or in the resolution or resolutions fixing the voting rights of any series of the Preferred Stock.
5. No holder of Common Stock or Preferred Stock, as such, shall have or be entitled to any preemptive right whatsoever.
Except for any By-law that by its terms states that it may be amended or repealed only by action of the stockholders, the Board of Directors is authorized to adopt, amend or repeal the By-laws of the Company.
Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Company must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and may not be effected by any consent in writing by stockholders. Special meetings of stockholders of the Company may be called only by the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Board of Directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board, or by the Secretary, to the extent required by the by-laws of the Company, upon the written request of the holders of record of not less than 25% (the "Requisite Percent") of the voting power of the Common Stock.
[Intentionally left blank]
1. Except as otherwise provided for, or fixed by, or pursuant to the provisions of Article IV of this Certificate of Incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock, the number of the directors of the Company shall be fixed from time to time by a resolution of the Board but shall not exceed 20. Subject to the special right of the holders of any class or series of stock to elect directors:
 
 
 
 
Each director elected at any Annual Meeting shall hold office until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified.
2. Subject to the rights of holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock, nominations for the election of directors may be made by the Board of Directors or by any record owner of stock of the Company authorized to be issued from time to time under Article IV of this Certificate of Incorporation and entitled to be voted generally in the election of directors ("Voting Stock"). Any such stockholder, however, may nominate one or more persons for election as director at a meeting only if written notice of such stockholder's intent to make such nomination or nominations has been given, either by personal delivery or by United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary of the Company not later than (a) with respect to an election to be held at an annual meeting of stockholders, one hundred twenty (120) days in advance of such meeting, and (b) with respect to an election to be held at a special meeting of stockholders for the election of directors, the close of business on the seventh day
 
following the earlier of (i) the date on which notice of such meeting is first given to stockholders and (ii) the date on which a public announcement of such meeting is first made Each such notice shall include (1) the name and address of each stockholder of record who intends to appear in person or by proxy to make the nomination and of the person or persons to be nominated; (2) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the stockholder; (3) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such stockholder as would have been required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission; and (4) the consent of each nominee to serve as a director of the Company if so elected. The chairman of the meeting may refuse to acknowledge the nomination of any person not made in compliance with the foregoing procedure.
3. Except as otherwise provided for, or fixed by, or pursuant to the provisions of Article IV of this Certificate of Incorporation relating to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock, newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of directors or any vacancy on the Board of Directors resulting from death, resignation, disqualification, removal or other cause shall be filled solely by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office, even though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, or by a sole remaining director. Any director elected in accordance with the preceding sentence shall hold office (a) if, at the time of such director's election, the Board of Directors is classified pursuant to Article VIII, Section 1 of this Certificate of Incorporation, for the remainder of the full term of the class of directors in which the new directorship or vacancy was created or (b) if, at the time of such director's election, the Board of Directors has ceased to be classified pursuant to Article VIII, Section 1 of this Certificate of Incorporation, for a term expiring at the next Annual Meeting of stockholders, and in each case until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
4. Subject to the special right of the holders of any class or series of stock to elect directors, (a) prior to the time at which the Board ceases to be classified pursuant to Article VIII, Section 1 of this Certificate of Incorporation, directors may be removed only for cause and (b) from and after the time at which the Board ceases to be classified pursuant to Article VIII, Section 1 of this Certificate of Incorporation, any director or the entire Board may be removed with or without cause, provided that any removal pursuant to clause (a) or (b) shall require the affirmative vote of at least a majority of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, at any Annual Meeting of stockholders of the Company or at any special meeting of stockholders of the Company, the notice of which shall state that the removal of any director(s) or the entire Board is among the purposes of the meeting.
No director of the Company shall be personally liable to the Company or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director; provided, however, that the foregoing clause shall not apply to any liability of a director to the extent provided by applicable law (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the Company or its stockholders, (ii) for
 
acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. Neither the amendment nor the repeal of this Article IX, nor the adoption of any provision of this Certificate of Incorporation inconsistent with this Article IX, shall be effective with respect to any cause of action, suit, claim or other matter that, but for this Article IX, would accrue or arise prior to such amendment, repeal or adoption of an inconsistent provision.
The Company reserves the right to amend, alter or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of Incorporation in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, and all rights of stockholders herein are subject to this reservation.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be signed by a duly authorized officer of the Company on this 20th day of November, 2012.
 
 


