FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20121010160155.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) On October 3, 2012, the Compensation and Benefits Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Beam Inc. (the "Company") approved the adoption of the Beam Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). The Plan is an unfunded, nonqualified deferred compensation plan intended to conform to the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The Plan is effective as of January 1, 2013 and provides an opportunity for eligible employees, including members of senior management, to voluntarily defer receipt of a portion of their respective cash compensation. The amount of compensation to be deferred by each participating employee (individually, a "participant" and collectively, the "participants"), if any, is determined in accordance with the Plan based on each participant's election. Deferred compensation under the Plan is payable in cash on a date or dates selected by each participant at the time of enrollment, subject to change in certain specified circumstances.
Amounts deferred under the Plan will be credited to bookkeeping accounts maintained by the Company for each participant, adjusted for any gains or losses attributable to the performance of hypothetical investment options selected by the participant. Payment obligations pursuant to the Plan are unsecured general obligations of the Company. The Committee may amend the Plan from time to time, except that no amendment may reduce the accrued and vested amount of a participant's account immediately prior to the time the amendment is adopted.
This summary of the terms of the Plan is not intended to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Plan, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
March 2012
 
 
 
 
The Plan is intended to be a "plan which is unfunded and is maintained by an employer primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees" within the meaning of Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or an "excess benefit plan" within the meaning of Section 3(36) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or a combination of both. The Plan is further intended to conform with the requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and the final regulations issued thereunder and shall be interpreted, implemented and administered in a manner consistent therewith.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except as otherwise indicated by the Plan Sponsor in Section 1.01 of the Adoption Agreement, amounts deferred before January 1, 2005 that are earned and vested on December 31, 2004 will be separately accounted for and administered in accordance with the terms of the Plan as in effect on December 31, 2004.
 
Pronouns used in the Plan are in the masculine gender but include the feminine gender unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Wherever used herein, the following terms have the meanings set forth below, unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Whether a termination of employment has occurred is based on whether the facts and circumstances indicate that the Related Employer and the Participant reasonably anticipated that no further services would be performed after a certain date or that the level of bona fide services the Participant would perform after such date (whether as an employee or as an independent contractor) would permanently decrease to no more than 20 percent of the average level of bona fide services performed (whether as an employee or an independent contractor) over the immediately preceding 36 month period (or the full period of services to the Related Employer if the employee has been providing services to the Related Employer for less than 36 months).
An independent contractor is considered to have experienced a Separation from Service with the Related Employer upon the expiration of the contract (or, in the case of more than one contract, all contracts) under which services are performed for the Related Employer if the expiration constitutes a good-faith and complete termination of the contractual relationship.
If a Participant provides services as both an employee and an independent contractor of the Related Employer, the Participant must separate from service both as an employee and as an independent contractor to be treated as having incurred a Separation from Service. If a Participant ceases providing services as an independent contractor and begins providing services as an employee, or ceases providing services as an employee and begins providing services as an independent contractor, the Participant will not be considered to have experienced a Separation from Service until the Participant has ceased providing services in both capacities.
 
If a Participant provides services both as an employee and as a member of the board of directors of a corporate Related Employer (or an analogous position with respect to a noncorporate Related Employer), the services provided as a director are not taken into account in determining whether the Participant has incurred a Separation from Service as an employee for purposes of a nonqualified deferred compensation plan in which the Participant participates as an employee that is not aggregated under Code Section 409A with any plan in which the Participant participates as a director.
If a Participant provides services both as an employee and as a member of the board of directors of a corporate related Employer (or an analogous position with respect to a noncorporate Related Employer), the services provided as an employee are not taken into account in determining whether the Participant has experienced a Separation from Service as a director for purposes of a nonqualified deferred compensation plan in which the Participant participates as a director that is not aggregated under Code Section 409A with any plan in which the Participant participates as an employee.
All determinations of whether a Separation from Service has occurred will be made in a manner consistent with Code Section 409A and the final regulations thereunder.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A new deferral agreement must be timely executed for each Plan Year during which the Eligible Employee or Director desires to defer Compensation. An Eligible Employee or Director who does not timely execute a deferral agreement shall be deemed to have elected zero deferrals of Compensation for such Plan Year.
A deferral agreement may be changed or revoked during the period specified by the Administrator. Except as provided in Section 9.3 or in Section 4.01(c) of the Adoption Agreement, a deferral agreement becomes irrevocable at the close of the specified period.
 
 
 
Except as otherwise provided below, an employee who is classified or designated as an Eligible Employee during a Plan Year or a Director who is designated as eligible to participate during a Plan Year may elect to defer Compensation otherwise payable during the remainder of such Plan Year in accordance with the rules of this Section 4.3 by executing a deferral agreement within the thirty (30) day period beginning on the date the employee is classified or designated as an Eligible Employee or the date the Director is designated as eligible, whichever is applicable, if permitted by Section 4.01(b)(ii) of the Adoption Agreement. If Compensation is based on a specified performance period that begins before the Eligible Employee or Director executes his deferral agreement, the election will be deemed to apply to the portion of such Compensation equal to the total amount of Compensation for the performance period multiplied by the ratio of the number of days remaining in the performance period after the election becomes irrevocable and effective over the total number of days in the performance period. The rules of this paragraph shall not apply unless the Eligible Employee or Director can be treated as initially eligible in accordance with Reg. Sec. 1.409A-2(a)(7).
 
All elections of a payment schedule and a form of payment will be made in accordance with rules and procedures established by the Administrator and the provisions of this Section 4.4.
(a) If the Plan Sponsor has elected to permit annual distribution elections in accordance with Section 6.01(h) of the Adoption Agreement the following rules apply. At the time an Eligible Employee or Director completes a deferral agreement, the Eligible Employee or Director must elect a distribution event (which includes a specified time) and a form of payment for the Compensation subject to the deferral agreement from among the options the Plan Sponsor has made available for this purpose and which are specified in 6.01(b) of the Adoption Agreement. Prior to the time required by Reg. Sec. 1.409A-2, the Eligible Employee or Director shall elect a distribution event (which includes a specified time) and a form of payment for any Employer contributions that may be credited to the Participant's Account during the Plan Year. If an Eligible Employee or Director fails to elect a distribution event, he shall be deemed to have elected Separation from Service as the distribution event. If he fails to elect a form of payment, he shall be deemed to have elected a lump sum form of payment.
 
(b) If the Plan Sponsor has elected not to permit annual distribution elections in accordance with Section 6.01(h) of the Adoption Agreement the following rules apply. At the time an Eligible Employee or Director first completes a deferral agreement but in no event later than the time required by Reg. Sec. 1.409A-2, the Eligible Employee or Director must elect a distribution event (which includes a specified time) and a form of payment for amounts credited to his Account from among the options the Plan Sponsor has made available for this purpose and which are specified in Section 6.01(b) of the Adoption Agreement. If an Eligible Employee or Director fails to elect a distribution event, he shall be deemed to have elected Separation from Service in the distribution event. If the fails to elect a form of payment, he shall be deemed to have elected a lump sum form of payment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Participant's right to the amounts credited to his Account attributable to Employer contributions made in accordance with Article 5 shall be determined in accordance with the relevant schedule and provisions in Section 7.01 of the Adoption Agreement. Upon a Separation from Service and after application of the provisions of Section 7.01 of the Adoption Agreement, the Participant shall forfeit the nonvested portion of his Account.
 
A Participant may designate a Beneficiary or Beneficiaries, or change any prior designation of Beneficiary or Beneficiaries in accordance with rules and procedures established by the Administrator.
A copy of the death notice or other sufficient documentation must be filed with and approved by the Administrator. If upon the death of the Participant there is, in the opinion of the Administrator, no designated Beneficiary for part or all of the Participant's vested Account, such amount will be paid to his estate (such estate shall be deemed to be the Beneficiary for purposes of the Plan) in accordance with the provisions of Article 9.
 
 
 
 
 
 
extent such liquidation would not itself cause severe financial hardship, or (c) by cessation of deferrals under the Plan. A distribution due to an Unforeseeable Emergency must be limited to the amount reasonably necessary to satisfy the emergency need and may include any amounts necessary to pay any federal, state, foreign or local income taxes and penalties reasonably anticipated to result from the distribution. The distribution will be made in the form of a single lump sum cash payment. If permitted by Section 8.01(b) of the Adoption Agreement, a Participant's deferral elections for the remainder of the Plan Year will be cancelled upon a withdrawal due to an Unforeseeable Emergency. If the payment of all or any portion of the Participant's vested Account is being delayed in accordance with Section 9.6 at the time he experiences an Unforeseeable Emergency, the amount being delayed shall not be subject to the provisions of this Section 9.3 until the expiration of the six month period of delay required by section 9.6.
 
 
 
 
Key Employee are delayed in accordance with this Section 9.6, the payments to which the Key Employee would otherwise have been entitled during the six month period shall be accumulated and paid in a single lump sum at the time specified in Section 6.01(a) of the Adoption Agreement after the six month period elapses.
(a) A Participant is treated as a Key Employee if (i) he is employed by a Related Employer any of whose stock is publicly traded on an established securities market, and (ii) he satisfies the requirements of Code Section 416(i)(1)(A)(i), (ii) or (iii), determined without regard to Code Section 416(i)(5), at any time during the twelve month period ending on the Identification Date.
(b) A Participant who is a Key Employee on an Identification Date shall be treated as a Key Employee for purposes of the six month delay in distributions for the twelve month period beginning on the first day of a month no later than the fourth month following the Identification Date. The Identification Date and the effective date of the delay in distributions shall be determined in accordance with Section 1.06 of the Adoption Agreement.
(c) The Plan Sponsor may elect to apply an alternative method to identify Participants who will be treated as Key Employees for purposes of the six month delay in distributions if the method satisfies each of the following requirements. The alternative method is reasonably designed to include all Key Employees, is an objectively determinable standard providing no direct or indirect election to any Participant regarding its application, and results in either all Key Employees or no more than 200 Key Employees being identified in the class as of any date. Use of an alternative method that satisfies the requirements of this Section 9.6(c ) will not be treated as a change in the time and form of payment for purposes of Reg. Sec. 1.409A-2(b).
(d) The six month delay does not apply to payments described in Section 9.9(a),(b) or (d) or to payments that occur after the death of the Participant. If the payment of all or any portion of the Participant's vested Account is being delayed in accordance with this Section 9.6 at the time he incurs a Disability which would otherwise require a distribution under the terms of the Plan, no amount shall be paid until the expiration of the six month period of delay required by this Section 9.6.
 
 
(a) "Change in Control" means "change in control" as defined in an employment or change in control agreement applicable to the Participant, or if no such document or definition exists, a "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if prior to the Participant's termination of employment:
(i) any person (as that term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") as in effect on the date of this Plan) (1) is or becomes the beneficial owner (as that term is used in Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as in effect on the date of this Agreement) of 50% or more of the total fair market value or total voting power of the Company ("Voting Securities"); or (2) acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person) ownership of the stock of the Company possessing 30% or more of the Voting Securities, excluding, in, in each case, however the following: (A) any acquisition directly from the Company, other than an acquisition by virtue of the exercise of a conversion privilege unless the security being so converted was itself acquired directly from the Company; (B) any acquisition by the Company; (C) any acquisition by an employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any entity controlled by the Company; (D) the acquisition of additional stock or voting power by a person considered to own more than 50% of the total fair market value or Voting Securities in the case of clause (1) of this clause (i) or by a person considered to own more than 30% of the Voting Securities in the case of clause (2) of this clause (i); or (E) any acquisition pursuant to a transaction that complies with clauses (A), (B), and (C) of clause (iii) below;
(ii) more than 50% of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company shall, during a 12-month period, cease to be Continuing Directors (which term, as used herein, means the directors of the Company: (A) who were members of the Board on the date hereof; or (B) who subsequently became directors of the Company and who were elected or designated to be candidates for election as nominees of the Board, or whose election or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was otherwise approved, by a vote of a majority of the
 
Continuing Directors then on the Board but shall not include, in any event, any individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of either an actual or threatened election contest (as such terms are used in Rule 14(a)-11 of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act) or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a person other than the Board); or
(iii) the Company shall be merged or consolidated with, or, in any transaction or series of transactions, substantially all of the business or assets of the Company shall be sold or otherwise acquired by, another corporation or entity unless, as a result of: (A) the stockholders of the Company immediately prior thereto shall beneficially own, directly or indirectly, at least 60% of the combined Voting Securities of the surviving, resulting or transferee corporation or entity (including, without limitation, a corporation that as a result of such transaction own the Company or all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) ("Newco") immediately thereafter in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such corporate transaction; (B) no person beneficially owns (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (as in effect on the date hereof)), directly or indirectly, 30% or more of the combined Voting Securities of Newco immediately after such corporate transaction except to the extent that such ownership of the Company existed prior to such corporate transaction; and (C) more than 50% of the members of the Board of Directors of Newco shall be Continuing Directors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
termination does not occur proximate to a downturn in the financial health of the Plan sponsor. The Plan Sponsor also reserves the right to amend the Plan to provide that termination of the Plan will occur under such conditions and events as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury in generally applicable guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If any person believes he is being denied any rights or benefits under the Plan, such person may file a claim in writing with the Administrator. If any such claim is wholly or partially denied, the Administrator will notify such person of its decision in writing. Such notification will contain (i) specific reasons for the denial, (ii) specific reference to pertinent Plan provisions, (iii) a description of any additional material or information necessary for such person to perfect such claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary, and (iv) a description of the Plan's review procedures and the time limits applicable to such procedures, including a statement of the person's right to bring a civil action following an adverse decision on review. Such notification will be given within 90 days (45 days in the case of a claim regarding Disability) after the claim is received by the Administrator. The Administrator may extend the period for providing the notification by 90 days (30 days in the case of a claim regarding Disability) if special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim and if written notice of such extension and circumstance is given to such person within the initial 90 day period (45 day period in the case of a claim regarding Disability). If such notification is not given within such period, the claim will be considered denied as of the last day of such period and such person may request a review of his claim.
 
Within 60 days (180 days in the case of a claim regarding Disability) after the date on which a person receives a written notification of denial of claim (or, if written notification is not provided, within 60 days (180 days in the case of a claim regarding Disability) of the date denial is considered to have occurred), such person (or his duly authorized representative) may (i) file a written request with the Administrator for a review of his denied claim and of pertinent documents and (ii) submit written issues and comments to the Administrator. The Administrator will notify such person of its decision in writing. Such notification will be written in a manner calculated to be understood by such person and will contain specific reasons for the decision as well as specific references to pertinent Plan provisions. The notification will explain that the person is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge,
 
reasonable access to and copies of all pertinent documents and has the right to bring a civil action following an adverse decision on review. The decision on review will be made within 60 days (45 days in the case of a claim regarding Disability). The Administrator may extend the period for making the decision on review by 60 days (45 days in the case of a claim regarding Disability) if special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the request such as an election by the Administrator to hold a hearing, and if written notice of such extension and circumstances is given to such person within the initial 60-day period (45 days in the case of a claim regarding Disability). If the decision on review is not made within such period, the claim will be considered denied.
 
No action at law or equity shall be brought more than one (1) year after the Administrator's affirmation of a denial of a claim, or, if earlier, more than four (4) years after the facts or events giving rising to the claimant's allegation(s) or claim(s) first occurred.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
direct the Employer to disburse such payments to a person or institution designated by a court which has jurisdiction over such recipient or a person or institution otherwise having the legal authority under State law for the care and control of such recipient. The receipt by such person or institution of any such payments therefore, and any such payment to the extent thereof, shall discharge the liability of the Employer, the Plan and the Administrator for the payment of benefits hereunder to such recipient.
 
 
 
(b) The right to indemnification provided in this Section shall include the right to have the expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in defending any Proceeding paid by the Employer in advance of the final disposition of the Proceeding, to the fullest extent permitted by the law of the jurisdiction in which the Employer is incorporated; provided that, if such law requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in advance of the final disposition of a Proceeding shall be made only on delivery to the Employer of
 
an undertaking, by or on behalf of the Indemnitee, to repay all amounts so advanced without interest if it shall ultimately be determined that the Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified under this Section or otherwise.
(c) Indemnification pursuant to this Section shall continue as to an Indemnitee who has ceased to be such and shall inure to the benefit of his heirs, executors, and administrators. The Employer agrees that the undertakings made in this Section shall be binding on its successors or assigns and shall survive the termination, amendment or restatement of the Plan.
(d) The foregoing right to indemnification shall be in addition to such other rights as the Indemnitee may enjoy as a matter of law or by reason of insurance coverage of any kind and is in addition to and not in lieu of any rights to indemnification to which the Indemnitee may be entitled pursuant to the by-laws of the Employer.
(e) For the purposes of this Section, the following definitions shall apply:
(1) "Indemnitee" shall mean each person serving as an Administrator (or any other person who is an employee, director, or officer of the Employer) who was or is a party to, or is threatened to be made a party to, or is otherwise involved in, any Proceeding, by reason of the fact that he is or was performing administrative functions under the Plan.
(2) "Proceeding" shall mean any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit, or proceeding (including, without limitation, an action, suit, or proceeding by or in the right of the Employer), whether civil, criminal, administrative, investigative, or through arbitration.
 
 
 
 
 
By the execution of this Adoption Agreement the Plan Sponsor
hereby [complete (a) or (b)]
 
 
Plan Name:
Beam Executive Deferred Compensation Plan
Plan Year:
December 31
 
 
Is stock of the Plan Sponsor, any Employer or any Related Employer publicly traded on an established securities market?
 
 
The following entities have been authorized by the Plan Sponsor to participate in and have adopted the Plan (insert "Not Applicable" if none have been authorized):
 
 
The Plan Sponsor has designated the following party or parties to be responsible for the administration of the Plan:
 
 
 
The Employer has designated
April 1
st
as the Identification Date for purposes of determining Key Employees.
In the absence of a designation, the Identification Date is December 31.
The Employer has designated as the effective date for purposes of applying the six month delay in distributions to Key Employees.
                    
In the absence of a designation, the effective date is the first day of the fourth month following the Identification Date.
 
 
 
For purposes of determining Participant contributions under Article 4 and Employer contributions under Article 5, Compensation shall be defined in the following manner [complete (a) or (b) and select (c) and/or (d), if applicable]:
 
 
Compensation, as defined in Section 3.01 of the Adoption Agreement, includes the following type of bonuses that will be the subject of a separate deferral election:
 
 
 
If Participant contributions are permitted, complete (a), (b), and (c). Otherwise complete (d).
 
A Participant may elect within the period specified in Section 4.01(b) of the Adoption Agreement to defer the following amounts of remuneration. For each type of remuneration listed, complete "dollar amount" and / or "percentage amount".
 
 
Note: The increment is required to determine the permissible deferral amounts. For example, a minimum of 0% and maximum of 20% with a 5% increment would allow an individual to defer 0%, 5%, 10%, 15% or 20%.
(ii) Bonuses [do not complete if you complete (iii)]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A special election period
 
apply to each eligible type of performance based compensation referenced in Section 3.02 of the Adoption Agreement.
The special election period, if applicable, will be determined by the Employer.
 
An employee who is classified or designated as an Eligible Employee during a Plan Year
 
elect to defer Compensation earned during the remainder of the Plan Year by completing a deferral agreement within the 30 day period beginning on the date he is eligible to participate in the Plan.
 
A Participant's deferral agreement
 
be cancelled for the remainder of any Plan Year during which he receives a hardship distribution of elective deferrals from a qualified cash or deferred arrangement maintained by the Employer to the extent necessary to satisfy the requirements of Reg. Sec. 1.401(k)-1(d)(3). If cancellation occurs, the Participant may resume participation in accordance with Article 4 of the Plan.
 
 
 
If Employer contributions are permitted, complete (a) and/or (b). Otherwise complete (c).
 
 
For each Plan Year, the Employer shall make a Matching Contribution on behalf of each Participant who defers Compensation for the Plan Year and satisfies the requirements of Section 5.01(a)(ii) of the Adoption Agreement equal to [complete the ones that are applicable]:
 
 
A Participant who defers Compensation for the Plan Year shall receive an allocation of Matching Contributions determined in accordance with Section 5.01(a)(i) provided he satisfies the following requirements [complete the ones that are applicable]:
 
 
Matching Contributions, if made, shall be treated as allocated [select one]:
 
 
 
The Employer shall make a contribution on behalf of each Participant who satisfies the requirements of Section 5.01(b)(ii) equal to [complete the ones that are applicable]:
 
 
A Participant shall receive an allocation of other Employer contributions determined in accordance with Section 5.01(b)(i) for the Plan Year if he satisfies the following requirements [complete the one that is applicable]:
 
 
Employer contributions, if made, shall be treated as allocated [select one]:
 
 
 
 
The timing and form of payment of distributions made from the Participant's vested Account shall be made in accordance with the elections made in this Section 6.01 of the Adoption Agreement except when Section 9.6 of the Plan requires a six month delay for certain distributions to Key Employees of publicly traded companies.
 
 
 
 
Participants may elect the following payment events and the associated form or forms of payment. If multiple events are selected, the earliest to occur will trigger payment. For installments, insert the range of available periods (e.g., 5-15) or insert the periods available (e.g., 5,7,9).
 
The minimum deferral period for Specified Date or Specified Age event shall be years.
two
Installments may be paid [select each that applies]
 
(c) Specified Date and Specified Age elections may not extend beyond age [insert age or "Not Applicable" if no maximum age applies].
Not Applicable
 
Payment of the remaining vested balance of the Participant's Account will automatically occur at the time specified in Section 6.01(a) of the Adoption Agreement in the form indicated upon the earliest to occur of the following events [check each event that applies and for each event include only a single form of payment]:
 
 
 
 
 
 
A Participant
 
be permitted to modify a scheduled distribution date and/or payment option in accordance with Section 9.2 of the Plan.
A Participant shall generally be permitted to elect such modification number of times.
          
Administratively, allowable distribution events will be modified to reflect all options necessary to fulfill the distribution change election provision.
 
The Plan Sponsor
 
Elected to permit annual elections of a time and form of payment for amounts deferred under the Plan. If a single election of a time and/or form of payment is required, the Participant will make such election at the time he first completes a deferral agreement which, in all cases, will be no later than the time required by Reg. Sec. 1.409A-2.
 
 
The Participant's vested interest in the amount credited to his Account attributable to Matching Contributions shall be based on the following schedule:
 
 
The Participant's vested interest in the amount credited to his Account attributable to Employer contributions other than Matching Contributions shall be based on the following schedule:
 
 
A Participant's vested interest in his Account will automatically be 100% upon the occurrence of the following events: [select the ones that are applicable]:
 
 
 
 
include service performed for the Related Employer.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
be allowed.
 
 
be cancelled. If cancellation occurs, the Participant may resume participation in accordance with Article 4 of the Plan.
 
Investment decisions regarding the hypothetical amounts credited to a Participant's Account shall be made by [select one]:
 
 
The Employer [select one]:
 
intend to establish a rabbi trust as provided in Article 11 of the Plan.
 
The Plan Sponsor
 
the right to terminate the Plan and distribute all vested amounts credited to Participant Accounts upon a Change in Control as described in Section 9.7.
 
Distribution of the remaining vested balance of each Participant's Account
 
automatically be paid as a lump sum payment upon the occurrence of a Change in Control as provided in Section 9.7.
 
A Change in Control for Plan purposes includes the following [select each definition that applies]:
(a)         Not Applicable.
(b)         See Definition in Plan Document
x
 
The laws of shall apply in the administration of the Plan to the extent not preempted by ERISA.
Illinois
 
The Plan Sponsor has caused this Adoption Agreement to be executed this day of , 20.
                    
                    
            
 
 
 


