FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20120203083251.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
February 3, 2012
Beam Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
(Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)
510 Lake Cook Road
Deerfield, IL  60015
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
(847) 948-8888
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
.
Item 2.02.          Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 3, 2012, Beam Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release reporting its financial results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2011, as well as certain guidance for 2012.  A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. Pursuant to general instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
Item 7.01.          Regulation FD Disclosure.
See "Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" above.
Item 9.01.          Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)       Exhibits:
2
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3
EXHIBIT INDEX
4

Exhibit 99.1
Beam Reports Strong 2011 Fourth Quarter and Full Year Results
DEERFIELD, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 3, 2012--
Beam Inc. (NYSE: BEAM):
2011 Earnings Exceed Companys Target; Adjusted Pro Forma Diluted EPS Up 10%
Innovations and Sustained Share Gains Drive Full-Year Comparable Sales Up 8%
Outlook for High-Single-Digit Earnings Growth in 2012
Beam Inc. (NYSE: BEAM), a leading global premium spirits company, today reported results for the fourth quarter and full year 2011. Adjusted pro forma diluted EPS for 2011 rose 10% to $2.12, exceeding the companys target to deliver diluted EPS growth at a high-single-digit rate. Full-year net sales increased 8% on both an adjusted pro forma and comparable basis. For the fourth quarter, adjusted pro forma diluted earnings per share increased 9% to $0.69. Fourth quarter adjusted pro forma net sales grew 1% and were up 4% on a comparable basis, despite the anticipated adverse impact of the timing of sales in Mexico and Australia, which effectively reduced sales growth by approximately 2 points.
On a GAAP basis, which includes discontinued operations of Fortune Brands, full-year diluted EPS was $5.81 versus $3.16 in 2010, and fourth quarter diluted EPS was $0.59 versus $0.55 in the prior-year quarter.
2011 was an extraordinary year for Beam, said Matt Shattock, president and chief executive officer of Beam. We launched Beam as a leading standalone spirits company, while we continued to outperform our markets and prime our business for sustainable, profitable long-term growth.
Effective Growth Strategy Driving Strong Results
The Beam team executed well against our growth strategy in 2011, and delivered sales and earnings ahead of our long-term growth goals, Shattock said. We continued to Create Famous Brands with impactful marketing and another record year of innovations, led by our bourbon brands. We Built Winning Markets by enhancing our strong distribution network, such as with our strategic distribution partnerships in the U.S. and Australia. And we Fueled Our Growth with heightened efficiency and effectiveness, including completion of our U.S. bottling facilities consolidation. Beam strengthened its balance sheet in 2011 and invested resources to generate both top-line momentum and long-term value with synergy-driven acquisitions in two dynamic growth categories: ready-to-serve cocktails and Irish whiskey. We see Skinnygirl cocktails and the Cooley Irish whiskey brands as excellent platforms for long-term value creation.
1
Beam finished 2011 with a very good fourth quarter that was a bit above our expectations, Shattock continued. Comparable sales increased 4% in the quarter and adjusted pro forma diluted EPS was up 9%. While the timing of sales  principally due to a significant inventory reduction in Mexico in advance of our distributor transition in that market  reduced Q4 sales by about 2 points of growth, market-beating performance for our global Power Brands, as well as new-product launches, helped drive our gains in the quarter.
Results for Beam (formerly known as Fortune Brands, Inc.) on a GAAP basis
:
GAAP results reflect the divestiture of the golf business as a discontinued operation, beginning in the quarter ended June 30, 2011, and the spin-off of the Home & Security business, beginning in the quarter ended December 31, 2011.
Prior period results have been reclassified to conform to discontinued operations presentation.
GAAP results prior to the fourth quarter of 2011 reflect items such as historical Fortune Brands corporate expenses, which are not representative of the Beam business on a standalone basis, and include
the gain on sale from the divestiture of the golf unit, a non-cash write-down of identifiable indefinite-lived intangible assets, and a loss on early extinguishment of debt.
For the full year 2011
:
Net income was $917.0 million, or $5.81 per diluted share, compared to $487.6 million, or $3.16 per diluted share, in 2010.
Net sales were $2.3 billion (excluding excise taxes) compared to $2.1 billion in 2010.
Operating income was $395.5 million compared to $456.2 million in 2010.
For the fourth quarter:
Net income was $94.1 million compared to $85.4 million for the fourth quarter of 2010.
Net sales were $637.5 million (excluding excise taxes) compared to $629.8 million for the fourth quarter of 2010.
Operating income was $136.2 million compared to $140.1 million for the fourth quarter of 2010.
Results for Beam on an adjusted pro forma basis
:
The results presented below are on an adjusted pro forma basis due to the separation of Fortune Brands businesses during 2011. Adjusted pro forma is defined as Beams GAAP results from continuing operations excluding charges/gains, further adjusted to assume that Beam was an independent business as of the beginning of 2010, including the impact of public company corporate expense, Beams tax rate,
and the benefit of the debt reduction associated with the separation of Fortune Brands businesses.
It is also adjusted for the one-time startup benefit of the new Australia spirits distribution agreement announced in early 2011.
Reconciliations of these measures to the most closely comparable GAAP measures are presented in the attached financial tables.
For the full year 2011
:
Income from continuing operations for Beam was $334.5 million, or $2.12 per diluted share, up 10% from $1.92.
Net sales increased 8% to a record $2.3 billion (excluding excise taxes). On a comparable basis  adjusted for foreign exchange, acquisitions/divestitures, and the ongoing impact of the new Australia spirits distribution agreement  net sales were also up 8%.
By geographic region, comparable net sales were up 8% in North America, up 8% in Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA), and up 8% in Asia Pacific/South America (APSA).
Operating income was $572.2 million, up 4%.
The company achieved its earnings-to-free-cash conversion target of 90%.
Return on invested capital was 7% and was 24% excluding intangibles.
The companys net-debt-to-EBITDA ratio was 2.5 times at year end.
For the fourth quarter:
Net income for Beam was $109.2 million, or $0.69 per diluted share, up 9% from $0.63 in the year-ago quarter.
Net sales increased 1% to $637.5 million (excluding excise taxes). On the comparable basis described above, net sales were up 4%.
Comparable net sales were up 2% in North America (impacted by the Mexico distributor transition), up 5% in EMEA, and up 7% in APSA.
Operating income was $172.7 million, up 4%.
2
Outlook for Strong Earnings Growth in 2012
As we enter 2012, were encouraged by our continued marketplace momentum, Shattock said. We expect our global spirits market to continue to grow value in the range of 3%, supported by solid growth in mature markets such as the U.S. and double-digit growth in key emerging markets. Against this backdrop, we see market growth across key spirits categories, including strong worldwide demand for bourbon. Weve built our brand investment to competitive levels, were focusing that investment on our biggest brand initiatives in our best markets, we have a robust new-product pipeline, and our unique combination of scale with agility is a competitive advantage.
In 2012, we believe Beam is primed to solidly outperform our markets at the top line, expand operating income faster than sales, and grow diluted EPS even faster. On the back of our very strong 2011 results, our earnings target for 2012 is to grow diluted EPS before charges/gains at a high-single-digit rate against our 2011 base of $2.12, consistent with the long-term goals we outlined to investors prior to the spin-off. Were also delivering immediate value to shareholders with an attractive dividend, which our board has just increased by 8%. The company also is targeting for 2012 an earnings-to-free-cash conversion rate in the range of 90%.
Beam is already off to a strong start in 2012, and our prospects are enhanced by our upcoming innovations, some of which will favorably impact Q1 results. Well also continue to benefit from the Skinnygirl acquisition, which will annualize late in Q1, Shattock added.
First quarter GAAP comparisons will be adversely impacted by the one-time start-up benefit of the Australia distribution partnership that significantly benefited sales and operating income in the first quarter of 2011.
2011 was a year of dramatic change and progress for Beam. The people of Beam feel very good about how far weve come, where we are, and where were headed in 2012 and beyond, Shattock concluded.
3
Key Brand Performance
Net sales growth, full year 2011 (January  December):
Results include ready-to-drink products
(1)
Excludes Hornitos
(2)
Net sales represents consolidated Beam net sales (excluding excise taxes), including non-branded sales to third parties.
4
* Comparable net sales growth rate is a non-GAAP measure representing the percentage increase or decrease in reported net sales in accordance with U.S. GAAP, adjusted for certain items. A reconciliation from reported to comparable net sales growth rates, and the reasons why management believes the non-GAAP measure is useful are included in the attached financial tables.
About Beam Inc.
As one of the worlds leading premium spirits companies, Beam is Crafting the Spirits that Stir the World. Consumers from all corners of the globe call for the companys brands, including Jim Beam Bourbon, Maker's Mark Bourbon, Sauza Tequila, Canadian Club Whisky, Courvoisier Cognac, Teacher's Scotch Whisky, Kilbeggan Irish Whiskey, Laphroaig Scotch Whisky, Cruzan Rum, Hornitos Tequila, Knob Creek Bourbon, EFFEN Vodka, Pucker Flavored Vodka, Larios Gin, Whisky DYC, DeKuyper Cordials, and Skinnygirl Cocktails. The Beam portfolio includes 10 of the worlds top 100 premium spirits brands and some of the industrys fastest growing innovations. Beam is focused on delivering superior performance with its unique combination of scale with agility and a strategy of Creating Famous Brands, Building Winning Markets and Fueling Our Growth. Beam and its 3,200 passionate associates worldwide generated 2011 sales of $2.8 billion on volume of 34 million 9-liter cases.
Headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, Beam is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol BEAM and is included in the S&P 500 Index and the MSCI World Index. For more information on Beam, its brands, and its commitment to social responsibility, please visit and .
www.beamglobal.com
www.drinksmart.com
5
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the company does not assume any obligation to update, amend or clarify them to reflect events, new information or circumstances occurring after the date of this release. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to: general economic conditions and credit market instability, particularly in Europe; customer defaults and related bad debt expense; competitive market pressures (including pricing pressures); changes in customer preferences and trends; risks pertaining to strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, particularly financial and integration risks; any possible downgrades of the company's credit ratings; commodity and energy price volatility; risks associated with doing business outside the United States, including currency exchange rate risks; inability to attract and retain qualified personnel; the impact of excise tax increases and customs duties on distilled spirits; the status of the U.S. rum excise tax cover-over program; dependence on performance of distributors and other marketing arrangements; costs of certain employee and retiree benefits and returns on pension assets; tax law changes and/or interpretation of existing tax laws; potential liabilities, costs and uncertainties of litigation; ability to secure and maintain rights to trademarks and trade names; impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets; disruptions at production facilities; risks related to the Home & Security spin-off; and other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release includes measures not derived in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), including the following measures that are presented on an adjusted pro forma basis: net sales, net income, diluted earnings per share, comparable net sales, operating income, return on invested capital excluding intangibles, earnings-to-free-cash conversion rate and net-debt-to-EBITDA. These measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for any measure derived in accordance with GAAP, and may also be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies. Reconciliation of these measures to the most closely comparable GAAP measures, and reasons for the companys use of these measures, are presented in the attached pages.
6
7
The adjusted pro forma financial information presented above is unaudited and has been derived from the Company's consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. The adjusted pro forma financial information represents the Company's GAAP results from continuing operations adjusted (1) for charges/gains, including restructuring and related charges, asset impairments, gain/loss on sale of brand assets and other select items, which management believes are not indicative of the Company's underlying performance for purposes of analysis of the Company's performance on a year-over-year basis and (2) to assume that Beam Inc. was a standalone spirits company as of January 1, 2010, including the impact of public company corporate expense, the businesss underlying tax rate, and the benefit of the debt reduction associated with the separation of Fortune Brands' businesses.
More specifically, the adjusted pro forma information gives effect to the following adjustments:
 The assumed reduction of $1.7 billion of debt on January 1, 2010 principally consisting of $0.9 billion repurchased in August 2011 and $0.8 billion repurchased in November 2011. These repurchases were made with proceeds from the Golf sale, the $0.5 billion tax-free dividend received from the Home & Security segment in October 2011 and existing cash. The Company estimates the annualized interest expense reduction resulting from debt repurchases will be approximately $60 million. The net savings has been adjusted to eliminate the impact of historical swap settlements on interest expense. Adjusted income from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of 2011 includes an adjustment to reduce interest expense to assume all debt extinguishments were completed prior to the start of Q4 '11. Actual interest expense in future quarters will include the non-cash amortization of the deferred gain on the swaps terminated in the third quarter of 2011.
 The elimination of charges/gains associated with income tax related credits related to the resolution of foreign and US income tax audit examinations.
 The elimination of non-recurring business separation costs incurred to implement the separation of the Companys three businesses, including severance and other employee-related costs, financial advisor fees, the loss from the debt extinguishment described above, and other separation-related costs.
 Adjustments to the Companys expected corporate office cost structure as a result of the separation transactions as if they had occurred on January 1, 2010.
 The 2011 impact of the Company's one-time benefit under the new distribution agreement in Australia.
 An estimated Beam Inc. standalone effective income tax rate of approximately 25% in the 2010 periods and approximately 26.5% in the 2011 periods.
The adjusted pro forma financial information presented above is not prepared in accordance with GAAP. The adjusted pro forma financial information is for informational purposes and should not be considered indicative of our future results of operations as a standalone spirits company.
Reconciliations of the above non-GAAP measures to the most closely comparable GAAP measures, and the reasons why management believes that presentation of these measures provides useful information to investors, are presented in the tables on the following pages.
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
CONTACT: or
Beam Inc.
Media Relations
Clarkson Hine
+1-847-444-7515
Clarkson.Hine@beamglobal.com
Investor Relations
Tony Diaz
+1-847-444-7690
Tony.Diaz@beamglobal.com
19


