FILE:BEAM/BEAM-8K-20120802090324.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
August 2, 2012
Beam Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
(Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)
510 Lake Cook Road
Deerfield, IL  60015
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
(847) 948-8888
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.          Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 2, 2012, Beam Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release reporting its financial results for the second quarter of 2012 and providing guidance for the full year. A copy of the Company's press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. Pursuant to general instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information furnished pursuant to Items 2.02 and 7.01 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section.
Item 7.01.          Regulation FD Disclosure.
See "Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" above.
Item 9.01.          Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)       Exhibits:
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Beam Reports Second Quarter Results
Beam Continues Market Outperformance, Driven by Innovations and Bourbon Brands
Company Delivers Solid Double-Digit Growth in Earnings per Share from Continuing Operations
Beam Raises Full-Year Earnings Growth Target to Low-Double-Digit Rate
DEERFIELD, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--August 2, 2012--Beam Inc. (NYSE: BEAM), a leading global premium spirits company, today reported strong results for the second quarter of 2012 and increased its earnings target range for the full year.
Net sales increased 4% and were up 5% on a comparable basis despite a challenging comparison to results in the year-ago quarter. Strong growth in North America and demand for the companys Bourbon brands and innovations across categories helped drive the sales increase.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $0.63, up 58% on a reported basis (GAAP). Excluding charges/gains, diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.58, up 16%, benefiting from volume growth, targeted price increases, and below-the-line items such as lower interest expense.
For the first half of 2012, net sales increased 8% on a comparable basis, with one-third of the increase driven by sales of new product innovations. On a reported basis, net sales grew 3% reflecting the adverse impact on comparisons of the initial sale of inventory in the first quarter of 2011 for the start-up of the companys Australia distribution agreement. Diluted EPS before charges/gains from continuing operations is up 23% year to date, and is up 42% on a reported basis.
Growth Strategy Delivering Results Ahead of Expectations
Beam continued its momentum with quarterly results that exceeded our expectations, even as we lapped a very strong year-ago quarter that was boosted by our 2011 new product launches, said Matt Shattock, president and chief executive officer of Beam. Our strong top-line results were driven by our Power Brands and Rising Stars  led by Jim Beam, Makers Mark and Skinnygirl  and record quarterly sales from new products that improved our product mix. Sales in North America were particularly strong, while the top line in our EMEA and APSA regions in the quarter was adversely impacted by the timing of sales. Beams profits grew faster than sales, and earnings per share grew at a solid double-digit rate.
As we execute our successful growth strategy, were encouraged by several dynamics that benefited Beam in the quarter, including the strong sell-in for our innovations, impactful brand activation in markets around the world, and strong worldwide demand for Bourbon. The Pinnacle Vodka acquisition is also off to a good start.
Financial Highlights for the Second Quarter and Year to Date:
Income from continuing operations was $101.3 million for the second quarter, or $0.63 per diluted share, compared to $62.4 million, or $0.40 per share, for the second quarter of 2011.
For the first half, income from continuing operations was $179.7 million, or $1.12 per diluted share, up 42% from $0.79 in 2011.
Excluding charges and gains, diluted EPS from continuing operations was $0.58 for the second quarter, up 16% from $0.50 in the year-ago quarter.
Diluted EPS before charges/gains was $1.11 for the first half, up 23% from $0.90.
Reported net sales for the second quarter were $595.5 million (excluding excise taxes), up 4%.
Reported net sales increased 3% for the first half of 2012.
On a comparable basis, which adjusts for foreign exchange and acquisitions/divestitures, net sales were up 5% for the second quarter and up 8% for the first half.
Comparable net sales by region: North America +8% in Q2 and +10% YTD; Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA) +1% in Q2 and +5% YTD; Asia Pacific/South America (APSA) down 1% in Q2 and +7% YTD.
Operating income for the second quarter was $125.7 million, up 5%.
Operating income for the first half increased 11%.
Operating income before charges/gains for the quarter was $151.6 million, up 9%.
For the first half of 2012, operating income before charges/gains increased 13%.
Return on invested capital before charges/gains (rolling 12 months) was 7% and was 23% excluding intangibles.
2
Raising 2012 Earnings Target While Accelerating Investment in Long-Term Growth
Beam enters the back half of 2012 with confidence, Shattock continued. While well face some tough comparisons, we expect the underlying strength of our core business, augmented by our acquisitions, will deliver continued marketplace outperformance. As a result, were raising our 2012 earnings target. Were now targeting diluted earnings per share before charges/gains to grow at a low-double-digit rate, up from our previous target range of high-single digits.
In addition, consistent with our focus on high-return organic growth opportunities, we intend to make stepped up investments in two key areas to fuel our momentum and further enhance our prospects for long-term profitable growth: First, we will upweight marketing investment in the second half behind our most exciting brands and innovations; And second, we are accelerating investment to lay down more aged spirits to support future worldwide demand for our Bourbon, Scotch and Cognac brands. These investments, which include expanding our distillation and warehouse capacity, come on top of our sustained investment in new-product innovation, including our new Global Innovation Center in Kentucky which well open in the fourth quarter.
Our confidence in boosting our level of investment is reinforced by the effectiveness of our growth strategy and the resilience of our global spirits market. Given the strength weve seen in the first half, we now expect our market will grow value in 2012 slightly above our previous estimate of 3%. Our expectation reflects uncertainty in international economies that is being offset by strength in our heartland U.S. spirits market.
Looking to the balance of the year, we expect that EPS growth will moderate in the second half versus the first half reflecting our accelerated investments, and as weve previously indicated, third-quarter EPS growth will also be tempered by an unfavorable comparison due to replenishment of customer inventories for Skinnygirl in the prior-year quarter. At the same time, we now expect our 2012 acquisitions to be a few cents accretive to this years earnings per share, rather than neutral, Shattock said.
The company also noted that it expects the deployment of free cash to barrel more aged spirits will result in an earnings-to-free-cash-conversion rate for 2012 of approximately 80% versus its long-term target in the 90% range.
3
Key Brand Performance
Comparable net sales growth, year-to-date 2012 (January  June):
4
About Beam Inc.
As one of the worlds leading premium spirits companies, Beam is Crafting the Spirits that Stir the World. Consumers from all corners of the globe call for the companys brands, including Jim Beam Bourbon, Maker's Mark Bourbon, Sauza Tequila, Pinnacle Vodka, Canadian Club Whisky, Courvoisier Cognac, Teacher's Scotch Whisky, Cruzan Rum, Hornitos Tequila, Knob Creek Bourbon, Laphroaig Scotch Whisky, Kilbeggan Irish Whiskey, EFFEN Vodka, Pucker Flavored Vodka, Larios Gin, Whisky DYC, DeKuyper Cordials, and Skinnygirl Cocktails. Beam is focused on delivering superior performance with its unique combination of scale with agility and a strategy of Creating Famous Brands, Building Winning Markets and Fueling Our Growth. Beam and its 3,200 passionate associates worldwide generated 2011 sales of $2.8 billion, volume of 34 million 9-liter cases and some of the industrys fastest growing innovations.
Headquartered in Deerfield, Illinois, Beam is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol BEAM and is included in the S&P 500 Index and the MSCI World Index. For more information on Beam, its brands, and its commitment to social responsibility, please visit and .
www.beamglobal.com
www.drinksmart.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements, as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and the company does not assume any obligation to update, amend or clarify them to reflect events, new information or circumstances occurring after the date of this release. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to: general economic conditions and credit market instability, particularly in Europe; customer defaults and related bad debt expense; competitive market pressures (including pricing pressures); changes in customer preferences and trends; risks pertaining to strategic acquisitions and joint ventures, particularly financial and integration risks; any possible downgrades of the company's credit ratings; commodity and energy price volatility; risks associated with doing business outside the United States, including currency exchange rate risks; inability to attract and retain qualified personnel; the impact of excise tax increases and customs duties on distilled spirits; the status of the U.S. rum excise tax cover-over program; dependence on performance of distributors and other marketing arrangements; costs of certain employee and retiree benefits and returns on pension assets; tax law changes and/or interpretation of existing tax laws; potential liabilities, costs and uncertainties of litigation; ability to secure and maintain rights to trademarks and trade names; impairment in the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangible assets; disruptions at production facilities; risks related to the Home & Security spin-off; and other risks and uncertainties described from time to time in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
5
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
This press release includes measures not derived in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), including comparable net sales, diluted EPS before charges/gains, operating income before charges/gains, adjusted return on invested capital, and earnings-to-free-cash-conversion rate. These measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for any measure derived in accordance with GAAP, and may also be inconsistent with similar measures presented by other companies. Reconciliation of these measures to the most closely comparable GAAP measures, and reasons for the companys use of these measures, are presented in the attached pages.
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
CONTACT: Beam Inc. or
Media Relations
Clarkson Hine, +1-847-444-7515
Clarkson.Hine@beamglobal.com
Investor Relations
Tony Diaz, +1-847-444-7690
Tony.Diaz@beamglobal.com
16


