FILE:LH/LH-8K-20020620144202.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 June 20, 2002 - ------------------ (Date of earliest event reported) LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS - ------------------------------------------ (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) DELAWARE 1-11353 13-3757370 -------------- ----------- -------------- (State or other (Commission (IRS Employer jurisdiction of File Number) Identification incorporation) Number) 358 SOUTH MAIN STREET, BURLINGTON, NORTH CAROLINA 27215 - ------------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) 336-229-1127 - ------------ (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS Laboratory Corporation of America -Registered Trademark-Holdings (LabCorp -Registered Trademark-)(NYSE:LH) announced that the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act with respect to its offer to purchase all outstanding shares of common stock of Dynacare Inc. (NASDAQ: DNCR) for approximately $23 per share, payable one-half in cash and one-half in stock, expired at 11:59 PM, New York City time, on June 19, 2002. This transaction remains subject to various conditions including approval by appropriate Canadian government agencies and the stockholders of Dynacare. LabCorp continues to expect that this transaction will close in the third quarter of 2002. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS (c) Exhibit 20 Press release of the Company dated June 20, 2002. SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. LABORATORY CORPORATION OF AMERICA HOLDINGS ------------------------------------------ (Registrant) By:/s/ BRADFORD T. SMITH -------------------------------- Bradford T. Smith Executive Vice President and Secretary Date: June 20, 2002

Laboratory Corporation of America-Registered Trademark- Holdings 358 South Main Street Burlington, NC 27215 Telephone: 336-584-5171 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: 336-436-4855 Shareholder Direct: 800-LAB-0401 Pamela Sherry www.labcorp.com LABCORP-REGISTERED TRADEMARK- ANNOUNCES EXPIRATION OF ANTITRUST WAITING PERIOD IN OFFER FOR DYNACARE INC. Burlington, NC, June 20, 2002 - Laboratory Corporation of America- Registered Trademark- Holdings (LabCorp-Registered Trademark-) (NYSE: LH) today announced that the waiting period under the Hart- Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act with respect to its offer to purchase all outstanding shares of common stock of Dynacare Inc. (NASDAQ: DNCR) for approximately $23 per share, payable one-half in cash and one-half in stock, expired at 11:59 PM, New York City time, on June 19, 2002. This transaction remains subject to various conditions including approval by appropriate Canadian government agencies and the stockholders of Dynacare. LabCorp continues to expect that this transaction will close in the third quarter of 2002. The first national clinical laboratory to fully embrace genomic testing, Laboratory Corporation of America-Registerd Trademark- Holdings (LabCorp-Registered Trademark-) has been a pioneer in commercializing new diagnostic technologies. As a national laboratory with annual revenues of $2.2 billion in 2001 and over 19,000 employees, the company offers more than 4,000 clinical tests ranging from routine blood analyses to sophisticated molecular diagnostics. Serving more than 200,000 clients nationwide, LabCorp combines its expertise in innovative clinical testing technology with its Centers of Excellence. The Center for Molecular Biology and Pathology, in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, offers state-of-the-art molecular gene-based testing in infectious disease, oncology and genetics. Its National Genetics Institute in Los Angeles is an industry leader in developing novel, highly sensitive polymerase chain reaction (PCR) methods for testing hepatitis C and other blood borne infectious agents. LabCorp's Minneapolis-based ViroMed offers molecular microbial testing using real time PCR platforms, while its Center for Esoteric Testing in Burlington, North Carolina, performs the largest volume of specialty testing in the network. LabCorp's clients include physicians, state and federal government, managed care organizations, hospitals, clinics, pharmaceutical and Fortune 1000 companies, and other clinical laboratories. Each of the above forward-looking statements is subject to change based on various important factors, including without limitation, competitive actions in the marketplace and adverse actions of governmental and other third-party payors. Further information on potential factors that could affect LabCorp's financial results is included in the Company's Form 10- K for the year ended December 31, 2001 and subsequent SEC filings. Security holders of Dynacare Inc. are urged to read the proxy statement regarding the proposed Plan of Arrangement when it is finalized and distributed to security holders because it will contain important information for making an informed decision. The definitive proxy statement will be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") by Dynacare, and security holders may obtain a free copy of such proxy statement when it becomes available, and other documents filed with the SEC by Dynacare, at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The definitive proxy statement, when it becomes available, and other documents filed by Dynacare, may also be obtained free of charge by directing a request to Dynacare Inc., 14900 Landmark Boulevard, Suite 200, Dallas, Texas 75254, attention: Zbig S. Biskup, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Secretary. Dynacare and its directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from the security holders of Dynacare in favor of the transaction. The directors and executive officers of Dynacare and their beneficial ownership of Dynacare common stock as of April 15, 2002 are set forth in the proxy statement for the 2002 annual meeting filed by Dynacare on April 30, 2002. LabCorp and its directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from the security holders of Dynacare in favor of the transaction. The directors and executive officers of LabCorp are set forth in the proxy statement for the 2002 annual meeting filed by LabCorp on April 15, 2002. Security holders of Dynacare may obtain additional information regarding the interests of such participants by reading the definitive proxy statement when it becomes available.


