FILE:LH/LH-8K-20050201154811.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On February 1, 2005  Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings (LabCorp) announced an exclusive service relationship with Medicity, Inc., a leading provider of web-based secure clinical computer applications, to offer on-demand lab test ordering and results as part of Medicity's hospital portal product. Hospital portals enable clinicians and physicians to access and interact with multiple, unrelated hospital information systems through a single, secure, web-based application.
Exhibits
99.1 Press Release dated February 1, 2005
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings 358 South Main Street Burlington, NC 27215 Telephone:(336) 584-5171
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Brad Hayes Shareholder Direct: (800)LAB-0401 Company Information: www.LabCorp.com
 Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings (LabCorp) (NYSE: LH) today announced an exclusive service relationship with Medicity, Inc., a leading provider of web-based secure clinical computer applications, to offer on-demand lab test ordering and results as part of Medicity's hospital portal product. Hospital portals enable clinicians and physicians to access and interact with multiple, unrelated hospital information systems through a single, secure, web-based application.
Burlington, NC, February 1, 2005
Through this collaboration, hospital personnel and physicians can now order lab tests and retrieve clinical information directly from LabCorp via a secure portal designed to work with a hospital's existing information systems. This convenient internet-based application provides efficient access to clinical information from multiple hospital sources in a single view. The system helps to improve hospital workflow with features like digital signatures, document management and clinical messaging. With the assistance of this state-of-the-art hospital portal, physicians, nurses, and technicians can make important decisions regarding patient care with the benefit of the most current clinical information readily available.
"Providing effective technology solutions that can easily work with applications like electronic medical record (EMR) software is central to LabCorp's connectivity strategy," said LabCorp Executive Vice President for Sales and Marketing, Bill Haas. "Our collaboration with Medicity will benefit hospital clients by reducing administrative errors, expediting billing functions, and providing new options for interfacing the hospital with physician EMR applications. We are extremely pleased to be expanding our relationship with Medicity and expect many hospital clients to take advantage of this new offering."
"The opportunity LabCorp has given their hospital clients to aggregate clinical data for the benefit of their staff physicians through the use of a Hospital Portal will improve patient care and lower the cost of care," comments Kipp Lassetter, M.D., Chief Executive Office, Medicity, Inc. "Lab data is the anchor' tenant to a hospital's physician portal strategy; Medicity is proud to be working with LabCorp to provide this important service to LabCorp hospital clients."
Medicity, Inc. is the premier provider of web- and web-service-based secure clinical applications serving over 125 hospitals and large provider organizations. Its clinical application suitedelivered through a secure, enterprise physician portal infrastructureincludes a master patient index, an interface manager, a clinical patient repository, a unified viewer, clinical messaging, digital signature, ambulatory ordering, and inpatient ordering. Medicity creates software that will improve the quality and safety of patient care. For more information about Medicity, contact 801.322.4444 or visit .
About Medicity
www.medicity.com
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings is a pioneer in commercializing new diagnostic technologies and the first in its industry to embrace genomic testing. With annual revenues of $2.9 billion in 2003, approximately 23,000 employees nationwide, and more than 220,000 clients, LabCorp offers over 4,400 clinical assays ranging from blood analyses to HIV and genomic testing. LabCorp combines its expertise in innovative clinical testing technology with its Centers of Excellence: The Center for Molecular Biology and Pathology, in Research Triangle Park, NC; National Genetics Institute, Inc. in Los Angeles, CA; ViroMed Laboratories, Inc. based in Minneapolis, MN; The Center for Esoteric Testing in Burlington, NC; and DIANON , Inc. based in Stratford, CT. LabCorp clients include physicians, government agencies, managed care organizations, hospitals, clinical labs, and pharmaceutical companies. To learn more about our growing organization, visit our web site at www.LabCorp.com. Additional information about DIANON , Inc. can be found at www.DIANON.com.
About LabCorp
Systems
Systems
Each of the above forward-looking statements is subject to change based on various important factors, including without limitation, competitive actions in the marketplace and adverse actions of governmental and other third-party payors. Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements. Further information on potential factors that could affect LabCorp's financial results is included in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, and subsequent SEC filings.


