FILE:LH/LH-8K-20050114134922.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 1.01. Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement
On January 13, 2005  Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings (LabCorp) announced that it had entered into a new $350 million senior credit facility with Credit Suisse First Boston and UBS Securities LLC, acting as Co-Lead Arrangers, and a group of seven other financial institutions. The new facility consists of a five-year revolving credit facility in the principal amount of $350 million. The new facility will be used for general corporate purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, funding of share repurchases and other payments and acquisitions. The new facility also provides for an accordion feature to increase the facility up to an additional $150 million, with the consent of the lenders, if needed to support the Company's growth. The Company's previous credit agreements, under which no loans were outstanding, were terminated upon the closing of the new facility.
Exhibits
99.1 Press Release dated January 13, 2005
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings 358 South Main Street Burlington, NC 27215 Telephone:(336) 584-5171
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Brad Hayes Shareholder Direct: (800)LAB-0401 Company Information: www.LabCorp.com
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings (LabCorp) (NYSE: LH) today announced that it has entered into a new $350 million senior credit facility with Credit Suisse First Boston and UBS Securities LLC, acting as Co-Lead Arrangers, and a group of seven other financial institutions. The new facility consists of a five-year revolving credit facility in the principal amount of $350 million. The new facility will be used for general corporate purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, funding of share repurchases and other payments and acquisitions. The Company's previous credit agreements, under which no loans were outstanding, were terminated upon the closing of the new facility.
Burlington, NC, January 13, 2005 
The terms of the new facility include financial covenants governing total leverage and interest coverage as well as negative covenants limiting subsidiary indebtedness and certain other items customary for investment grade-rated borrowers. The facility fee and interest rate on the new facility are based on the Company's senior credit rating as determined by Standard & Poor's, which is currently BBB.
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings is a pioneer in commercializing new diagnostic technologies and the first in its industry to embrace genomic testing. With annual revenues of $2.9 billion in 2003, approximately 23,000 employees nationwide, and more than 220,000 clients, LabCorp offers over 4,400 clinical assays ranging from blood analyses to HIV and genomic testing. LabCorp combines its expertise in innovative clinical testing technology with its Centers of Excellence: The Center for Molecular Biology and Pathology, in Research Triangle Park, NC; National Genetics Institute, Inc. in Los Angeles, CA; ViroMed Laboratories, Inc. based in Minneapolis, MN; The Center for Esoteric Testing in Burlington, NC; and DIANON , Inc. based in Stratford, CT. LabCorp clients include physicians, government agencies, managed care organizations, hospitals, clinical labs, and pharmaceutical companies. To learn more about our growing organization, visit our web site at: www.LabCorp.com.
About LabCorp
Systems
Each of the above forward-looking statements is subject to change based on various important factors, including without limitation, competitive actions in the marketplace and adverse actions of governmental and other third-party payors. Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements. Further information on potential factors that could affect LabCorp's financial results is included in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, and subsequent SEC filings


