FILE:LH/LH-8K-20060721115600.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On July 20, 2006, Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings (LabCorp) (NYSE: LH) (the "Company") entered into a consulting agreement (the "Agreement") with Thomas P. Mac Mahon, effective January 1, 2007, following his retirement from the Company as its Chief Executive Officer.
Under the terms of the Agreement, Mr. Mac Mahon will provide services to the Company for up to sixteen months and will be compensated $12,500 per month during this period. In addition, for purposes of determining Mr. Mahon's retirement benefits, the Company will add five years to Mr. Mac Mahon's age at the time of his retirement. A copy of this Agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.1.
ITEM 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
On July 21, 2006, Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings (LabCorp) (NYSE: LH), announced that its Chief Executive Officer, Thomas P. Mac Mahon, has decided to retire on January 1, 2007. Mr. Mac Mahon will continue to serve as the Chairman of the Board of Directors for a period expected to last until the Annual Meeting of Shareholders in 2008. Further details are contained in the Company's press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Succeeding Mr. Mac Mahon as Chief Executive Officer effective January 1, 2007, will be David P. King, currently the Company's Chief Operating Officer. Mr. King, age 49, has served as Chief Operating Officer since December 1, 2005. Prior to this date, Mr. King was Executive Vice President of Strategic Planning and Corporate Development from January 1, 2004 to November 30, 2005 and Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer from September 17, 2001 to December 31, 2003. Mr. King is a member of the Executive and Management Committees of the Company. Prior to joining the Company, he was a partner with Hogan & Hartson L.L.P. in Baltimore, Maryland from 1992 to 2001.
On July 19, 2006 the Board of Directors increased the size of the Board by two seats, effective January 1, 2007, and appointed Mr. King, and Bradford T. Smith, currently the Company's Executive Vice President and Secretary, to fill the vacancies created thereby.
Exhibits
10.1 Consulting Agreement between Thomas P. Mac Mahon and Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings dated July 20, 2006
99.1 Press Release dated July 21, 2006
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 10.1
July 20, 2006
Mr. Thomas P. Mac Mahon Chief Executive Officer Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings 430 South Spring Street Burlington, North Carolina 27215
Dear Tom:
        This letter agreement confirms that the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the independent members of the Board of Directors have requested that you provide additional services following the termination of your employment as Chief Executive Officer to assist the Company during a transition period. This will also confirm that you have expressed a willingness to provide those services subject to the terms and conditions set forth below:
1)     :
Employment
2)     :
Term
3)     :
Duties
3)     :
Time Commitment
4)     :
Office Expense Reimbursement
5)     :
Travel and Entertainment Expenses
6)     :
Compensation
7)     :
Transition Plan
8)     :
Termination
        The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the independent Board Members very much appreciate your agreement to continue to provide the succession transition assistance outlined above to help assure a smooth and successful CEO Succession Transition. Would you please sign a copy of this letter in the space provided below to indicate your agreement to the terms and conditions set forth above.
AGREED AND ACCEPTED:
Thomas P. Mac Mahon
/s/Thomas P. Mac Mahon                

Exhibit 99.1
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings 358 South Main Street Burlington, NC 27215 Telephone:(336) 584-5171
Investor Contact: Scott Fleming - 336-436-4879 Media Contact: Pam Sherry - 336-436-4855 Shareholder Direct: (800)LAB-0401 Company Information: www.LabCorp.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings (LabCorp) (NYSE: LH) announced today that its Board of Directors has approved the appointment of David P. King to succeed Thomas P. Mac Mahon as Chief Executive Officer on January 1, 2007 pursuant to the Company's comprehensive succession planning process. Mr. King will also join the Board of Directors on that date. To help assure a smooth transition, following his retirement as Chief Executive Officer on December 31, 2006, Mr. Mac Mahon has agreed to continue to serve as the Chairman of the Board of Directors for a period expected to last until the Annual Shareholders' Meeting in 2008. Mr. Mac Mahon has also agreed to provide additional transition assistance to the Company during this period to help assure a smooth transition. The Company also announced that in addition to his current duties, the Board has approved the appointment of Bradford T. Smith to the Board of Directors as Vice Chairman effective January 1, 2007.
Burlington, NC, July 21, 2006 
"The job that Tom Mac Mahon has done developing and implementing the CEO Succession Plan is among his finest achievements, which is saying something when one considers the job that he has done over the last 10 years leading the transformation of LabCorp into a S&P 500 Company," said Robert E. Mittelstaedt, Jr., Chairman of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. "We as board members have mixed emotions as we reach the end of this multi-year CEO Succession Plan that Tom Mac Mahon developed working with the Board. We wish that Tom Mac Mahon's leadership as CEO could continue indefinitely, but are happy that he will now be able to achieve his goal of traveling less and spending more time with his family. We are also quite happy that he has offered to stay on as Chairman of the Board and to provide further assistance to Dave King as he assumes his new responsibilities as CEO."
"Working closely with Dave King over the past several years has convinced me that he is the right executive to lead LabCorp into the future," said Thomas P. Mac Mahon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Over the past several years, Dave has led the effort to update and implement our successful strategic plan by focusing on expanding our managed care relationships and furthering our scientific leadership with a concentration on our cancer testing offerings. I am also very pleased that Brad Smith has agreed to join the Board of Directors. Both Dave and Brad's wealth of industry and company experience, judgment and strategic vision will be an invaluable asset to the Board as we direct the Company into the future."
Mr. King joined LabCorp in 2001 after working for many years with the Company as an outside counsel. Since 2005, he has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, and prior to that he served as the head of the Company's Esoterix and US LABS businesses and Executive Vice President of Strategic Planning and Development. Mr. King initially joined the Company as its Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer. He is a member of the Company's Executive and Management Committees.
About LabCorp
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, a S&P 500 company, is a pioneer in commercializing new diagnostic technologies and the first in its industry to embrace genomic testing. With annual revenues of $3.3 billion in 2005, approximately 24,000 employees nationwide, and more than 220,000 clients, LabCorp offers clinical assays ranging from routine blood analyses to HIV and genomic testing. LabCorp combines its expertise in innovative clinical testing technology with its Centers of Excellence: The Center for Molecular Biology and Pathology, in Research Triangle Park, NC; National Genetics Institute, Inc. in Los Angeles, CA; ViroMed Laboratories, Inc. based in Minneapolis, MN; The Center for Esoteric Testing in Burlington, NC; DIANON , Inc. based in Stratford, CT; US LABS based in Irvine, CA; and Esoterix and its Colorado Coagulation, Endocrine Sciences, and Cytometry Associates laboratories. LabCorp clients include physicians, government agencies, managed care organizations, hospitals, clinical labs, and pharmaceutical companies. To learn more about our growing organization, visit our Web site at: www.LabCorp.com.
Systems
Each of the above forward-looking statements is subject to change based on various important factors, including without limitation, competitive actions in the marketplace and adverse actions of governmental and other third-party payors. Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements. Further information on potential factors that could affect LabCorp's financial results is included in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and subsequent SEC filings.


