FILE:LH/LH-8K-20080331163745.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 3.03. Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders
As described in Item 5.03 below, the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference, on March 25, 2008, the Board of Directors (the "") of Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings (the "") adopted amendments to the Corporation's amended and restated By-Laws (the "") to adopt a majority vote standard for director elections and to make certain other changes to our By-Laws that are primarily clerical in nature and designed to update and conform the By-Laws with the current Delaware General Corporation Law.
Board
Corporation
By-Laws
A copy of the By-Laws, as amended, is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or By-Laws; Change in Fiscal Year
On March 25, 2008, the Corporation's Board adopted amendments to the By-Laws that provide for a majority voting standard for director elections, except where the election is a contested election. In contested elections the vote standard will continue to be a plurality of votes cast. For purposes of the By-Laws, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a director must exceed 50% of the votes cast with respect to that director, and a "contested election" is an election where (i) the Secretary receives notice that a stockholder has nominated a person for election to the Board of Directors in accordance with the advance notice requirements of the By-Laws, (ii) as a consequence of such nomination there are more people nominated for election than there are seats on the Board to be filled at that election and (iii) such nomination has not been withdrawn by such stockholder on or prior to the day next preceding the date the Corporation first mails notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders.
In addition, the Board approved certain other changes to our By-Laws that are primarily clerical in nature and designed to update and conform the By-Laws with the current Delaware General Corporation Law, including, among other things, provisions regarding: (i) the use of electronic transmission for items that previously required a written instrument, such as notices, consents, written ballots, resignations and other communications; (ii) the manner in which stockholders are counted for purposes of determining the presence of a quorum at stockholder meetings; (iii) the procedures for voting; (iv) the requirements for providing a list of stockholders in connection with stockholder meetings; and (v) the ability of the Corporation to issue uncertificated shares.
The foregoing is a summary of the amendments to the By-Laws and is qualified in its entirety by the By-Laws, as amended, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Exhibit 3.1     Amended and Restated By-Laws of Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
           
Exhibit
Title
Exhibit 3.1       Amended and Restated By-Laws of Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings

Exhibit 3.1
         Meetings of the stockholders for the election of directors or for any other purpose shall be held at such time and place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors (or the Chairman or Vice Chairman, if any of the Board of Directors in the absence of a designation by the Board of Directors) and stated in the notice of the meeting or in a duly executed waiver of notice thereof.
Section 1. Place of Meetings.
         The Annual Meetings of Stockholders shall be held on such date and at such time as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting, at which meetings the stockholders shall elect by a majority vote a Board of Directorsas provided in Section 1 of Article II, and transact such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting. Except as otherwise permitted or required by applicable laws or regulations, notice of the Annual Meeting stating the place, date and hour of the meeting shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meetingNotice may be given in any manner permitted by applicable laws and regulations, as provided in Article V.
Section 2. Annual Meetings.
,
.
         Unless otherwise prescribed by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, Special Meetings of Stockholders, for any purpose or purposes, may be called at any time by the Board of Directors. Except as otherwise permitted or required by applicable laws or regulations,notice of a Special Meeting stating the place, if any, date and hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called shall be given not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meetingNotice may be given in any manner permitted by applicable laws and regulations, as provided in Article V.
Section 3. Special Meetings.
.
         Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the capital stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business. If, however, such quorum shall not be present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, mayadjourn the meeting from time to time, but no other business shall be transactedat the meeting. Any business may be transacted at the adjourned meetingwhich might have been transacted at the original meeting. The stockholders present at a duly called or convened meeting, at which a quorum is present, may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum. When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, if any, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place, if any, thereof, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken If the adjournment is for more than thirty days, or, if after adjournment a new record date is fixed, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting. Once a share is represented for any purpose at a meeting (other than solely to object (1) to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting, or (2) (if it is a special meeting) to consideration
Section 4. Quorum.
.
of a particular matter at the meeting that is not within the purpose or purposes described in the meeting notice), it is deemed present for quorum purposes for the remainder of the meeting and or any adjournment of that meeting unless a new record date is set for the adjourned meeting.
         Unless otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, any question brought before any meeting of stockholders shall be decided by the vote of the holders of a majority of the stock represented and entitled to vote thereat. Each stockholder represented at a meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to cast one vote for each share of the capital stock entitled to vote thereat held by such stockholder. Such votes may be cast in person or by proxy but no proxy shall be voted on or after three years from its date, unless such proxy provides for a longer period. Unless required by statute, or determined to be advisable by theBoard of Directors, in its discretion, or the officer of the Corporation presiding at a meeting of stockholders, in his discretion, the vote on any matter need not be by ballot.
Section 5. Voting.
         Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, any action required or permitted to be taken at any Annual or Special Meeting of Stockholders of the Corporation, may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted. Prompt notice of the taking of the corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to those stockholders who have not consented in writing. In the event that the action which is consented to is such as would have required the filing of a certificate under the General Corporation Law, if such action had been voted on by stockholders at a meeting thereof, the Certificate filed shall state, in lieu of any statement concerning any vote of stockholders, that written consent and written notice has been given as provided in this Section 6.
Section 6. Consent of Stockholders in Lieu of Meeting.
         The officer of the Corporation who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting,in any manner permitted by statute. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder of the Corporation who is present. The stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to the stockholders who are entitled to the list described in this section or to vote at any meeting of stockholders.
Section 7. List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote.
         The stock ledger of the Corporation shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list required by Section 7 of this Article I or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
Section 8. Stock Ledger.
The Board of Directors shall consist of not less than one nor more than fifteen members, the exact number of which shall be fixed from time to
Section 1. Number and Election of Directors.
time by the Board of Directors. Except as otherwise required by these By-Laws, by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, directors shall be elected by a majority of the votes cast at an Annual Meeting of Stockholders at which a quorum is present, provided that directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality at a meeting at which a quorum is present if (i) the Secretary receives notice that a stockholder has nominated a person for election to the Board of Directors in accordance with the advance notice requirements for stockholder nominations set forth in this Section 1 and (ii) such nomination has not been withdrawn by such stockholder on or prior to the day next preceding the date the Corporation first mails notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders. Eachdirector so elected shall hold office until the next Annual Meeting and until his successor is duly elected and qualified, or until his earlier death, resignation or removal, in the manner hereinafter provided. Any director may resign at any time upon notice to the Corporation. Directors need not be stockholders. For purposes of this Section, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a director must exceed 50% of the votes cast with respect to that director.
        Nominations for election to the Board of Directors at an annual or special meeting of the stockholders may be made by the Board of Directors or on behalf of the Board of Directors by a nominating committee duly appointed by the Board of Directors, or by a stockholder of the Corporation entitled to vote for the election of directors. All nominations, other than those made by or on behalf of the Board of Directors, shall be made by notice in writing delivered or mailed by first class United States mail, postage prepaid, to the Secretary and received by the Secretary not less than sixty nor more than one hundred twenty days prior to the anniversary date of the preceding year's annual meeting, in the case of nominations for election at an annual meeting, and not more than ten days after the date of the Corporations notice of a special meeting, in the case of nominations for election at a special meeting. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth as to each proposed nominee who is not an incumbent director, (a)the name, age, business address and, if known, residence address of such nominee, (b)the principal occupation or employment of such nominee during the preceding five years, (c)the number of shares of stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such nominee, (d)any other information relating to such nominee that would be required to be set forth in a definitive proxy statement filed in connection with a proxy solicitation pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (e)the written consent of such nominee to being named in the Corporation's proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director of the Corporation, if elected; and such stockholder's notice shall set forth as to such stockholder the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of such stockholder, the number of shares of stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such stockholder, and all other information relating to such stockholder that would be required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission if such stockholder were a participant in a proxy solicitation pursuant to said Section 14. A nomination made otherwise than as provided in this Section 1 shall be null and void and shall not be submitted to a vote of stockholders.
         Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director, and the directors so chosen shall hold office until the next annual election and until their successors are duly elected and qualified, or until their earlier resignation or removal.
Section 2. Vacancies.
         The business of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors which may exercise all such powers of the
Section 3. Duties and Powers.
Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
         The Board of Directors of the Corporation may hold meetings, both regular and special, either within or without the State of Delaware. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and at such place as may from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman, if there be one, the Vice Chairman, if there be one, the President, or any three or more directors. Notice thereof stating the place, date and hour of the meeting shall be given to each director in any manner permitted by statute. Unless otherwise required by these By-Laws, the notice need not state the purpose or purposes of the meeting. Notice need not be given to any director who, either before or after the meeting, signs and submits a written waiver of notice, submits a waiver of notice by electronic transmission, or attends the meeting (except when he attends for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened).
Section 4. Meetings.
         Except as may be otherwise specifically provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, at all meetings of the Board of Directors, a majority of the entire Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the act of a majority of the entire Board of Directors at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present.
Section 5. Quorum.
         Unless otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all the members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writingor by electronic transmission, and the writings or writing or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee. Such filing shall be in paper form if the minutes are maintained in paper form and shall be in electronic form if the minutes are maintained in electronic form.
Section 6. Actions of Board.
         Unless otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of a conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section 7 shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Section 7. Meetings by Means of Conference Telephone.
         The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the entire Board of Directors, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of any such committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, and in the absence of a designation by the Board of Directors of an alternate member to replace the absent or disqualified member, the member or members thereof
Section 8. Committees.
present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any absent or disqualified member. Any committee, to the extent allowed by law and provided in the resolution establishing such committee, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation. Each committee shall keep regular minutes and report to the Board of Directors when required. Unless otherwise provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors designating a committee, a committee may create one or more subcommittees, each subcommittee to consist of one or more members of the committee, and may delegate to a subcommittee such powers and authority as the committee deems appropriate.
         The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and may be paid a sum, in cash, securities or a combination thereof for attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors or a stated salary as director. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation for attending committee meetings. Compensation of directors shall be as determined by the Board of Directors.
Section 9. Compensation.
         No contract or transaction between the Corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association or other organization in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or officers, or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof which authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because his or their votes are counted for such purpose if (i) the material facts as to his or their relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board of Directors or the committee, and the Board of Directors or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative votes of a majority of the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less than a quorum; or (ii) the material facts as to his or their relationship or interest and as to the contract or transactions are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the stockholders; or (iii) the contract or transaction is fair as to the Corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified, by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof or the stockholders. Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction.
Section 10. Interested Directors.
         The Chairman of the Board of Directors, if there be one, shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall also perform such other duties and may exercise such other powers as from time to time may be assigned to him by these By-Laws or by the Board of Directors.
Section 11. Chairman of the Board of Directors.
         The Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, if there be one, or the Vice Chairmen, if there be more than one, shall perform such duties and may exercise such other powers as from time to time may be assigned by these By-Laws or the Board of Directors. In the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or if there be none, the Vice Chairman shall preside at meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors.
Section 12. Vice Chairman.
         The officers of the Corporation shall be chosen by the Board of Directors and shall be a President and a Secretary. The Board of directors, in its discretion, may also choose a Treasurer and one or more Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers and other officers. Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless otherwise prohibited by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws. The officers of the Corporation need not be stockholders of the Corporation nor need such officers be directors of the Corporation.
Section 1. General.
         The Board of Directors at its first meeting held after each Annual Meeting of Stockholders shall elect the officers of the Corporation who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors; and all officers of the Corporation shall hold office until their successors are chosen and qualified, or until their earlier resignation or removal. Any officer elected by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation shall be filled by the Board of Directors. The salaries of all officers of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board of Directors.
Section 2. Election.
         Powers of attorney, proxies, waivers of notice of meeting, consents and other instruments relating to securities owned by the Corporation may be executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation by any officer of the Corporation and any such officer may, in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, take all such action as any such officer may deem advisable to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of security holders of any corporation in which the Corporation may own securities and at any such meeting shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and power incident to the ownership of such securities and which, as the owner thereof, the Corporation might have exercised and possessed if present. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, from time to time confer like powers upon any other person or persons.
Section 3. Voting Securities Owned by the Corporation.
         The President shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and shall have general supervision of the business of the Corporation and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are carried into effect. He shall execute all bonds, mortgages, contracts and other instruments of the Corporation requiring a seal, under the seal of the Corporation, except where required or permitted by law to be otherwise signed and executed and except that the other officers of the Corporation may sign and execute documents when so authorized by these By-Laws, the Board of Directors or the President. In the absence or disability of the Chairman and the Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, or if there be none, the President shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors. The President shall also perform such other duties and may exercise such other powers as from time to time may be assigned to him by these By-Laws or by the Board of Directors.
Section 4. President.
         At the request of the President or in his absence or in the event of his inability or refusal to act (and if there be no Chairman of the Board of Directors or Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors), the Vice President or the Vice Presidents if there is more than one (in the order designated by the Board of Directors) shall perform the duties of the President, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions
Section 5. Vice Presidents.
upon the President. Each Vice President shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors from time to time may prescribe. If there be no Chairman of the Board of Directors, no Vice Chairman of the Board and no Vice President, the Board of Directors shall designate the officer of the Corporation who, in the absence of the President or in the event of the inability or refusal of the President to act, shall perform the duties of the President, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the President.
         The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and all meetings of stockholders and record all the proceedings thereat in a book or books to be kept for that purpose; the Secretary shall also perform like duties for the standing committees when required. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors or President, under whose supervision he shall be. If the Secretary shall be unable or shall refuse to cause to be given notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and if there be no Assistant Secretary, then either the Board of Directors, the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President may choose another officer to cause such notice to be given. The Secretary shall have custody of the seal of the Corporation and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, if there be one, shall have authority to affix the same to any instrument requiring it and when so affixed, it may be attested by the signature of the Secretary or by the signature of any such Assistant Secretary. The Board of Directors may give general authority to any other officer to affix the seal of the Corporation and to attest the affixing by his signature. The Secretary shall see that all books, reports, statements, certificates and other documents and records required by law to be kept or filed are properly kept or filed, as the case may be, in any manner permitted by statute and as directed by the Board of Directors.
Section 6. Secretary.
         The Treasurer, if there be one, shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation and shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors or to the President and the Board of Directors, at its regular meetings, or when the Board of Directors so requires, an account of all his transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation. If required by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of his office and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of his death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in his possession or under his control belonging to the Corporation.
Section 7. Treasurer.
         Except as may be otherwise provided in these By-Laws, Assistant Secretaries, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President, any Vice President, if there be one, or the Secretary, and in the absence of the Secretary or in the event of his disability or refusal to act,
Section 8. Assistant Secretaries.
shall perform the duties of the Secretary, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Secretary.
         Assistant Treasurers, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President, any Vice President, if there be one, or the Treasurer, and in the absence of the Treasurer or in the event of his disability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Treasurer, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Treasurer. If required by the Board of Directors, an Assistant Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of his office and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of his death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in his possession or under his control belonging to the Corporation.
Section 9. Assistant Treasurers.
         Such other officers as the Board of Directors may choose shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may delegate to any other officer of the Corporation the power to choose such other officers and to prescribe their respective duties and powers.
Section 10. Other Officers.
         The shares of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, unless the Board of Directors provides by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of the Corporation's stock shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until the certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. Every holder of stock in the Corporation represented by certificatesshall be entitled to have a certificate signed, in the name of the Corporation (i) by the Chairman or the Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President or a Vice President and (ii) by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation, representing the number of shares registered in certificate form. The Board of Directors may make such additional rules and regulations, not inconsistent with these By-Laws, as it may deem appropriate concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificates for shares of stock or uncertificated shares ofthe Corporation.
Section 1. Form of Certificates.
         Any or all of the signatures on acertificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Section 2. Signatures.
         The Board of Directors may direct a new certificate to be issued in place of any certificate theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost, stolen or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of a new certificate, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such alleged lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or his
Section 3. Lost Certificates.
legal representative, to advertise the same in such manner as the Board of Directors shall require and/or to give the Corporation a bond in such sum as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the Corporation on account of the allegedlost, stolen or destroyed certificate or the issuance of the new certificate or uncertificated shares. The Corporation may adopt such other provisions and restrictions with reference to lost certificates, not inconsistent with applicable law, as it shall in its discretion deem appropriate.
         Stock of the Corporation shall be transferable in the manner prescribed by law and in these By-Laws. Transfers of stock shall be made on the books of the Corporation only by the person named in the certificate or by his attorney lawfully constituted in writing and upon the surrender of the certificate therefor, which shall be canceled before a new certificate or uncertificated sharesshall be issued.
Section 4. Transfers.
         In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty days nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting, nor more than sixty days prior to any other action. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Section 5. Record Date.
         The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and to hold liable for calls and assessments a person registered on its books as the owner of shares, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by law.
Section 6. Beneficial Owners.
         Whenever notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, to be given to any director, member of a committee or stockholder, such notice may be given in any manner permitted by applicable laws and regulations, and shall be deemed given at the time prescribed by applicable laws and regulations for such manner of notice. Notice of any meeting shall not be required to be given to any person who attends the meeting, except when the person attends the meeting in person or by proxy for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
Section 1. Notices.
         Whenever any notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, to be given to any director, member of a committee or stockholder, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to said notice, or an electronically transmitted waiver of notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto.
Section 2. Waivers of Notice.
         Dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation, subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, if any, may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting, and may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the capital stock. Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors from time to time, in its absolute discretion, deems proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for any proper purpose, and the Board of Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve.
Section 1. Dividends.
         All checks or demands for money and notes of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers or such other person or persons as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate.
Section 2. Disbursements.
         The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Section 3. Fiscal Year.
         The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation, the year of its organization and the words "Corporate Seal, Delaware". The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.
Section 4. Corporate Seal.
         The Corporation hereby expressly elects not to be governed by Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
Section 5. Section 203 Election.
         When used in these By-Laws, "electronic transmission" means any form of communication, not directly involving the physical transmission of paper, that creates a record that may be retained, retrieved and reviewed by a recipient thereof, and that may be directly reproduced in paper form by such a recipient through an automated process, including without limitation any telegram, cablegram, facsimile transmission and communication by electronic mail.
Section 6. Electronic Transmission.
        In addition to the provisions for use of facsimile signatures specifically authorized in these By-Laws, facsimile signatures of any officer or officers of the Corporation may be used whenever and as authorized by the Board of Directors or any committee thereof.
Section 7. Facsimile Signatures.
         Any records required by these By-Laws or otherwise maintained by the Corporation in the regular course of its business, including its stock ledger, books of account, and minute books, may be kept on, or be in the form of, magnetic tape, computer diskettes and discs, photographs, microphotographs, or any other information storage device, provided that the records so kept can be converted into clearly legible form within a reasonable time.
Section 8. Form of Records.
        Subject to Section 3 of this Article VII, the Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Corporation) by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.
Section 1. Power to Indemnify in Actions, Suits or Proceedings Other Than Those by or in the Right of the Corporation.
         Subject to Section 3 of this Article VII, the Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation; except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation unless and only to the extent that the Court of Chancery or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Court of Chancery or such other court shall deem proper.
Section 2. Power to Indemnify in Actions, Suits or Proceedings by or in the Right of the Corporation.
         Any indemnification under this Article VII (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the director, officer, employee or agent is proper in the circumstances because he has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 1 or Section 2 of this Article VII, as the case may be. Such determination shall be made (i) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, or (ii) if such a quorum is not obtainable, or, even if obtainable a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (iii) by the stockholders. To the extent, however, that a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense
Section 3. Authorization of Indemnification.
of any action, suit or proceeding described above, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, he shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection therewith, without the necessity of authorization in the specific case.
         For purposes of any determination under Section 3 of this Article VII, a person shall be deemed to have acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, or, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, to have had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful, if his action is based on the records or books of account of the Corporation or another enterprise, or on information supplied to him by the officers of the Corporation or another enterprise in the course of their duties, or on the advice of legal counsel for the Corporation or another enterprise or on information or records given or reports made to the Corporation or another enterprise by an independent certified public accountant or by an appraiser or other expert selected with reasonable care by the Corporation or another enterprise. The term "another enterprise" as used in this Section 4 shall mean any other corporation or any partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise of which such person is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent. The provisions of this Section 4 shall not be deemed to be exclusive or to limit in any way the circumstances in which a person may be deemed to have met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 1 or 2 of this Article VII, as the case may be.
Section 4. Good Faith Defined.
         Notwithstanding any contrary determination in the specific case under Section 3 of this Article VII, and notwithstanding the absence of any determination thereunder, any director, officer, employee or agent may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction in the State of Delaware for indemnification to the extent otherwise permissible under Sections 1 and 2 of this Article VII. The basis of such indemnification by a court shall be a determination by such court that indemnification of the director, officer, employee or agent is proper in the circumstances because he has met the applicable standards of conduct set forth in Section 1 or 2 of this Article VII, as the case may be. Neither a contrary determination in the specific case under Section 3 of this Article VII nor the absence of any determination thereunder shall be a defense to such application or create a presumption that the director, officer, employee or agent seeking indemnification has not met any applicable standard of conduct. Notice of any application for indemnification pursuant to this Section 5 shall be given to the Corporation promptly upon the filing of such application. If successful, in whole or in part, the director, officer, employee or agent seeking indemnification shall also be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting such application.
Section 5. Indemnification by a Court.
         Expenses incurred in defending or investigating a threatened or pending action, suit or proceeding shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director, officer, employee or agent to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that he is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Article VII.
Section 6. Expenses Payable in Advance.
         The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by or granted pursuant to this Article VII shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under any By-Law, agreement, contract, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or pursuant to the direction (howsoever embodied) of any
Section 7. Nonexclusivity of Indemnification and Advancement of Expenses.
court of competent jurisdiction or otherwise, both as to action in his official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, it being the policy of the Corporation that indemnification of the persons specified in Sections 1 and 2 of this Article VII shall be made to the fullest extent permitted by law. The provisions of this Article VII shall not be deemed to preclude the indemnification of any person who is not specified in Section 1 or 2 of this Article VII but whom the Corporation has the power or obligation to indemnify under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or otherwise.
         The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power or the obligation to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of this Article VII.
Section 8. Insurance.
         For purposes of this Article VII, references to "the Corporation" shall include, in addition to the resulting corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its director, officers, employees or agents, so that any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of such constituent corporation, or is or was serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a directors, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Article VII with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as he would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued. For purposes of this Article VII, references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the Corporation" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer, employee or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation" as referred to in this Article VII.
Section 9. Certain Definitions.
         The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Article VII shall, unless otherwise provided when authorized or ratified, continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
Section 10.
Survival of Indemnification and Advancement of Expenses.
         Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article VII to the contrary, except for proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification (which shall be governed by Section 5 hereof), the Corporation shall not be obligated to indemnify any director, officer, employee or agent in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person unless such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized or consented to by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Section 11.
Limitation on Indemnification.
         These By-Laws may be altered, amended or repealed, in whole or in part, or new By-Laws may be adopted by the stockholders or by the Board of Directors, provided, however, that notice of such alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption of new By-Laws be contained in the notice of such meeting of stockholders or Board of Directors, as the case may be. All such amendments must be approved by either the holders of a majority of the outstanding capital stock entitled to vote thereon or by a majority of the entire Board of Directors then in office.
Section 1.
Amendments.
As used in this Article VIII and in these By-Laws generally, the term "entire Board of Directors" means the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies.
Section 2. Entire Board of Directors.


