FILE:LH/LH-8K-20101207171911.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings (LabCorp)(NYSE:LH) announced that on December 2, 2010, N. Anthony Coles, M.D. was appointed to its Board of Directors, effective January 1, 2011.  Dr. Coles will also serve on the Quality and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors.  Dr. Coles will be entitled to receive compensation for his service on the Board of Directors consiste nt with LabCorps director compensation program, as described under the heading Director Compensation in LabCorps proxy statement for its 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 1, 2011, which description is incorporated in this Form 8-K by reference. Dr. Coles, 50, is President, CEO and a member of the board of Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc., located in Emeryville, California.
 
 
 
On December 7, 2010, LabCorp issued the press release attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 announcing the appointment of Dr. Coles.
 
 
 
 
(d)  Exhibits
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
December 7, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings (LabCorp) (NYSE:LH) today announced that N. Anthony Coles, M.D., has been elected to its Board of Directors, effective January 1, 2011.  Dr. Coles is President and CEO of Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and a member of its board of directors.
Burlington, NC, December 7, 2010 
Dr. Coles is an accomplished physician and executive leader who served as President, Chief Executive Officer, and a member of the board of directors of NPS Pharmaceuticals prior to joining Onyx.  Beginning in 1996, he held a number of executive positions at Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, including Senior Vice President of Strategy and Policy; Senior Vice President of Marketing and Medical Affairs, Neuroscience/Infectious Diseases/Dermatology; Vice President, Western Area Sales Cardiovascular and Metabolic Business Unit for U.S. Primary Care; and Vice President, Cardiovascular Global Marketing. From 1992 until 1996, Dr. Coles also held a number of positions of increasing responsibility at Merck & Co., Inc, including Vice President of the Hypertension and Heart Failure Business Group.
He is a distinguished trustee and member of the Executive Committee for the Johns Hopkins University Board of Trustees, as well as a member of the board of trustees for Johns Hopkins Medicine.  Dr. Coles is also a member of the board of the Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO), as well as a director for Campus Crest Communities, Inc., a NYSE traded company.
Dr. Coles completed his cardiology and internal medicine training at Massachusetts General Hospital and was a research fellow at Harvard Medical School. He earned his medical degree from Duke University, a masters degree in public health from Harvard University and his undergraduate degree from Johns Hopkins University.
We are delighted that such a prominent, well-respected health care professional and business leader has accepted our invitation to join the LabCorp Board of Directors, said David P. King, LabCorp
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.  Dr. Coles breadth of knowledge in healthcare, business strategy, operations and management will greatly benefit our Company and our shareholders.
About LabCorp
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, an S&P 500 company, is a pioneer in commercializing new diagnostic technologies and the first in its industry to embrace genomic testing.  With annual revenues of $4.7 billion in 2009, over 28,000 employees worldwide, and more than 220,000 clients, LabCorp offers clinical assays ranging from routine blood analyses to HIV and genomic testing. LabCorp combines its expertise in innovative clinical testing technology with its Centers of Excellence: The Center for Molecular Biology and Pathology, National Genetics Institute, ViroMed Laboratories, Inc., The Center for Esoteric Testing, Litholink Corporation, DIANON , Inc., US LABS, Monogram Bi osciences, Inc. and Esoterix, Inc. and its Colorado Coagulation, Endocrine Sciences, and Cytometry Associates laboratories. LabCorp conducts clinical trials testing through its Esoterix Clinical Trials Services division. LabCorp clients include
Systems
 
 
 
 
physicians, government agencies, managed care organizations, hospitals, clinical labs, and pharmaceutical companies. To learn more about our organization, visit our Web site at: .
www.labcorp.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements. Each of the forward-looking statements is subject to change based on various important factors, including without limitation, competitive actions in the marketplace and adverse actions of governmental and other third-party payors.  Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements. Further information on potential factors that could affect LabCorps financial results is included in the Companys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and subsequent SEC filings.


