FILE:LH/LH-8K-20100506163220.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure

Exhibit 99.1
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings (LabCorp) (NYSE: LH) today announced that David P. King, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is scheduled to speak at the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Health Care Conference in New York, NY.  LabCorps presentation is planned for Thursday, May 13, 2010 at 10:40 a.m. (Eastern Time).
Burlington, NC, May 6, 2010  
A live audio webcast of the presentation will be available via the Company Web site at and archived for replay.
www.labcorp.com
 
About LabCorp
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, an S&P 500 company, is a pioneer in commercializing new diagnostic technologies and the first in its industry to embrace genomic testing.  With annual revenues of $4.7 billion in 2009, over 28,000 employees worldwide, and more than 220,000 clients, LabCorp offers clinical assays ranging from routine blood analyses to HIV and genomic testing. LabCorp combines its expertise in innovative clinical testing technology with its Centers of Excellence: The Center for Molecular Biology and Pathology, National Genetics Institute, ViroMed Laboratories, Inc., The Center for Esoteric Testing, Litholink Corporation, DIANON , Inc., US LABS, Monogram Biosciences, Inc. and Esoterix and its Colorado Coagulation, Endocrine Sciences, and Cytometry Associates laboratories. LabCorp conducts clinical trials testing through its Esoterix Clinical Trials Services division. LabCorp clients include physicians, government agencies, managed care organizations, hospitals, clinical labs, and pharmaceutical companies. To learn more about our organization, visit our Web site at: .
Systems
www.labcorp.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements. Each of the forward-looking statements is subject to change based on various important factors, including without limitation, competitive actions in the marketplace and adverse actions of governmental and other third-party payors.  Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements. Further information on potential factors that could affect LabCorps financial results is included in the Companys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and subsequent SEC filings.


