FILE:LH/LH-8K-20100809171056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
On August 9, 2010, Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings (NYSE: LH) announced that its Board of Directors has authorized a new stock repurchase program under which LabCorp may purchase up to an additional aggregate of $250 million of its Common Stock from time-to-time.
 
Exhibits
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
August 9, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
 
- Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings (NYSE: LH) today announced that its Board of Directors has authorized a new stock repurchase program under which LabCorp may purchase up to an additional aggregate of $250 million of its Common Stock from time-to-time. LabCorp has purchased a total of $206.6 million of its Common Stock under its previously announced stock repurchase program, $56.7 million of which was completed since the end of the second quarter of 2010.
Burlington, NC, August 09, 2010
 
Any purchases under LabCorp's stock repurchase program may be made from time-to-time in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions and may be initiated and discontinued at any time.
 
About LabCorp
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, an S&P 500 company, is a pioneer in commercializing new diagnostic technologies and the first in its industry to embrace genomic testing.  With annual revenues of $4.7 billion in 2009, over 28,000 employees worldwide, and more than 220,000 clients, LabCorp offers clinical assays ranging from routine blood analyses to HIV and genomic testing. LabCorp combines its expertise in innovative clinical testing technology with its Centers of Excellence: The Center for Molecular Biology and Pathology, National Genetics Institute, ViroMed Laboratories, Inc., The Center for Esoteric Testing, Litholink Corporation, DIANON , Inc., US LABS, Monogr am Biosciences, Inc. and Esoterix, Inc. and its Colorado Coagulation, Endocrine Sciences, and Cytometry Associates laboratories. LabCorp conducts clinical trials testing through its Esoterix Clinical Trials Services division. LabCorp clients include physicians, government agencies, managed care organizations, hospitals, clinical labs, and pharmaceutical companies. To learn more about our organization, visit our Web site at: .
Systems
www.labcorp.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements. Each of the forward-looking statements is subject to change based on various important factors, including without limitation, competitive actions in the marketplace and adverse actions of governmental and other third-party payors.  Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements. Further information on potential factors that could affect LabCorps financial results is included in the Companys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and subsequent SEC filings.
 
 
 


