FILE:LH/LH-8K-20111103091338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
On November 3, 2011, Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings (LabCorp) (NYSE: LH) announced that William B. (Brad) Hayes, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, is scheduled to speak at the  Credit Suisse 2011 Healthcare Conference in Phoenix, AZ.  LabCorps presentation is planned for Thursday, November 10, 2011 at 10:30 a.m. (Mountain Standard Time)
.
 
Exhibits
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
November 3, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
 
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings (LabCorp) (NYSE: LH) today announced that William B. (Brad) Hayes, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, is scheduled to speak at the  Credit Suisse 2011 Healthcare Conference in Phoenix, AZ.  LabCorps presentation is planned for Thursday, November 10, 2011 at 10:30 a.m. (Mountain Standard Time).
Burlington, NC, November 3, 2011 
A live audio webcast of the presentation will be available via the Company Web site at and archived for replay.
www.labcorp.com
 
About LabCorp
Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, an S&P 500 company, is a pioneer in commercializing new diagnostic technologies and the first in its industry to embrace genomic testing.  With annual revenues of $5.0 billion in 2010, over 31,000 employees worldwide, and more than 220,000 clients, LabCorp offers a broad test menu ranging from routine blood analyses to reproductive genetics to DNA sequencing. LabCorp furthers its scientific expertise and innovative clinical testing technology with its Centers of Excellence: The Center for Molecular Biology and Pathology, National Genetics Institute, ViroMed Laboratories, Inc., The Center for Esoteric Testing, Litholink Corporation, Genzyme Genetics*, DIANON , Inc., US LABS, Monogram Biosciences, Inc., and Esoterix and its Colorado Coagulation, Endocrine Sciences, and Cytometry Associates laboratories. LabCorp conducts clinical trials testing through its Esoterix Clinical Trials Services division. LabCorp clients include physicians, government agencies, managed care organizations, hospitals, clinical labs, and pharmaceutical companies. To learn more about our organization, visit our Web site at: .
SM
Systems
www.labcorp.com
*Genzyme Genetics and its logo are trademarks of Genzyme Corporation and used by Esoterix Genetic Laboratories, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of LabCorp, under license. Esoterix Genetic Laboratories and LabCorp are operated independently from Genzyme Corporation.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements. Each of the forward-looking statements is subject to change based on various important factors, including without limitation, competitive actions in the marketplace and adverse actions of governmental and other third-party payors.  Actual results could differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements. Further information on potential factors that could affect LabCorps financial results is included in the Companys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, and subsequent SEC filings.


