FILE:SYK/SYK-8K-20071002150357.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
that it reached a resolution with the United States Attorney's office in Newark, New Jersey in connection with its investigation of consulting practices in the orthopaedic industry. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Stryker Corporation issued a press release on September 27, 2007 announcing
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
            
 
 
STRYKER CORPORATION
(Registrant)
 
                                                         
October 2, 2007
/s/ DEAN H. BERGY
Date                                                                             Dean H. Bergy
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Kalamazoo, Michigan - September 27, 2007 -- Stryker Corporation (NYSE:SYK) announced today that it has reached a resolution with the United States Attorney's office in Newark, New Jersey in connection with its investigation of consulting practices in the orthopaedic industry. The investigation began with a U.S. Department of Justice subpoena issued in March 2005 that requested documents for the period January 2002 through the present relating to "any and all consulting contracts, professional service agreements, or remuneration agreements between Stryker Corporation and any orthopedic surgeon, orthopedic surgeon in training, or medical school graduate using or considering the surgical use of hip or knee joint replacement/reconstruction products manufactured or sold by Stryker Corporation."  The resolution requires the Company's Orthopaedics subsidiary to comply with certain standards and procedures in connection with the retention and payment of orthopaedic surgeon consultants related to reconstructive products and the provision of certain benefits to such surgeons.
Stryker Corporation is one of the world's leading medical technology companies with the most broadly based range of products in orthopaedics and a significant presence in other medical specialties. Stryker works with respected medical professionals to help people lead more active and more satisfying lives. The Company's products include implants used in joint replacement, trauma, craniomaxillofacial and spinal surgeries; biologics; surgical, neurologic, ear, nose & throat and interventional pain equipment; and endoscopic, surgical navigation, communications and digital imaging systems; as well as patient handling and emergency medical equipment. For more information about Stryker, please visit the company web site at www.stryker.com.
 
 
Date:    September 27, 2007
Contact:     Dean H. Bergy
                  Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
                  269/385-2600
 
 


