FILE:SYK/SYK-8K-20091203143421.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]         Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]         Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
SECTION 8 - OTHER EVENTS
Item 8.01      Other Events.
The Company issued a press release on November 30, 2009 announcing a definitive agreement to acquire privately held Ascent Healthcare Solutions, Inc.  Under the terms of the agreement, Stryker will acquire Ascent Healthcare Solutions for $525 million in an all cash transaction. The closing is conditioned on the expiration or termination of all applicable waiting periods pursuant to the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act and other customary closing conditions.  A copy ofthis press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
In addition, the Company issued a press release on December 3, 2009 announcing that its Board of Directors has authorized the Company to repurchase up to $750 million of its common stock and has declared its first quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share payable January 29, 2010 to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 30, 2009.  A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
SECTION 9 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
Item 9.01      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)                    Exhibits
The following exhibits are included with this Report:
Exhibit                       
99.1                 Press release announcing a definitive agreement to acquire privately held Ascent Healthcare Solutions, Inc.
99.2                 Press release announcing authorization for the Company to repurchase up to $750 million of its common stock and first quarterly dividend.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
STRYKER CORPORATION
(Registrant)
 
 
                                          
December 3, 2009
/s/ CURT R. HARTMAN
Date                                                                Curt R. Hartman
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Kalamazoo, Michigan - November 30, 2009 -- Stryker Corporation (NYSE:SYK) today announced a definitive agreement to acquire privately held Ascent Healthcare Solutions, Inc. the market leader in the reprocessing and remanufacturing of medical devices in the U.S.
Under the terms of the agreement, Stryker will acquire Ascent Healthcare Solutions for $525 million in an all cash transaction. The closing is conditioned on the expiration or termination of all applicable waiting periods pursuant to the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act and other customary closing conditions. The board of directors of Stryker and the board of directors and shareholders of Ascent Healthcare Solutions have approved the transaction.
Ascent Healthcare Solutions was formed through the 2005 merger of Vanguard Medical Concepts and Alliance Medical Corporation, two leading players in the reprocessing and remanufacturing of medical devices. With two state of the art reprocessing facilities in Phoenix, Arizona and Lakeland, Florida, Ascent currently provides its services to 1,800 leading hospitals and numerous Group Purchasing Organizations throughout North America. Ascent's market leadership position has been driven by its broad product offering, which includes cardiovascular, orthopaedics, gastroenterology and general surgery devices that must comply with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's 510(k) and Quality System Regulation (QSR) requirements. With over 900 team members, Ascent achieved sales in 2008 in excess of $100 million.
"The acquisition of Ascent Healthcare Solutions with its talented team will enhance our value proposition to hospitals and healthcare providers," said Stephen P. MacMillan, Stryker's Chief Executive Officer. "Conducted in accordance with FDA regulations, reprocessing and remanufacturing is one of the most impactful programs in use at hospitals, allowing for significant costs savings to the healthcare system.  Additionally, Ascent's programs allow its partner hospitals to divert thousands of pounds of medical waste from landfills while simultaneously redirecting substantial financial resources to patient care quality initiatives."  The business will become a division of Stryker operating under the MedSurg group of businesses and will continue to be known as Ascent Healthcare Solutions.
The transaction, which is expected to close by year end 2009, is expected to be neutral to Stryker's 2010 earnings per share and accretive thereafter.
Stryker Corporation is one of the world's leading medical technology companies with the most broadly based range of products in orthopaedics and a significant presence in other medical specialties. Stryker works with respected medical professionals to help people lead more active and more satisfying lives. The Company's products include implants used in joint replacement, trauma, craniomaxillofacial and spinal surgeries; biologics; surgical, neurologic, ear, nose & throat and interventional pain equipment; endoscopic, surgical navigation, communications and digital imaging systems; as well as patient handling and emergency medical equipment. For more information about Stryker, please visit www.stryker.com.
About Stryker
Ascent Healthcare Solutions was formed in December, 2005 through the merger of Alliance Medical Corporation, based in Phoenix, Arizona and Vanguard Medical Concepts, based in Lakeland, Florida. The Company's services include reprocessing and remanufacturing medical devices. The company is headquartered in Phoenix, Arizona, with production facilities in both Lakeland, Florida and Phoenix, Arizona. Ascent employs approximately 900 individuals in these two locations and throughout the United States.
About Ascent Healthcare Solutions
Contacts
For investor relations inquiries, please contact:
Katherine Owen, Vice President, Strategy and Investor Relations of Stryker Corporation,269-385-2600
 
For media inquiries please contact:
Gabrielle Zucker, Kwittken & Company, 646-747-7143 or stryker@kwitco.com

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
Kalamazoo, Michigan - December 3, 2009 -- Stryker Corporation (NYSE:SYK) announced today that its Board of Directors has authorized the Company to repurchase up to $750 million of its common stock.  The manner, timing and amount of any purchases will be determined by the Company's management based on their evaluation of market conditions, stock price and other factors and will be subject to regulatory considerations.  Purchases may be made from time to time in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise.  The Company had 397.7 million shares of common stock outstanding as of October 31, 2009.
 
In addition, the Company announced that its Board of Directors has declared its first quarterly dividend of $0.15 per share payable January 29, 2010 to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 30, 2009.  As previously announced, the Company's Board of Directors modified its dividend policy to adopt a quarterly payment schedule in lieu of an annual dividend at its October 2009 meeting. 
 
"We continue to be pleased with our strong financial position," commented Stephen P. MacMillan, President and Chief Executive Officer.  "The actions of our Board of Directors today again demonstrate that we have the strength to continue to pursue investments in our business while returning significant capital to our shareholders through share repurchases and dividends."
 
Stryker Corporation is one of the world's leading medical technology companies with the most broadly based range of products in orthopaedics and a significant presence in other medical specialties. Stryker works with respected medical professionals to help people lead more active and more satisfying lives. The Company's products include implants used in joint replacement, trauma, craniomaxillofacial and spinal surgeries; biologics; surgical, neurologic, ear, nose & throat and interventional pain equipment; endoscopic, surgical navigation, communications and digital imaging systems; as well as patient handling and emergency medical equipment. For more information about Stryker, please visit www.stryker.com.
 
CONTACT:     Katherine A. Owen
                        Vice President, Strategy and Investor Relations
                        269-385-2600


