FILE:SYK/SYK-8K-20091030121613.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
SECTION 5   CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
 
 
At the Board of Directors Meeting of Stryker Corporation (the "Company") held on Thursday, October 29, 2009, John W. Brown notified the Board of Directors that he will retire as Chairman of the Board and a Director, effective December 31, 2009.
 
The Company also announced that Stephen P. MacMillan, Stryker's President and CEO, has been appointed Chairman of the Board, in addition to his current responsibilities, effective January 1, 2010.  A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
SECTION 8   OTHER EVENTS
 
 
            The Company issued a press release on October 30, 2009 announcing that its Board of Directors has modified the Company's dividend policy and declared a cash transition dividend.  A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
 
SECTION 9   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
STRYKER CORPORATION
(Registrant)
 
                                           
October 30, 2009
/s/ THOMAS R. WINKEL
Date                                                                Thomas R. Winkel
                                                                        Vice President and Secretary
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Kalamazoo, Michigan - October 30, 2009 -- Stryker Corporation (NYSE:SYK) announced today that after a highly successful and distinguished 32-year career with Stryker Corporation, John W. Brown, has announced his decision to retire as Chairman of the Board and a Director effective December 31, 2009.
Mr. Brown joined the Company as President and Chief Executive Officer in 1977 and served in those positions until 2003. He has been a Director since 1977 and Chairman of the Board since 1981.  Under Mr. Brown's leadership, Stryker has become one of the premier medical technology companies in the world.
In announcing his decision, Mr. Brown commented, "This timing is consistent with my original goal of providing a 5-year overlap with Steve MacMillan. The Company has done very well under Steve's leadership as CEO since January 2005, in spite of the challenges in today's economy and the current healthcare environment.  We are also extremely fortunate to have a group of strong board members, many of whom have served the Company for a number of years.  Additionally, three new members have joined the board during the last few years and are very experienced.  This gives me great confidence that the Company is in good hands."
In recognition of Mr. Brown's tremendous contributions to the Company, the Board of Directors has appointed him Chairman Emeritus effective January 1, 2010.  While he will no longer play an active role with the Company, Mr. Brown will be available for consultation to the Board.
The Company also announced that Stephen P. MacMillan, Stryker's President and CEO, has been appointed Chairman of the Board, in addition to his current responsibilities, effective January 1, 2010.
In announcing these changes, the Board of Directors commented that they were extremely grateful to Mr. Brown for his leadership and very pleased that he has agreed to serve as Chairman Emeritus.  They also added that they were pleased that Mr. MacMillan has agreed to take on this additional responsibility and will look to him to ensure the Company's continued success.
Stryker Corporation is one of the world's leading medical technology companies with the most broadly based range of products in orthopaedics and a significant presence in other medical specialties. Stryker works with respected medical professionals to help people lead more active and more satisfying lives. The Company's products include implants used in joint replacement, trauma, craniomaxillofacial and spinal surgeries; biologics; surgical, neurologic, ear, nose & throat and interventional pain equipment; endoscopic, surgical navigation, communications and digital imaging systems; as well as patient handling and emergency medical equipment. For more information about Stryker, please visit www.stryker.com.
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
Kalamazoo, Michigan - October 30, 2009 -- Stryker Corporation (NYSE:SYK) announced today that its
Board of Directors has modified its dividend policy to adopt a quarterly payment schedule in lieu of an annual dividend.  In conjunction with this modification, the Company's Board of Directors has declared a cash transition dividend of $0.10 per share, payable December 16, 2009, to shareholders of record at the close of business on November 18, 2009.  The transition dividend will increase the total dividends paid in 2009 to $0.50 per share, up 52% from the $0.33 per share paid in 2008. Subject to further action by the Company's Board of Directors, the Company anticipates the first quarterly dividend to be paid in January 2010 at a targeted quarterly rate of $0.15 per share.
Stryker Corporation is one of the world's leading medical technology companies with the most broadly based range of products in orthopaedics and a significant presence in other medical specialties. Stryker works with respected medical professionals to help people lead more active and more satisfying lives. The Company's products include implants used in joint replacement, trauma, craniomaxillofacial and spinal surgeries; biologics; surgical, neurologic, ear, nose & throat and interventional pain equipment; endoscopic, surgical navigation, communications and digital imaging systems; as well as patient handling and emergency medical equipment. For more information about Stryker, please visit www.stryker.com.
 
 


