FILE:SYK/SYK-8K-20101210164301.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Impairments	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
            On December 6, 2010 Stryker Corporation announced that it has entered into a definitive agreement with Olympus Corporation for the sale of its OP-1 product family, which includes OP-1 Implant, OP-1 Putty, Opgenra and Osigraft, for use in orthopaedic bone applications for $60 million.  As a result, the Company will incur a one-time non cash charge of approximately $75 to $80 million (net of income tax benefit) in the fourth quarter to reflect the anticipated loss on the sale of the previously described assets, which will reduce diluted net earnings per share by approximately $0.19 to $0.20.  A copy of the press release announcing the agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Item 5.02     
    
At the Board of Directors Meeting of Stryker Corporation (the "Company") held on December 8, 2010, Allan C. Golston was elected to the Board of Directors, effective January 1, 2011.
 
Mr. Golston serves as President, United States Program for the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and is a director for Malt-O-Meal, a privately held breakfast cereal corporation.  Mr. Golston had previously been Chief Financial and Administrative Officer for the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation from 2000 to 2006 and Director, Finance for Swedish Health Services from 1997 to 2000.  Mr. Golston holds a master's degree in business from Seattle University and is a Certified Public Accountant.
 
Mr. Golston will be entitled to the fixed annual fee ($60,000 plus an additional $55,000 if he serves on one or more Committees) that the Company will pay to non-employee directors commencing on January 1, 2011 and will receive the same annual equity award that is granted to all non-employee directors in February 2011.  In connection with his appointment to the Company's Board of Directors, the Company will enter into the form of indemnification agreement for directors, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10(xiv) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, with Mr. Golston.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Kalamazoo, Michigan - December 6, 2010 -- Stryker Corporation (NYSE:SYK) announced today that it has entered into a definitive agreement with Olympus Corporation for the sale of its OP-1 product family, which includes OP-1 Implant, OP-1 Putty, Opgenra and Osigraft, for use in orthopaedic bone applications for $60 million. The transaction also includes the sale of the manufacturing facility in Lebanon, NH. The planned sale is aligned with strategic objectives for both companies. Stryker will redirect a portion of the related R&D spending to other internal projects which it believes offers the potential for greater shareholder returns including its clinical efforts already underway with BMP-7 for potential use in osteoarthritis and research into other non-orthopaedic applications. Given the early stage of these clinical efforts and the expected scope of data to be required by FDA, commercialization of BMP-7 is not expected for at least 5 years.
The Boards of Directors of both companies have approved the transaction.    
As a result of today's announcement, Stryker reported that it will incur a one-time non cash charge of approximately $75 to $80 million (net of income tax benefit) in the fourth quarter to reflect the anticipated loss on the sale of the previously described assets, which will reduce diluted net earnings per share by approximately $0.19 to $0.20.  
Excluding the impact of the expected fourth quarter 2010 one-time charge, there is no change to Stryker's guidance for adjusted diluted net earnings per share for 2010, which is expected to be in the range of $3.27 to $3.30, an increase of 11-12% over adjusted net earnings per share of $2.95 in 2009.
Stryker is one of the world's leading medical technology companies and is dedicated to helping healthcare professionals perform their jobs more efficiently while enhancing patient care.   The Company provides innovative orthopaedic implants as well as state-of-the-art medical and surgical equipment to help people lead more active and more satisfying lives.  For more information about Stryker, please visit www.stryker.com.
Contacts
For investor relations inquiries, please contact:
Katherine Owen, Vice President, Strategy and Investor Relations of Stryker Corporation, 269-385-2600
 
For media inquiries please contact:
Aaron Kwittken, Kwittken & Company, 646-747-7144 or stryker@kwitco.com


