FILE:SYK/SYK-8K-20100325095433.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 8 - OTHER EVENTS
 
The Company issued a press release on March 23, 2010 announcing the resolution of FDA warning letter related to the Company's Mahwah, New Jersey manufacturing facility. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
SECTION 9 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
The following exhibit is included with this Report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Kalamazoo, Michigan  March 23, 2010  Stryker Corporation (NYSE:SYK) today announced that it has been informed by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) that the actions undertaken by the Company to address the issues raised in a 2007 Warning Letter are sufficient.
The Company received the Warning Letter from FDA regarding compliance with certain quality system requirements at its reconstructive implant manufacturing facility in Mahwah, New Jersey in 2007. Following FDA re-inspection in 2009 and additional corrective actions, the Company has been informed that issues raised have been adequately addressed and no further formal corrective actions are required.
"The resolution of the Mahwah, New Jersey Warning Letter is another important step in demonstrating our firm commitment to significantly transforming our quality systems throughout our organization" said Stephen P. MacMillan, Stryker's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "The investments we have made, and will continue to make, are resulting in solid progress toward our goals."
About Stryker
Stryker is one of the world's leading medical technology companies and is dedicated to helping healthcare professionals perform their jobs more efficiently while enhancing patient care. The Company provides innovative orthopaedic implants as well as state-of-the-art medical and surgical equipment to help people lead more active and more satisfying lives. For more information about Stryker, please visit .
www.stryker.com
Contacts
For investor relations inquiries, please contact:
Katherine Owen, Vice President, Strategy and Investor Relations of Stryker Corporation,
269-385-2600
For media inquiries please contact:
Gabrielle Zucker, Kwittken & Company, 646-747-7143 or
stryker@kwitco.com


