FILE:SYK/SYK-8K-20100115141039.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 15, 2010, Stryker Corporation (the "Company") completed a public offering of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 3.000% Notes due 2015 (the "2015 Notes") and $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 4.375% Notes due 2020 (the "2020 Notes" and, together with the 2015 Notes, the "Notes"). The Notes were offered by the Company pursuant to its Automatic Shelf Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-164299) and the Prospectus included therein, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 12, 2010 and supplemented by the Prospectus Supplement dated January 12, 2010. The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the offering for working capital and other general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, stock repurchases and other business opportunities.
The Company entered into an Underwriting Agreement, dated January 12, 2010 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), between the Company and Banc of America Securities LLC, Barclays Capital Inc. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as representatives of the underwriters named therein (together, the "Underwriters"), in connection with the issuance and sale by the Company of the Notes. Pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, the Company agreed to sell the Notes to the Underwriters, and the Underwriters agreed to purchase the Notes for resale to the public. The Underwriting Agreement includes customary representations, warranties and covenants by the Company. It also provides for customary indemnification by each of the Company and the Underwriters against certain liabilities and customary contribution provisions in respect of those liabilities.
The Notes were issued under an Indenture, dated January 15, 2010 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated January 15, 2010, between the Company and the Trustee and relating to the 2015 Notes and the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated January 15, 2010, between the Company and the Trustee and relating to the 2020 Notes (together, the "Supplemental Indentures").
The Company sold the 2015 Notes and the 2020 Notes to the Underwriters at issue prices of 99.294% and 98.678% of the principal amounts thereof, respectively. The Underwriters offered the 2015 Notes and the 2020 Notes to the public at prices of 99.894% and 99.328% of the principal amounts thereof, respectively. Interest is payable on the Notes on January 15 and July 15 of each year, commencing on July 15, 2010.
The Company may issue additional debt from time to time pursuant to the Indenture. The Indenture governing the Notes contains covenants that limit the Company's ability to, among other things, incur certain liens securing indebtedness, engage in certain sale and leaseback transactions and enter into certain consolidations, mergers, conveyances, transfers or leases of all or substantially all of the Company's assets. Subject to certain limitations, in the event of the occurrence of both (1) a change of control of the Company and (2) a downgrade of the Notes below investment grade rating by both Moody's Investors Services, Inc. and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services within a specified time period, the Company will be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase.
The foregoing description of the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the Supplemental Indentures does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of such documents, which are filed as Exhibits 1.1, 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3 hereto, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
The Underwriters and their affiliates have performed, from time to time, and may in the future perform, various investment banking, commercial lending, financial advisory and other services for the Company for which they received or will receive customary fees and expenses.
 
The information set forth in Item 1.01 above with respect to the Notes is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03, insofar as it relates to the creation of a direct financial obligation.
 
The Company issued a press release on January 12, 2010 announcing the pricing of the Notes. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The agreements included as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K contain representations and warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement. These representations and warranties were made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement and (i) were not intended to be treated as categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk to one of the parties if those statements prove to be inaccurate; (ii) may have been qualified in such agreement by disclosures that were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation of the applicable agreement; (iii) may apply contract standards of "materiality" that are different from "materiality" under the applicable securities laws; and (iv) were made only as of the date of the applicable agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in the agreement.
The Company acknowledges that, notwithstanding the inclusion of the foregoing cautionary statements, it is responsible for considering whether additional specific disclosures of material information regarding material contractual provisions are required to make the statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K not misleading.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 1.1
Execution Version
January 12, 2010
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC
BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC.
WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC
As Representatives of the several Underwriters
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC
One Bryant Park
New York, NY 10036
BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC.
745 Seventh Avenue
New York, NY 10019
WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC
301 S. College Street
Charlotte, NC 28288
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Stryker Corporation, a Michigan corporation (the ""), proposes to issue and sell to the several underwriters named in Schedule A (the ""), acting severally and not jointly, the respective amounts set forth in such Schedule A of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.000% Notes due 2015 (the "") and $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.375% Notes due 2020 (the "" and together with the 2015 Notes, the ""). Banc of America Securities LLC (""), Barclays Capital Inc. ("") and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC ("") have agreed to act as representatives of the several Underwriters (in such capacity, the "") in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes.
Introductory.
Company
Underwriters
2015 Notes
2020 Notes
Notes
BAS
Barclays
Wells Fargo
Representatives
The Notes will be issued pursuant to an indenture, dated on or about January 15, 2010 (the ""), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, a nationally chartered banking association, as trustee (the ""). Certain terms of the Notes will be established pursuant to one or more supplemental indentures to the Base Indenture (together with the Base Indenture, the ""). The Notes will be issued in book-entry form in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the ""), pursuant to a Letter of Representations, to be dated on or before the Closing Date (as defined in Section 2 below) (the ""), among the Company, the Trustee and the Depositary.
Base Indenture
Trustee
Indenture
Depositary
DTC Agreement
 
The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-164299), which contains a base prospectus (the ""), to be used in connection with the public offering and sale of debt securities, including the Notes, and other securities of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415 under the Securities Act. Such registration statement, including the financial statements, exhibits and schedules thereto, in the form in which it became effective under the Securities Act, including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act, is called the "." The term "" shall mean the final prospectus supplement relating to the Notes, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) after the date and time that this Underwriting Agreement (this "") is executed (the "") by the parties hereto. The term "" shall mean any preliminary prospectus supplement relating to the Notes, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b). Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents that are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act prior to 2:45 p.m. Eastern Time on January 12, 2010 (the ""). All references in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, or any amendments or supplements to any of the foregoing, shall include any copy thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System ("").
Commission
Base Prospectus
Securities Act
Registration Statement
Prospectus
Agreement
Execution Time
Preliminary Prospectus
Initial Sale Time
EDGAR
All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, prior to the Initial Sale Time; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, after the Initial Sale Time.
Exchange Act
The Company hereby confirms its agreements with the Underwriters as follows:
S 1. .
ECTION
Representations and Warranties of the Company
The Company hereby represents and warrants to and agrees with each of the Underwriters as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time and as of the Closing Date (in each case, a ""), as follows:
Representation Date
a) The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the Securities Act. The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the
Compliance with Registration Requirements.
 
Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with. In addition, the Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the "").
Trust Indenture Act
At the respective times the Registration Statement and any post-effective amendments thereto became effective and at each Representation Date, the Registration Statement and any amendments thereto (i) complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act, and (ii) did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. At the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply (A) to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment or the Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any of the Underwriters through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof, or (B) to the Statement of Eligibility under the Trust Indenture Act of the Trustee.
Each Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, at the time each was filed with the Commission, complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, and the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Notes will, at the time of such delivery, be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
b) The term "" shall mean (i) the Preliminary Prospectus dated January 12, 2010, (ii) the issuer free writing prospectuses as defined in Rule 433 of the Securities Act (each, an ""), if any, identified in Annex I hereto and (iii) any other free writing prospectus that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package. As of the Initial Sale Time, the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Disclosure Package.
Disclosure Package
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
 
c) . The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus (i) at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied or will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and (ii) when read together with the other information in the Disclosure Package, at the Initial Sale Time, and when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, at the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, did not or will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Incorporated Documents
d) . (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement, (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), (iii) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the Securities Act) made any offer relating to the Notes in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the Securities Act, and (iv) as of the Execution Time, the Company was and is a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, that automatically became effective not more than three years prior to the Execution Time; the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form and the Company has not otherwise ceased to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration form.
Company is a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
e) . (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement and (ii) as of the Execution Time (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (ii)), the Company was not and is not an Ineligible Issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act), without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 of the Securities Act that it is not necessary that the Company be considered an Ineligible Issuer.
Company is not an Ineligible Issuer
f) . Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering of Notes under this Agreement or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and has promptly amended or supplemented or will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict. The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
 
g) The Company has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Date and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Notes, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes other than the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus reviewed and consented to by the Representatives and included in Annex I hereto or any electronic road show or other written communications reviewed and consented to by the Representatives and listed on Annex II hereto (collectively, ""). Each such Company Additional Written Communication, when taken together with the Disclosure Package, did not, and at the Closing Date will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Company Additional Written Communication based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Distribution of Offering Material By the Company.
Company Additional Written Communication
h) There are no persons with registration or other similar rights to have any equity or debt securities registered for sale under the Registration Statement or included in the offering contemplated by this Agreement.
No Applicable Registration or Other Similar Rights.
i) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
The Underwriting Agreement.
j) . The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and, when duly executed and delivered by the Company and the Trustee, will constitute a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance or transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity).
Authorization of the Indenture
k) The Notes to be purchased by the Underwriters from the Company will be, at the Closing Date, in the form contemplated by the Indenture, have been duly authorized for issuance and sale pursuant to this Agreement and the Indenture and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed by the Company and, when authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and issued and delivered against payment of the purchase price therefor, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance or transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity), and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
Authorization of the Notes.
 
l) The Notes and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the descriptions thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Description of the Notes and the Indenture.
m) The statements in each of the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the captions "Description of the Notes," and "Description of Debt Securities," in each case insofar as such statements purport to constitute a summary of the terms of the Notes and Indenture, fairly present and summarize, in all material respects, the matters referred to therein.
Accuracy of Statements in Prospectus.
n) . Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package, subsequent to the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package, (i) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has sustained any material loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor dispute or court or governmental action, order or decree and (ii) there has been no material adverse change, or any development that could reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse change, in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, management, business, properties or results of operations, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole (any such change is called a "").
No Material Adverse Change
Material Adverse Change
o) Ernst & Young LLP, who have certified certain financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries are, to the knowledge of the Company, independent public accountants with respect to the Company as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and are an independent registered public accounting firm with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Independent Accountants.
p) The financial statements together with the related notes thereto incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries as of and at the dates indicated and the results of their operations and cash flows for the periods specified. Such financial statements comply as to form, in all material respects, with the accounting requirements of the Securities Act, and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles as applied in the United States applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as may be expressly stated in the related notes thereto. No other financial statements are required to be included in the Registration Statement. The selected financial data and the summary financial information included in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly, in all material respects, the information shown therein and have been compiled on a basis consistent with that of the audited financial statements incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Preparation of the Financial Statements.
q) The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Michigan and has the corporate power and authority to own or lease, as the case may be, and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. The Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Company.
 
qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change.
r) . (i) Howmedica Osteonics Corp., a New Jersey corporation (""), has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of New Jersey, and (ii) each other "significant subsidiary" (as such term is defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X) of the Company (together with Howmedica Osteonics, each, a "" and together, the "") has been duly incorporated or formed and is validly existing as a corporation or other business entity in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its formation or incorporation to the extent such concept is applicable in such jurisdiction. Each Significant Subsidiary has the power and authority to own or lease, as the case may be, and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. Each Significant Subsidiary is duly qualified as a foreign corporation or other business entity to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change. All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity interests of each Significant Subsidiary have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and are owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or claim. The Significant Subsidiary owns, directly or indirectly, all of the Principal Properties (as such term is defined in the Indenture).
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Significant Subsidiaries
Howmedica Osteonics
Significant Subsidiary
Significant Subsidiaries
s) The authorized, issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company is as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (other than for subsequent issuances, if any, pursuant to employee benefit plans described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or upon exercise of outstanding options or warrants described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, as the case may be).
Capitalization and Other Capital Stock Matters.
t) Neither the Company nor any of its Significant Subsidiaries is (i) in violation or in default (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would be in default) ("") under its articles of incorporation, charter or by-laws, (ii) in Default under any indenture, mortgage, loan or credit agreement, deed of trust, note, contract, franchise, lease or other agreement, obligation, condition, covenant or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject (each, an "") or (iii) in violation of any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of its or their properties, as applicable, except, with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) only, for such Defaults or violations as would not, individually or in the aggregate result in a Material Adverse Change. The Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and consummation of the transactions
Non-Contravention of Existing Instruments; No Further Authorizations or Approvals Required.
Default
Existing Instrument
 
contemplated hereby (i) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and will not result in any Default under the articles of incorporation, charter or by-laws of the Company or any subsidiary, (ii) will not conflict with or constitute a breach of, or Default or a Debt Repayment Triggering Event (as defined below) under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, or require the consent of any other party to, any Existing Instrument, and (iii) will not result in any violation of any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree applicable to the Company or any of its subsidiaries of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its properties or any of its subsidiaries or any of their properties, except with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) above, such conflicts, breaches, Defaults liens, charges, encumbrances, consents or violations that would not individually or in the aggregate result in a Material Adverse Change or adversely affect the Notes or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. No consent, approval, authorization or other order of, or registration or filing with, any court or other governmental or regulatory authority or agency having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their properties is required for the Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, except such as have been obtained or made by the Company and are in full force and effect under the Securities Act and such as may be required by applicable state securities or blue sky laws and from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (the "") and except as would not result in a Material Adverse Change or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. As used herein, a "" means any event or condition which gives, or with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both would give, the holder of any note, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) issued by the Company, the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
FINRA
Debt Repayment Triggering Event
u) Except as disclosed in the Prospectus and the Disclosure Package, there are no legal or governmental actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the best of the Company's knowledge, threatened (i) against the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) which has as the subject thereof any officer or director of, or property owned or leased by, the Company or any of its subsidiaries or (iii) relating to the manufacture or sale of the products of the Company or its subsidiaries or to environmental or discrimination matters related to the Company or its subsidiaries, where any such action, suit or proceeding, if determined adversely, could, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
No Material Actions or Proceedings.
v) Except as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or except for such disputes or disturbances that would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change, (i) no labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists, and, (ii) the Company is not aware of any existing or imminent labor disturbance by the employees of any of its or its subsidiaries' principal suppliers, contractors or customers.
Labor Matters.
w) Except as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and as would not result in a Material Adverse Change, the Company or its subsidiaries own, license, possess or have other rights to use, on reasonable terms, all
Intellectual Property Rights.
 
patents, patent applications, trade and service marks, trade and service mark registrations, trade names, copyrights, patentable inventions, trade secrets, technology, know-how and other intellectual property (collectively, the "") necessary for the conduct of the Company's or its subsidiaries' business as now conducted or as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus to be conducted. Except as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or as would not result in a Material Adverse Change (i) no party has been granted an exclusive license to use any portion of such Intellectual Property owned by the Company; (ii) to the Company's knowledge, there is no material infringement by third parties of any of the Company's Intellectual Property owned or exclusively licensed by the Company; (iii) there is no pending or threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others challenging the Company's rights in or to any Intellectual Property; (iv) there is no pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others challenging the validity or scope of any such Intellectual Property; and (v) there is no pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others that the Company's business as now conducted infringes or otherwise violates any patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret or other proprietary rights of others.
Intellectual Property
x) The Company and each Significant Subsidiary possess such valid and current certificates, authorizations, permits, licenses, approvals, consents and other authorizations issued by the appropriate state, federal or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct their respective businesses, except where the failure to possess such licenses, certificates, authorizations, permits, approvals, consents or other authorizations would not result in a Material Adverse Change, and neither the Company nor any Significant Subsidiary has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of, or non-compliance with, any such certificate, authorization, permit, license, approval, consent or other authorization which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would result in a Material Adverse Change.
All Necessary Permits, etc.
y) Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company and each of its subsidiaries have good and marketable title to all the properties and assets reflected as owned in the financial statements referred to in Section 1(p) above (or elsewhere in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus), in each case free and clear of any security interests, mortgages, liens, encumbrances, equities, claims and other defects, except such as would not result in a Material Adverse Change. The real property, improvements, equipment and personal property held under lease by the Company or any subsidiary are held under valid and enforceable leases, except as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or such as do not and would not result in a Material Adverse Change.
Title to Properties.
z) Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company has filed, in a timely manner, all federal, state, local and foreign tax returns that are required to be filed or has requested and received extensions thereof and has paid all taxes required to be paid by it and, if due and payable, any related or similar assessment, fine or penalty levied against it, except for any taxes, assessments, fines or penalties as may be being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings, and except in each case where a default to make such filings or payments would not result in a Material Adverse Change.
Tax Law Compliance.
 
aa) The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Notes and the application of the proceeds thereof as contemplated under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus will not be, required to register as an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Company Not an Investment Company.
bb) The Company and its subsidiaries together maintain or are entitled to the benefits of insurance covering their properties, operations, personnel and businesses as are reasonably adequate in accordance with customary industry practice to protect the Company and its subsidiaries and their businesses taken as a whole.
Insurance.
cc) The Company has not taken and will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would be reasonably expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
No Price Stabilization or Manipulation.
dd) There are no business relationships or related-party transactions involving the Company or any subsidiary or any other person required to be described in the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus that have not been described as required.
Related Party Transactions.
ee) Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, none of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is aware of or has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result, individually or in the aggregate, in a material violation by such persons of the FCPA (as defined below), including, without limitation, making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any "foreign official" (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA, and the Company, its subsidiaries and, to the knowledge of the Company, its affiliates have conducted their businesses in compliance in all material respects with the FCPA and have instituted and maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure, and which are reasonably expected to continue to ensure, continued compliance therewith.
No Unlawful Contributions or Other Payments.
"" means Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
FCPA
ff) The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance in all material respects with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all applicable jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or
No Conflict with Money Laundering Laws.
Money Laundering Laws
 
governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened.
gg) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department (""); and the Company will not, directly or indirectly, use the proceeds of the offering, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds, to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
No Conflict with OFAC Laws.
OFAC
hh) Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company and its subsidiaries (i) are in compliance with any and all applicable foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and safety, the environment or hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants (""), (ii) have received and are in compliance with all permits, licenses or other approvals required of them under applicable Environmental Laws to conduct their respective businesses and (iii) have not received notice of any actual or potential liability under any environmental law, except where such non-compliance with Environmental Laws, failure to receive required permits, licenses or other approvals, or liability would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change. Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has been named as a "potentially responsible party" under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended.
Compliance with Environmental Laws.
Environmental Laws
ii) . None of the following events has occurred or exists: (i) a failure to fulfill the obligations, if any, under the minimum funding standards of Section 302 of the United States Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (""), and the regulations and published interpretations thereunder with respect to a Plan (as defined below), determined without regard to any waiver of such obligations or extension of any amortization period; (ii) an audit or investigation by the Internal Revenue Service, the U.S. Department of Labor, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any other federal or state governmental agency or any foreign regulatory agency with respect to the employment or compensation of employees by any member of the Company that could have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company; (iii) any breach of any contractual obligation, or any violation of law or applicable qualification standards, with respect to the employment or compensation of employees by any member of the Company that could have a Material Adverse Effect. None of the following events has occurred or is reasonably likely to occur: (i) a material increase in the aggregate amount of contributions required to be made to all Plans in the current fiscal year of the Company compared to the amount of such contributions made in the Company's most recently completed fiscal year; (ii) a material increase in the Company's "accumulated post-retirement benefit obligations" (within the meaning of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 106) compared to the amount of such obligations in the Company's most recently completed fiscal year; (iii) any event or condition giving rise to a liability under Title IV of ERISA that could have a Material Adverse Effect; or (iv) the filing of a claim by one or more employees or former employees of the Company related to their employment that could have a Material Adverse Effect.
ERISA Compliance
ERISA
 
For purposes of this paragraph, the term "Plan" means a plan (within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA) subject to Title IV of ERISA with respect to which any member of the Company may have any liability.
jj) . Except for the Underwriters, there is no broker, finder or other party that is entitled to receive from the Company any brokerage or finder's fee or other fee or commission as a result of any transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Brokers
kk) . There are no outstanding loans, advances (except normal advances for business expenses in the ordinary course of business) or guarantees or indebtedness by the Company to or for the benefit of any of the officers or directors of the Company, except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
No Outstanding Loans or Other Indebtedness
ll) . There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company and any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith (the ""), including Section 402 related to loans and Sections 302 and 906 related to certifications.
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
mm) . The Company maintains "disclosure controls and procedures" (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act); such disclosure controls and procedures are effective in all material respects.
Company's Accounting System
nn) The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (A) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (B) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain asset accountability; (C) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (D) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
Internal Controls and Procedures.
oo) Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, since the end of the Company's most recent audited fiscal year, there has been (i) no material weakness in the Company's internal control over financial reporting (whether or not remediated) and (ii) no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
No Material Weakness in Internal Controls.
pp) . The financial data contained in the portions of the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "") that are incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement were accurate in all material respects at the time the Proxy Statement was filed with the Commission.
Definitive Proxy Statement
Proxy Statement
Any certificate signed by an officer of the Company and delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters set forth therein.
 
S 2.
ECTION
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Notes.
a) The Company agrees to issue and sell to the several Underwriters, severally and not jointly, all of the Notes upon the terms herein set forth. On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Underwriters agree, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the aggregate principal amount of Notes set forth opposite their names on Schedule A, plus any additional principal amount of Notes that such Underwriter may become obligated to purchase pursuant to the provisions of Section 10 hereof, at a purchase price of 99.294% of the principal amount of the 2015 Notes and 98.678% principal amount of the 2020 Notes, payable on the Closing Date. The Company will not be obligated to deliver any of the Notes except upon payment for all the Notes to be purchased as provided herein.
The Notes.
b) Delivery of certificates for the Notes in global form to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment therefor shall be made at the offices of Winston & Strawn LLP, 35 W. Wacker Dr., Chicago, Illinois 60601 (or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the Representatives) at 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on January 15, 2010 (unless postponed in accordance with the provisions of Section 10 hereof), or such other time and date as the Underwriters and the Company shall mutually agree (the time and date of such closing are called the "").
The Closing Date.
Closing Date
c) The Representatives hereby advise the Company that the Underwriters intend to offer for sale to the public, as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, their respective portions of the Notes as soon after the Execution Time as the Representatives, in their sole judgment, have determined is advisable and practicable.
Public Offering of the Notes.
d) Payment for the Notes shall be made at the Closing Date by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the order of the Company.
Payment for the Notes.
It is understood that the Representatives have been authorized, for their own accounts and for the accounts of the several Underwriters, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Notes that the Underwriters have agreed to purchase. The Representatives may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment for any Notes to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds shall not have been received by the Representatives by the Closing Date for the account of such Underwriter, but any such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from any of its obligations under this Agreement.
e) The Company shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters certificates for the Notes at the Closing Date, against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor. The certificates for the Notes shall be in such denominations and registered in such names and denominations as the Representatives shall have requested at least two full business days prior to the Closing Date and shall be made available for inspection on the business day preceding the Closing Date at a location in New York City, as the Representatives may designate. Time shall be of the essence, and delivery at the time and place specified in this Agreement is a further condition to the obligations of the Underwriters.
Delivery of the Notes.
 
S 3.
ECTION
Covenants of the Company.
The Company covenants and agrees with each Underwriter as follows:
a) The Company, subject to Section 3(b), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B of the Securities Act, and during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined below) will promptly notify the Representatives, and confirm the notice in writing, of (i) the effectiveness of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any supplement or amendment to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission, (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or for additional information, and (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Notes for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes. The Company will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424 and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424 was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file such document. The Company will use its reasonable efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment.
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests.
b) During such period beginning on the date of this Agreement and ending on the later of the Closing Date or such date as, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales of the Notes by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 of the Securities Act (the ""), the Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement (including any filing under Rule 462(b) of the Securities Act), or any amendment, supplement or revision to the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise, will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall reasonably object.
Filing of Amendments.
Prospectus Delivery Period
c) The Company has furnished or will deliver, upon request, to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, signed copies of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein) and signed copies of all consents and certificates of experts, and will also deliver to the Representatives, without charge, a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters. The Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Registration Statements.
 
d) The Company will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of the Preliminary Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the Securities Act. The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, such number of copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Prospectuses.
e) . The Company will comply with the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, including, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, so as to permit, and until the completion of, the distribution of the Notes as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order that the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as the case may be, will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing at the Initial Sale Time or at the time it is delivered or conveyed to a purchaser, not misleading, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of either such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of any law, the Company will (1) notify the Representatives of any such event, development or condition and (2) promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b) hereof, such amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus comply with such law, and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as the Underwriters may reasonably request.
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
f) The Company shall cooperate with the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, as the Underwriters may reasonably request from time to time, to qualify or register the Notes for sale under (or obtain exemptions from the application of) the state securities or blue sky laws of those jurisdictions designated by the Representatives, shall comply with such laws and shall continue such qualifications, registrations and exemptions in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Notes. The Company shall not be required to qualify as a foreign corporation or to take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not presently qualified or where it would be subject to taxation as a foreign business. The Company will advise the Representatives promptly after the Company becomes aware of the suspension of the qualification or registration of (or any such exemption relating to) the Notes for offering, sale or trading in any jurisdiction or any initiation or threat
Blue Sky Compliance.
 
of any proceeding for any such purpose, and in the event of the issuance of any order suspending such qualification, registration or exemption, the Company shall use its best efforts to obtain the withdrawal thereof at the earliest possible moment.
g) The Company shall apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes sold by it in the manner described under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Use of Proceeds.
h) The Company will cooperate with the Underwriters and use its best efforts to permit the Notes to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of the Depositary.
Depositary.
i) During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company shall file, on a timely basis, with the Commission all reports and documents required to be filed under the Exchange Act.
Periodic Reporting Obligations.
j) During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives (which consent may be withheld at the sole discretion of the Representatives), directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract or grant any option to sell, pledge, transfer or establish an open "put equivalent position" within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(h) under the Exchange Act, or otherwise dispose of or transfer, or announce the offering of, or file any registration statement under the Securities Act in respect of, any debt securities of the Company similar to the Notes or securities exchangeable for or convertible into debt securities similar to the Notes (other than as contemplated by this Agreement with respect to the Notes).
Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities.
k) . The Company will prepare a final term sheet containing only a description of the Notes, in a form approved by the Representatives and attached as Exhibit D hereto, and will file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act within the time required by such rule (such term sheet, the ""). Any such Final Term Sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
Final Term Sheet
Final Term Sheet
l) . The Company represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representatives, and each Underwriter represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Company and the Representatives, it will not make, any offer relating to the Notes that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 of the Securities Act; provided that the prior written consent of the Company and the Representatives shall be deemed to have been given in respect of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in Annex I to this Agreement. Any such free writing prospectus consented to or deemed to be consented to by the Company and the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "." The Company agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 of the Securities Act applicable to
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
 
any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission where required, legending and record keeping. The Company consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that (a) is not an "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Notes or their offering, (ii) information permitted by Rule 134 under the Securities Act or (iii) information that describes the final terms of the Notes or their offering and that is included in the Final Term Sheet of the Company contemplated in Section 3(k).
m) . If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Notes, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement of post-effective amendment to be declared effective and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness. The Company will take all other action reasonably necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Notes to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
Notice of Inability to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Statement Form
n) . The Company agrees to pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Notes within the time required by and in accordance with Rule 456(b)(1) and 457(r) of the Securities Act.
Filing Fees
o) The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to cause or result in, or that has constituted or might reasonably be expected to constitute, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
No Manipulation of Price.
The Representatives, on behalf of the several Underwriters, may, in their sole discretion, waive in writing the performance by the Company of any one or more of the foregoing covenants or extend the time for their performance.
S 4. The Company agrees to pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder and in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including (i) all expenses incident to the issuance and delivery of the Notes to the Underwriters (including all printing and engraving costs), (ii) all necessary issue, transfer and other stamp taxes in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes to the Underwriters, (iii) all fees and expenses of the Company's counsel, independent public or certified public accountants and other advisors to the Company, (iv) all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, printing, filing, shipping and distribution of the Registration Statement (including financial statements, exhibits, schedules, consents and certificates of experts), each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and all amendments and supplements thereto, and this Agreement, the
ECTION
Payment of Expenses.
 
Indenture, the DTC Agreement and the Notes, (v) all filing fees, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by the Company or the Underwriters (not to exceed $20,000 in the case of counsel for the Underwriters) in connection with qualifying or registering (or obtaining exemptions from the qualification or registration of) all or any part of the Notes for offer and sale under the state securities or blue sky laws, and, if requested by the Representatives, preparing a "Blue Sky Survey" or memorandum, and any supplements thereto, advising the Underwriters of such qualifications, registrations and exemptions, (vi) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with, the review, if any, by the FINRA of the terms of the sale of the Notes, (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Notes, (viii) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Notes with the ratings agencies, (ix) all fees and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of the Company in connection with approval of the Notes by the Depositary for "book-entry" transfer, (x) all other fees, costs and expenses referred to in Item 14 of Part II of the Registration Statement, and (xi) all other fees, costs and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section. Except as provided in this Section 4 and Sections 6, 8 and 9 hereof, the Underwriters shall pay their own costs and expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
S 5. The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Notes as provided herein on the Closing Date shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company set forth in Section 1 hereof as of each Representation Date as though then made and to the timely performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to each of the following additional conditions:
ECTION
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters.
a) . The Registration Statement shall have become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or be pending or threatened by the Commission, any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters and the Company shall not have received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b) (or any required post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and declared effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430B).
Effectiveness of Registration Statement
b) On the date hereof, the Representatives shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accountants for the Company, a letter dated the date hereof addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives with respect to the audited and unaudited financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Accountants' Comfort Letter.
 
c) . On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP, independent public or certified public accountants for the Company, a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished by them pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 5, except that the specified date referred to therein for the carrying out of procedures shall be no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
d) For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date:
No Material Adverse Change or Ratings Agency Change.
(i) there shall not have occurred any Material Adverse Change that makes it, in the sole judgment of the Representatives, impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Notes as contemplated by the Prospectus; and
(ii) there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of any intended or potential downgrading or of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in the rating accorded to the Notes or any other debt securities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act.
e) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the opinions of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and Warner Norcross & Judd LLP, outside counsel for the Company, and Michael Cartier, Deputy General Counsel of the Company, each dated as of such Closing Date, in the forms attached hereto as Exhibit A, Exhibit B, and Exhibit C, respectively.
Opinion of Counsel for the Company.
f) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Winston & Strawn LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, dated as of such Closing Date, with respect to such matters as may be reasonably requested by the Underwriters.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters.
g) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received a written certificate executed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer or a Vice President of the Company and the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer or Treasurer of the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, to the effect that:
Officers' Certificate.
(i) the Company has received no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, and no proceedings for such purpose have been instituted or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened by the Commission;
(ii) the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form;
 
(iii) the representations and warranties of the Company set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made on and as of such Closing Date; and
(iv) the Company has complied with all the agreements hereunder and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to such Closing Date.
h) DocumentsOn or before the Closing Date, the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters shall have received such information, documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purposes of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Notes as contemplated herein, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations and warranties, or the satisfaction of any of the conditions or agreements, herein contained.
Additional
.
If any condition specified in this Section 5 is not satisfied when and as required to be satisfied, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time on or prior to the Closing Date, which termination shall be without liability on the part of any party to any other party, except that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
S 6. If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives pursuant to Section 5 or 11, or if the sale to the Underwriters of the Notes on the Closing Date is not consummated because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or to comply with any provision hereof, the Company agrees to reimburse the Representatives and the other Underwriters (or such Underwriters as have terminated this Agreement with respect to themselves), severally, upon demand for all out-of-pocket expenses that shall have been reasonably incurred by the Representatives and the Underwriters in connection with the proposed purchase and the offering and sale of the Notes, including but not limited to fees and disbursements of counsel, printing expenses, travel expenses, postage, facsimile and telephone charges.
ECTION
Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses.
S 7. This Agreement shall not become effective until the execution and delivery of this Agreement by the parties hereto.
ECTION
Effectiveness of this Agreement.
S 8.
ECTION
Indemnification.
(a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its directors, officers, employees and agents, and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to
Indemnification of the Underwriters.
 
be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and to reimburse each Underwriter and each such director, officer, employee, agent and controlling person for any and all expenses (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the Representatives) as such expenses are incurred by such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; , that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by the Underwriter consists of the information described in Section 8(b) hereof. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(a) shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company may otherwise have.
provided, however
(b) Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which the Company or any such director, officer or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of such Underwriter), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in the Registration Statement, any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein; and to reimburse the Company,
Indemnification of the Company, its Directors and Officers.
 
or any such director, officer or controlling person for any legal and other expense reasonably incurred as such expenses are incurred by the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action. The Company hereby acknowledges that the only information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) are the statements set forth in: (i) the third paragraph in the text under the caption "Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus concerning the terms of the offering, including the concession and reallowance to certain dealers, by the Underwriters; (ii) the fifth paragraph of text under the caption "Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus relating to over-allotment and stabilization by the Underwriters; and (iii) the sixth paragraph of text under the caption " Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus relating to penalty bids which may be imposed by the Underwriters. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(b) shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Underwriter may otherwise have.
(c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party will not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party for contribution or otherwise than under the indemnity agreement contained in this Section 8 or to the extent it is not prejudiced as a proximate result of such failure. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in, and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party; provided, however, such indemnified party shall have the right to employ its own counsel in any such action and to participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party, unless: (i) the employment of such counsel has been specifically authorized in writing by the indemnifying party; (ii) the indemnifying party has failed promptly to assume the defense and employ counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party; or (iii) the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) include both such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or any affiliate of the indemnifying party, and such indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that either (x) there may be one or more legal defenses available to it which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party or (y) a conflict may exist between such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not, in connection with any one such action or separate but substantially similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to a single firm of local counsel) for all such indemnified parties, which firm shall be designated in writing by the indemnified party (or by the Representatives as in the case of Section 8(b)) and that all such reasonable
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures.
 
fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred). After notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 8 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the next preceding sentence, in which case the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
(d) The indemnifying party under this Section 8 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Settlements.
S 9. . If the indemnification provided for in Section 8 is for any reason held to be unavailable to or otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party, in lieu of indemnifying such indemnified party thereunder, shall contribute to the aggregate amount paid or payable by such indemnified party, as incurred, as a result of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the front cover page of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Notes as set forth on such cover. The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or the Underwriters, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
ECTION
Contribution
 
The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8(c), any reasonable legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim.
The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 9 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 9.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the underwriting commissions received by such Underwriter in connection with the Notes underwritten by it and distributed to the public. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 9 are several, and not joint, in proportion to their respective underwriting commitments as set forth opposite their names in Schedule A. For purposes of this Section 9, each director, officer, employee and agent of an Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
S 10. If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the several Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Notes that it has or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on such date, and the aggregate principal amount of Notes which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be purchased on such date, the other Underwriters shall be obligated, severally, in the proportion to the aggregate principal amounts of such Notes set forth opposite their respective names on Schedule A bears to the aggregate principal amount of such Notes set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Representatives with the consent of the non-defaulting Underwriters, to purchase such Notes which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase such Notes and the aggregate principal amount of such Notes with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes to be purchased on such date, and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Notes are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party except that the provisions of Sections 4, 8, 9 and 18 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination. In any such case, either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
ECTION
Default of One or More of the Several Underwriters.
 
As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 10. Any action taken under this Section 10 shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
S 11. Prior to the Closing Date, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice given to the Company if at any time (i) trading or quotation in any of the Company's securities shall have been suspended or limited by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange, or trading in securities generally on either the Nasdaq Stock Market or the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices shall have been generally established on any of such stock exchanges by the Commission or the FINRA; (ii) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared by any of federal or New York authorities; (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of national or international hostilities or any crisis or calamity involving the United States, or any change in the United States or international financial markets, or any substantial change or development involving a prospective substantial change in United States' or international political, financial or economic conditions, as in the judgment of the Representatives is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to market the Notes in the manner and on the terms described in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or to enforce contracts for the sale of securities; or (iv) there shall have occurred a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States or a material disruption in the Clearstream Banking and/or Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. settlement systems. Any termination pursuant to this Section 11 shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Sections 4 and 6 hereof, and provided further that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
ECTION
Termination of this Agreement.
S 12. . The Company acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Notes and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company or its affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
ECTION
No Fiduciary Duty
 
S 13. This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the several Underwriters with respect to the subject matter hereof. The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
ECTION
Entire Agreement.
S 14. The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company, of its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement (i) will remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any (A) investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the officers or employees of any Underwriter, or any person controlling the Underwriter, the Company, the officers or employees of the Company, or any person controlling the Company, as the case may be or (B) acceptance of the Notes and payment for them hereunder and (ii) will survive delivery of and payment for the Notes sold hereunder and any termination of this Agreement.
ECTION
Representations and Indemnities to Survive Delivery.
S 15. All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed, hand delivered or telecopied and confirmed to the parties hereto as follows:
ECTION
Notices.
If to the Representatives:
Banc of America Securities LLC
One Bryant Park
NY1-100-18-03
New York, NY 10036
Facsimile: 646-855-5958
Attention: High Grade Transaction Management/Legal
and
Barclays Capital Inc.
745 Seventh Avenue
New York, NY 10019
Facsimile: 646-834-8133
Attention: Syndicate Registration
and
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
301 S. College Street
Charlotte, NC 28288
Attention: Transaction Management Department
Facsimile: 704-383-9165
with a copy to:
Winston & Strawn LLP
35 W. Wacker Dr.
 
Chicago, IL 60601
Facsimile: 312-558-5700
Attention: James J. Junewicz
If to the Company:
Stryker Corporation
2825 Airview Boulevard
Kalamazoo, Michigan 49002
Facsimile: 269-385-2066
Attention: Thomas R. Winkel, Vice President and Secretary
with a copy to:
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
155 North Wacker Drive
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Facsimile: 312-407-0411
Attention: William R. Kunkel
Any party hereto may change the address for receipt of communications by giving written notice to the others.
S 16. This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Underwriters pursuant to Section 10 hereof, and to the benefit of the directors, officers, employees, agents and controlling persons referred to in Sections 8 and 9, and in each case their respective successors, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder. The term "successors" shall not include any purchaser of the Notes as such from any of the Underwriters merely by reason of such purchase.
ECTION
Successors.
S 17. The invalidity or unenforceability of any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other Section, paragraph or provision hereof. If any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
ECTION
Partial Unenforceability.
S 18. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN THAT STATE.
ECTION
Governing Law Provisions.
S 19. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit. The Section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
ECTION
General Provisions.
 
Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that it is a sophisticated business person who was adequately represented by counsel during negotiations regarding the provisions hereof, including, without limitation, the indemnification provisions of Section 8 and the contribution provisions of Section 9, and is fully informed regarding said provisions. Each of the parties hereto further acknowledges that the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 hereto fairly allocate the risks in light of the ability of the parties to investigate the Company, its affairs and its business in order to assure that adequate disclosure has been made in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (and any amendments and supplements thereto), as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copies hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts hereof, shall become a binding agreement in accordance with its terms.
 
The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted by the Representatives as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
Final Term Sheet dated January 12, 2010
 
Electronic (Netroadshow) road show of the Company relating to the offering of the Notes dated January 12, 2010.
 
 
Note: A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at . Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling or e-mailing Banc of America Securities LLC at 1-800-294-1322 or , Barclays Capital Inc. at 1-888-603-5847 or , or Wells Fargo Securities, LLC at 1-800-326-5897 or .
www.sec.gov
dg.prospectus_distribution@bofasecurities.com
barclaysprospectus@broadridge.com
Prospectus.specialrequests@wachovia.com
 
Note: A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these
documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at . Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling or e-mailing Banc of America Securities LLC at 1-800-294-1322 or , Barclays Capital Inc. at 1-888-603-5847 or , or Wells Fargo Securities, LLC at 1-800-326-5897 or .
www.sec.gov
dg.prospectus_distribution@bofasecurities.com
barclaysprospectus@broadridge.com
Prospectus.specialrequests@wachovia.com

Exhibit 4.1
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDENTURE, dated as of January 15, 2010, between Stryker Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Michigan (herein called the "Company"), having its principal office at 2825 Airview Boulevard, Kalamazoo, Michigan and U.S. Bank National Association, a nationally chartered banking association, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee").
The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of its unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein called the "Securities"), which may be convertible into or exchangeable for any securities of any persons (including the Company), to be issued in one or more series as in this Indenture provided.
All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of any series thereof, as follows:
SECTION 101.
Definitions.
For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
(1) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular;
(2) all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein;
(3) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, the term "generally accepted accounting principles" with respect to any computation required or permitted hereunder shall mean such accounting principles as are generally accepted as consistently applied by the Company at the date of such computation;
(4) unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to an "Article", a "Section" or an "Exhibit" refers to an Article, a Section or an Exhibit, as the case may be, of or to this Indenture; and
(5) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
Certain terms, used principally in Article VI and Article XIII, are defined in those Articles.
"Act", when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in Section 104.
"Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
"Authenticating Agent" means any Person authorized by the Trustee pursuant to Section 614 to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of one or more series.
"Authorized Newspaper" means a newspaper, in the English language or in an official language of the country of publication, customarily published on each Business Day, whether or not published on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays, and of general circulation in each place in connection with which the term is used or in the financial community of each such place. Where successive publications are required to be made in Authorized Newspapers, the successive publications may be made in the same or in different newspapers in the same city meeting the foregoing requirements and in each case on any Business Day.
"Board of Directors" means either the board of directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of that board of directors.
"Board Resolution" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
"Business Day", when used with respect to any Place of Payment, means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday that is not a day on which banking institutions in that Place of Payment are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
"Commission" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act, or, if at any time after the execution of this instrument the United States Securities and Exchange Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
"Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
"Company Request" or "Company Order" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by its Chief Executive Officer, its President or a Vice President, and by its Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Controller or an Assistant Controller, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee.
"Corporate Trust Office" means the office of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be administered, which as of the date hereof is located at 40 Pearl Street NW, Suite 838, Grand Rapids, MI 49503, Attn: Corporate Trust Services.
"corporation" means a corporation, association, company, limited liability company, joint-stock company or business trust.
"covenant defeasance" has the meaning specified in Section 1303.
"Defaulted Interest" has the meaning specified in Section 307.
"defeasance" has the meaning specified in Section 1302.
 
"Depositary" means, with respect to Securities of any series issuable in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities, a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act that is designated to act as Depositary for such Securities as contemplated by Section 301, which shall initially be the Depositary Trust Company.
"Event of Default" has the meaning specified in Section 501.
"Exchange Act" means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.
"Expiration Date" has the meaning specified in Section 104.
"Global Security" means a Security that evidences all or part of the Securities of any series and bears the legend set forth in Section 202 (or such legend as may be specified as contemplated by Section 301 for such Securities).
"Government Obligation" has the meaning specified in Section 1304.
"Holder" means the Person in whose name the Security is registered in the Security Register.
"Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed and as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, including, for all purposes of this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, respectively. The term "Indenture" shall also include the terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 301.
"interest", when used with respect to an Original Issue Discount Security which by its terms bears interest only after Maturity, means interest payable after Maturity.
"Interest Payment Date", when used with respect to any Security, means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on such Security.
"Investment Company Act" means the United States Investment Company Act of 1940 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.
"Maturity", when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
"Notice of Default" means a written notice of the kind specified in Section 501(4).
"Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed by the Chief Executive Officer, the President or a Vice President, and by the Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Controller or an Assistant Controller, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee. One of the officers signing an Officers' Certificate given pursuant to Section 1004 shall be the principal executive, financial or accounting officer of the Company.
"Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel, which may be an employee of or counsel for the Company.
"Original Issue Discount Security" means any Security which provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502.
 
"Outstanding", when used with respect to Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (including Securities held by the Company or an Affiliate),
except:
(1) Securities theretofore cancelled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
(2) Securities for whose payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities; that, if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made;
provided
(3) Securities, except to the extent provided in Sections 1302 and 1303, with respect to which the Company has effected defeasance or covenant defeasance as provided in Article XIII; and
(4) Securities that have been paid pursuant to Section 306 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Company;
, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given, made or taken any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action hereunder as of any date or whether a quorum is present at a meeting of Holders of Securities, (A) the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security which shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the amount of the principal thereof that would be due and payable as of such date upon acceleration of the Maturity thereof to such date pursuant to Section 502, (B) if, as of such date, the principal amount payable at the Stated Maturity of a Security is not determinable, the principal amount of such Security that shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the amount as specified or determined as contemplated by Section 301, (C) the principal amount of a Security denominated in one or more foreign currencies or currency units which shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the U.S. dollar equivalent, determined as of such date in the manner provided as contemplated by Section 301, of the principal amount of such Security (or, in the case of a Security described in Clause (A) or (B) above, of the amount determined as provided in such Clause), and (D) Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver, or other action, or upon any such determination as to the presence of a quorum, only Securities that a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned that have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor.
provided, however
"Paying Agent" means any Person authorized by the Company to pay the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities on behalf of the Company, which shall initially be the Trustee.
"Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
"Place of Payment", when used with respect to the Securities of any series, means the place or places specified in accordance with Section 301 where the principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities of that series are payable.
 
"Predecessor Security" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 306 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security.
"Redemption Date", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
"Redemption Price", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
"Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Securities of any series means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by Section 301.
"Responsible Officer", when used with respect to the Trustee, means any vice president, the treasurer, any assistant treasurer, any trust officer or assistant trust officer, the controller or any assistant controller or any other officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by any of the above designated officers and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
"Securities" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and more particularly means any Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture , that if at any time there is more than one Person acting as Trustee under this Indenture, "Securities" with respect to the Indenture as to which such Person is Trustee shall have the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and shall more particularly mean Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, exclusive, however, of Securities of any series as to which such Person is not Trustee.
provided, however
"Securities Act" means the United States Securities Act of 1933 and any statute successor thereto, in each case as amended from time to time.
"Security Register" and "Security Registrar" have the respective meanings specified in Section 305.
"Special Record Date" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 307.
"Stated Maturity", when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable.
"Subsidiary" means a corporation, partnership or other legal entity of which, in the case of a corporation, more than 50% of the outstanding voting stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or by one or more other Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more other Subsidiaries or, in the case of any partnership or other legal entity, more than 50% of the ordinary capital interests is, at the time, directly or indirectly owned or controlled by the Company or by one or more other Subsidiaries. For the purposes of this definition, "voting stock" means the equity interest that ordinarily has voting power for the election of directors, managers or trustees of an entity, or persons performing similar functions, whether at all times or only so long as no senior class of equity interest has such voting power by reason of any contingency.
"Trust Indenture Act" means the United States Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this instrument was executed; that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as so amended.
provided, however,
 
"Trustee" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
"United States Alien" means any Person who, for United States Federal income tax purposes, is a foreign corporation, a non-resident alien individual, a non-resident alien fiduciary of a foreign estate or trust, or a foreign partnership one or more of the members of which is, for United States Federal income tax purposes, a foreign corporation, a non-resident alien individual or a non-resident alien fiduciary of a foreign estate or trust.
"Vice President", when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president".
SECTION 102.
Compliance Certificates and Opinions.
Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee such certificates and opinions as may be required under the Trust Indenture Act. Each such certificate or opinion shall be given in the form of an Officers' Certificate, if to be given by an officer of the Company, or an Opinion of Counsel, if to be given by counsel, and shall comply with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act and any other requirements set forth in this Indenture.
Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture (except for certificates provided for in Section 1004) shall include:
(1) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;
(2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
(3) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
(4) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
SECTION 103.
Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee.
In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or opinion of counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
 
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
SECTION 104.
Acts of Holders; Record Dates.
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Indenture to be given, made or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by agent duly appointed in writing. Except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Section 601) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
The principal amount and serial numbers of Securities held by any Person, and the date of holding the same, shall be proved by the Security Register.
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
The Company may set any day as a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities of any series entitled to give, make or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Indenture to be given, made or taken by Holders of Securities of such series, that the Company may not set a record date for, and the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply with respect to, the giving or making of any notice, declaration, request or direction referred to in the next paragraph.
provided,
If any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on such record date, and no other Holders, shall be entitled to take the relevant action, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; that no such action shall be effective hereunder unless taken on or prior to the applicable Expiration Date by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent the Company from setting a new record date for any action for which a record date has previously been set pursuant to this paragraph (whereupon the record date previously set shall automatically and with no action by any Person be cancelled and of no effect), and nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any action taken by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on the date such action is taken. Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Company, at its own expense, shall cause notice of such record date, the proposed action by Holders and the applicable Expiration Date to be given to the Trustee in writing and to each Holder of Securities of the relevant series in the manner set forth in Section 106.
provided,
 
The Trustee may set any day as a record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Outstanding Securities of any series entitled to join in the giving or making of (i) any Notice of Default, (ii) any declaration of acceleration referred to in Section 502, (iii) any request to institute proceedings referred to in Section 507(2) or (iv) any direction referred to in Section 512, in each case with respect to Securities of such series. If any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date, and no other Holders, shall be entitled to join in such notice, declaration, request or direction, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date; that no such action shall be effective hereunder unless taken on or prior to the applicable Expiration Date by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series on such record date. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to prevent the Trustee from setting a new record date for any action for which a record date has previously been set pursuant to this paragraph (whereupon the record date previously set shall automatically and with no action by any Person be cancelled and of no effect), and nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to render ineffective any action taken by Holders of the requisite principal amount of Outstanding Securities of the relevant series on the date such action is taken. Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Trustee, at the Company's expense, shall cause notice of such record date, the proposed action by Holders and the applicable Expiration Date to be given to the Company in writing and to each Holder of Securities of the relevant series in the manner set forth in Section 106.
provided,
With respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section, the party hereto that sets such record date may designate any day as the "Expiration Date" and from time to time may change the Expiration Date to any earlier or later day; that no such change shall be effective unless notice of the proposed new Expiration Date is given to the other party hereto in writing, and to each Holder of Securities of the relevant series in the manner set forth in Section 106, on or prior to the existing Expiration Date. If an Expiration Date is not designated with respect to any record date set pursuant to this Section, the party hereto that set such record date shall be deemed to have initially designated the 180th day after such record date as the Expiration Date with respect thereto, subject to its right to change the Expiration Date as provided in this paragraph.
provided
Without limiting the foregoing, a Holder entitled hereunder to take any action hereunder with regard to any particular Security may do so with regard to all or any part of the principal amount of such Security or by one or more duly appointed agents each of which may do so pursuant to such appointment with regard to all or any part of such principal amount.
SECTION 105.
Notices, Etc., to Trustee and Company.
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with,
(1) the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished or filed in writing (which may be via facsimile) to or with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Trust Servicesor
,
(2) the Company by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to the Company addressed to it at the address of its principal office specified in the first paragraph of this instrument, Attention: General Counsel, or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company.
 
SECTION 106.
Notice to Holders; Waiver.
Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, where this Indenture provides for notice of any event to Holders of Securities, such notice shall be sufficiently given to Holders of Securities if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder of a Security affected by such event, at the address of such Holder as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date (if any), and not earlier than the earliest date (if any), prescribed for the giving of such notice.
In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give such notice to Holders of Securities by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder. In any case where notice to Holders of Securities is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder of a Security shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders.
Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders of Securities shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
SECTION 107.
Conflict with Trust Indenture Act.
This Indenture shall incorporate and be governed by the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are required to be part of and to govern indentures qualified under the Trust Indenture Act. If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with a provision of the Trust Indenture Act that is required under the Trust Indenture Act to be a part of and govern this Indenture, the latter provision shall control. If any provision of this Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act that may be so modified or excluded, the latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified or to be excluded, as the case may be.
SECTION 108.
Effect of Headings and Table of Contents.
The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
SECTION 109.
Successors and Assigns.
All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
SECTION 110.
Separability Clause.
In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
SECTION 111.
Benefits of Indenture.
Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder, and the Holders of Securities, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
 
SECTION 112.
Governing Law.
This Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York.
SECTION 113.
Legal Holidays.
In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, sinking fund payment date, Stated Maturity or Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of the Securities (other than a provision of any Security which specifically states that such provision shall apply in lieu of this Section)) payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any) need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or sinking fund payment date or at the Stated Maturity or Maturity, as the case may be.
SECTION 114.
Language of Notices, Etc.
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver required or permitted under this Indenture shall be in the English language, except that any published notice may be in an official language of the country of publication.
SECTION 115.
Submission to Jurisdiction.
The Company irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of any federal or state court in the City, County and State of New York and any appellate court from any thereof, in any legal suit, action or proceeding based on or arising under the Securities or this Indenture and agrees that all claims in respect of such suit or proceeding may be determined in any such court. The Company irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection to any such suit, action or proceeding in such courts, whether on the grounds of venue, residence or domicile or the defense of an inconvenient forum or objections to personal jurisdiction with respect to the maintenance of such legal suit, action or proceeding. The Company agrees that the final judgment in any such suit, action or proceeding brought in such court shall be conclusive and binding upon the Company and may be enforced in any court to the jurisdiction of which the Company is subject by a suit upon such judgment.
SECTION 201.
Forms Generally.
The Securities of each series shall be in substantially the forms set forth in Exhibits A and A1 or in such other form (including temporary or permanent global form) as shall be established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or Depositary therefor or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers executing such Securities as evidenced by their execution thereof. If the form of Securities of any series is established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company Order contemplated by Section 303 for the authentication and delivery of such Securities (or any such temporary global Security).
 
The definitive Securities shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
SECTION 202.
Form of Legend for Global Securities.
Unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for the Securities evidenced thereby, every Global Security authenticated and delivered hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form:
S G S I D . T S S , S , P D , I.
THIS
ECURITY
IS
A
LOBAL
ECURITY
WITHIN
THE
MEANING
OF
THE
NDENTURE
HEREINAFTER
REFERRED
TO
AND
IS
REGISTERED
IN
THE
NAME
OF
A
EPOSITARY
OR
A
NOMINEE
THEREOF
HIS
ECURITY
MAY
NOT
BE
EXCHANGED
IN
WHOLE
OR
IN
PART
FOR
A
ECURITY
REGISTERED
AND
NO
TRANSFER
OF
THIS
ECURITY
IN
WHOLE
OR
IN
PART
MAY
BE
REGISTERED
IN
THE
NAME
OF
ANY
ERSON
OTHER
THAN
SUCH
EPOSITARY
OR
A
NOMINEE
THEREOF
EXCEPT
IN
THE
LIMITED
CIRCUMSTANCES
DESCRIBED
IN
THE
NDENTURE
SECTION 203.
Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication.
The Trustee's certificates of authentication shall be in substantially the following form:
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
SECTION 204.
Securities in Global Form.
If Securities of or within a series are issuable in global form, as specified as contemplated by Section 301, then, notwithstanding Clause (3) of Section 301 and the provisions of Section 302, any such Security shall represent such of the Outstanding Securities of such series as shall be specified therein and may provide that it shall represent the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities represented thereby may from time to time be reduced to reflect exchanges. Any endorsement of a Security in global form to reflect the amount, or any increase or decrease in the amount, of Outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee in such manner and upon instructions given by such Person or Persons as shall be specified therein or in the Company Order to be delivered to the Trustee pursuant to Section 303 or Section 304. Subject to the provisions of Section 303 and, if applicable, Section 304, the Trustee shall deliver and redeliver any Security in permanent global form in the manner and upon instructions given by the Person or Persons specified therein or in the applicable Company Order. If a Company Order pursuant to Section 303 or Section 304 has been, or simultaneously is, delivered, any instructions by the Company with respect to endorsement or delivery or redelivery of a Security in global form shall be in writing but need not comply with Section 102 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel.
The provisions of the last sentence of Section 303 shall apply to any Security represented by a Security in global form if such Security was never issued and sold by the Company and the Company delivers to the Trustee the Security in global from together with written instructions (which need not comply with Section 102 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) with regard to the reduction in the principal amount of Securities represented thereby, together with the written statement contemplated by the last sentence of Section 303.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 201 and 307, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, payment of principal of and any premium and interest on any Security in permanent global form shall be made to the Person or Persons specified therein.
SECTION 301.
Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series.
The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution and, subject to Section 303, set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in an Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series,
(1) the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from Securities of any other series);
(2) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Section 304, 305, 306, 906 or 1107 and except for any Securities which, pursuant to Section 303, are deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder);
(3) if other than denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000
,
the denominations in which any Securities of the series shall be issuable;
(4) the date or dates upon which the principal of the Securities of the series is payable and whether the Stated Maturity may be extended or the method used to determine or extend those dates;
(5) the rate or rates at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, or the method by which such rate or rates shall be determined, whether such rate or rates may be reset, the date or dates from which any such interest shall accrue or the method used for determining those dates, the Interest Payment Dates on which any such interest shall be payable and the Regular Record Date for the interest payable on any Securities on any Interest Payment Date or method by which such date or dates shall be determined;
(6) the basis for calculating interest if other than a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months;
(7) the right, if any, to extend the interest payment periods and the duration of any such deferral period;
(8) whether the amount of payments of principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Securities of the series may be determined with reference to an index, formula or other method (which index, formula or method may be based, without limitation, on one or more currencies, commodities, equity indices or other indices), and the manner in which such amounts shall be determined;
 
(9) the place or places where, subject to the provisions of Section 1002, the principal of and any premium, if any, and interest, if any, on Securities of the series shall be payable, where any Securities of the series may be surrendered for registration of transfer, where Securities of the series may be surrendered for exchange, where Securities of the series that are convertible or exchangeable may be surrendered for conversion or exchange, as applicable, and notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of the series and this Indenture may be served;
(10) the rate or rates of amortization of Securities of the series, if any;
(11) the obligation or discretion, if any, of the Company to redeem, repay or purchase any Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of the Holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which, and the terms and conditions upon which, any Securities of the series shall be redeemed, repaid or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
(12) the terms and conditions, if any, regarding the mandatory conversion or exchange of Securities;
(13) the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which, and the terms and conditions upon which any Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company and, if other than by a Board Resolution, the manner in which any election by the Company to redeem the Securities shall be evidenced;
(14) any restriction or condition on the transferability of Securities of a particular series;
(15) if other than the entire principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of any Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502;
(16) the currency or currencies, including composite currencies or currency units, in which payment of the principal of and any premium and interest on any Securities of the series shall be payable if other than the currency of the United States of America and the manner of determining the equivalent thereof in the currency of the United States of America for purposes of the definition of "Outstanding" in Section 101;
(17) if the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of the series is to be payable, at the election of the Company or the Holder thereof, in one or more currencies or currency units other than that or those in which such Securities are stated to be payable, the currency, currencies or currency units in which the principal of or any premium or interest on such Securities as to which such election is made shall be payable, the periods within which and the terms and conditions upon which such election is to be made and the amount so payable (or the manner in which such amount shall be determined);
(18) provisions, if any, granting special rights to Holders of the Securities upon the occurrence of specified events;
 
(19) any addition to or change in the Events of Default which applies to any Securities of the series and any change in the right of the Trustee or the requisite Holders of such Securities to declare the principal amount thereof due and payable pursuant to Section 502;
(20) any addition to or change in the definitions set forth in Article I that apply to the Securities of the series, and any addition to or change in the covenants set forth in Article X which applies to Securities of the series;
(21) if applicable, that the Securities of the series, in whole or any specified part, shall be defeasible pursuant to Section 1302 or Section 1303 or both such Sections, any variations of such Sections and, if other than by a Board Resolution, the manner in which any election by the Company to defease such Securities shall be evidenced;
(22) the terms, if any, upon which Holders may convert or exchange the Securities into or for the Company's common stock, preferred stock or other securities or property;
(23) whether any Securities of the series are to be issuable initially in temporary global form and whether any Securities of the series are to be issuable in permanent global form and, if so, whether beneficial owners of interests in any such permanent global Security may exchange such interests for Securities of such series and of like tenor of any authorized form and denomination and the circumstances under which any such exchanges may occur, if other than in the manner provided in Section 305;
(24) if applicable, that any Securities of the series shall be issuable in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities and, in such case, the respective Depositaries for such Global Securities, the form of any legend or legends which shall be borne by any such Global Security in addition to or in lieu of that set forth in Section 202 and any circumstances in addition to or in lieu of those set forth in the fourth paragraph of Section 305 in which any such Global Security may be exchanged in whole or in part for Securities registered, and any transfer of such Global Security in whole or in part may be registered, in the name or names of Persons other than the Depositary for such Global Security or a nominee thereof;
(25) the appointment of any paying agents, authenticating agents, transfer agents, registrars or other agents, if other than the Trustee;
(26) the Person to whom any interest on any Security of the series shall be payable, if other than the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, and the extent to which, or the manner in which, any interest payable on a temporary global Security on an Interest Payment Date will be paid, if other than in the manner provided in Section 304;
(27) if the principal amount payable at the Stated Maturity of any Securities of the series will not be determinable as of any one or more dates prior to the Stated Maturity, the amount which shall be deemed to be the principal amount of such Securities as of any such date for any purpose thereunder or hereunder, including the principal amount thereof which shall be due and payable upon any Maturity other than the Stated Maturity or which shall be deemed to be Outstanding as of any date prior to the Stated Maturity (or, in any such case, the manner in which such amount deemed to be the principal amount shall be determined);
 
(28) whether, under what circumstances and the Currency in which the Company will pay additional amounts as contemplated by Section 1009 on the Securities of the series to any Holder who is not a United States Person(s) (including any modification to the definition of such term) in respect of any tax, assessment or governmental charge and, if so, whether the Company will have the option to redeem such Securities rather than pay such additional amounts (and the terms of any such option); and
(29) any other terms of the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, except as permitted by Section 901(5)).
All Securities of such series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to the Board Resolution referred to above and (subject to Section 303) set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in the Officers' Certificate referred to above or in any such indenture supplemental hereto.
If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate setting forth the terms of the series.
SECTION 302.
Denominations.
Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to the Securities of any series, any Securities of such series, other than Securities issued in global form (which may be of any denomination), shall be issuable in denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000.
SECTION 303.
Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating.
The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chief Executive Officer, its President, its Chief Financial Officer, its Treasurer or one of its Vice Presidents, under its corporate seal reproduced thereon attested by its Secretary or one of its Assistant Secretaries. The signature of any of these officers on the Securities may be manual or facsimile.
Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of such Securities.
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee in accordance with the Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities. If the forms or terms of the Securities of the series have been established by or pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions as permitted by Sections 201 and 301, in authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 601) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating:
(1) if the forms of such Securities have been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 201, that such form have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
(2) if the terms of such Securities have been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 301, that such terms have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture; and
 
(3) that such Securities, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles.
If such form or terms have been so established, the Trustee shall not be required to authenticate such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner that is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 301 and of the two preceding paragraphs, if all Securities of a series are not to be originally issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Officers' Certificate otherwise required pursuant to Section 301 or the Company Order and Opinion of Counsel otherwise required pursuant to such preceding paragraphs at or prior to the authentication of each Security of such series if such documents are delivered at or prior to the authentication upon original issuance of the first Security of such series to be issued.
Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee by manual signature, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 309, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
SECTION 304.
Temporary Securities.
Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
If temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities of that series to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities of that series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment for that series, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor one or more definitive Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and like aggregate principal amount and tenor.
Until exchanged in full as hereinafter provided, the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of the same series and of like tenor authenticated and delivered hereunder.
 
SECTION 305.
Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange.
The Company shall cause to be kept at an office or agency to be maintained by the Company in accordance with Section 1002 a register (being the combined register of the Security Registrar and all transfer agents designated pursuant to Section 1002 for the purpose of registration of transfer of Securities and sometimes collectively referred to as the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Securities and the registration of transfers of Securities. The Trustee is hereby appointed "Security Registrar" for the purpose of registering Securities and transfers of Securities as herein provided.
Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security of a series at the office or agency of the Company maintained pursuant to Section 1002 for such purpose in a Place of Payment for that series, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of like tenor and aggregate principal amount.
At the option of the Holder, Securities of any series may be exchanged for other Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of like tenor and aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities that the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange shall (if so required by the Company or the Trustee or any transfer agent) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar or any transfer agent duly executed, by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 304, 906 or 1107 not involving any transfer.
If the Securities of any series (or of any series and specified tenor) are to be redeemed in part, the Company shall not be required (A) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Securities of that series (or of that series and specified tenor, as the case may be) during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before any selection of Securities of that series to be redeemed and ending at the close of business on the day of the mailing of the relevant notice of redemption or (B) to register the transfer of or exchange any Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part.
SECTION 306.
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities.
If any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of the previous two paragraphs, in case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security.
Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
Every new Security of any series issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that series duly issued hereunder.
The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
SECTION 307.
Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved.
Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to any series of Securities, interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest.
Any interest on any Security of any series which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "Defaulted Interest") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in Clause (1) or (2) below:
(1) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security of such series and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this Clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be given to each Holder of Securities of such series in the manner set forth in Section 106, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following Clause (2).
 
(2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Securities of any series in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this Clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section and Section 305, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
SECTION 308.
Persons Deemed Owners.
Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and any premium and (subject to Section 305 and Section 307) any interest on such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
SECTION 309.
Cancellation.
All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange or for credit against any sinking fund payment shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and shall be promptly cancelled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and may deliver to the Trustee (or to any other Person for delivery to the Trustee) for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated hereunder which the Company has not issued and sold, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All cancelled Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed of as directed by a Company Order.
SECTION 310.
Computation of Interest.
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
SECTION 311.
CUSIP Numbers
The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use such "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will notify the Trustee of any change "CUSIP" numbers.
provided
 
SECTION 401.
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture.
This Indenture shall upon Company Request cease to be of further effect (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of Securities herein expressly provided for, and any right to receive additional amounts, as provided in Section 1009), and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, when
(1) either
(A) all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than (i) Securities which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 306 and (ii) Securities for the payment of which money has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 1003) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
(B) all such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation:
(i) have become due and payable, or
(ii) will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year, or
(iii) are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company,
and the Company, in the case of Section 401(1)(B)(i), (ii) or (iii) above, has deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for the purpose money in an amount sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for principal and any premium and interest to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable) or to the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be;
(2) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company; and
(3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been complied with.
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 607, the obligations of the Trustee to any Authenticating Agent under Section 614 and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (B) of Clause (1) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 402 and the last paragraph of Section 1003 shall survive such satisfaction and discharge.
 
SECTION 402.
Application of Trust Money.
Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 401 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal and any premium and interest for the payment of which such money has been deposited with the Trustee.
SECTION 501.
Events of Default.
"Event of Default", wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
(1) default in the payment of any interest upon any Security of that series when it becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
(2) default in the payment of the principal of or any premium on any Security of that series at its Maturity and (if so established as contemplated by Section 301 in respect of that series), in the case of technical or administrative difficulties only if such default persists for a period of five days; or
(3) default in the deposit of any sinking fund payment, when and as due by the terms of a Security of that series, in the case of technical or administrative difficulties only if such a default persists for a period of five days; or
(4) default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or warranty of the Company in this Indenture (other than a covenant or warranty a default in whose performance or whose breach is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with or which has expressly been included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of series of Securities other than that series), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 90 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or
(5) the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company as bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company under any applicable Federal or State law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or
 
(6) the commencement by the Company of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, of the consent by it to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable Federal or State law, or the consent by it to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Company in furtherance of any such action; or
(7) any other Event of Default provided with respect to Securities of that series.
SECTION 502.
Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment.
If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 501(5) or 501(6)) with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series may declare the principal amount of all the Securities of that series (or, if any Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount of such Securities as may be specified by the terms thereof) to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount) shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default specified in Section 501(5) or 501(6) with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs, the principal amount of all the Securities of that series (or, if any Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount of such Securities as may be specified by the terms thereof) shall automatically, and without any declaration or other action on the part of the Trustee or any Holder, become immediately due and payable.
At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to Securities of any series has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if
(1) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay
(A) all overdue interest on all Securities of that series,
(B) the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any Securities of that series which have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and any interest thereon at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities,
(C) to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest upon overdue interest at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and
 
(D) all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel;
and
(2) all Events of Default with respect to Securities of that series, other than the non-payment of the principal of Securities of that series which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 513.
No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
SECTION 503.
Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee.
The Company covenants that if:
(1) default is made in the payment of any interest on any Security when such interest becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days, or
(2) default is made in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security at the Maturity thereof, in the case of technical or administrative difficulties only if such a default persists for a period of five days,
the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, the whole amount then due and payable on such Securities for principal and any premium and interest and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, interest on any overdue principal and premium and on any overdue interest, at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances, of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
If the Company fails to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, may institute a judicial proceeding for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, may prosecute such proceeding to judgment or final decree and may enforce the same against the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities and collect the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities, wherever situated.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem reasonably necessary to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
SECTION 504.
Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
In case of any judicial proceeding relative to the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities), its property or its creditors, the Trustee shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise, to take any and all actions authorized under the Trust Indenture Act in order to have claims of the Holders and the Trustee allowed in any such proceeding. In particular, the Trustee shall be authorized to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 607.
 
No provision of this Indenture shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding; , , that the Trustee may, on behalf of the Holders, vote for the election of a trustee in bankruptcy or similar official and be a member of a creditors' or other similar committee.
provided
however
SECTION 505.
Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities.
All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
SECTION 506.
Application of Money Collected.
Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal or any premium or interest, upon presentation of the Securities and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under Section 607;
SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid for principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal and any premium and interest, respectively; and
THIRD: To the payment of the remainder, if any, to the Company or any other Person or Persons entitled thereto.
SECTION 507.
Limitation on Suits.
No Holder of any Security of any series shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless
(1) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of that series;
(2) the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;
 
(3) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee reasonable indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;
(4) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
(5) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series;
it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other of such Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other of such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all of such Holders.
SECTION 508.
Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of and any premium and (subject to Sections 305 and 307) interest on such Security on the respective Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
SECTION 509.
Restoration of Rights and Remedies.
If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
SECTION 510.
Rights and Remedies Cumulative.
Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities in the last paragraph of Section 306, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
SECTION 511.
Delay or Omission Not Waiver.
No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Securities to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
 
SECTION 512.
Control by Holders.
The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Securities of such series, that:
provided
(1) such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture, and
(2) the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction.
SECTION 513.
Waiver of Past Defaults.
The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series waive any past default hereunder with respect to such series and its consequences, except a default:
(1) in the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of such series, or
(2) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article IX cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series affected.
Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
SECTION 514.
Undertaking for Costs.
In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, a court may require any party litigant in such suit to file an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and may assess costs including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses against any such party litigant, in the manner and to the extent provided in the Trust Indenture Act; that neither this Section nor the Trust Indenture Act shall be deemed to authorize any court to require such an undertaking or to make such an assessment in any suit instituted by the Company.
provided
SECTION 515.
Waiver of Usury, Stay or Extension Laws.
The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any usury, stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
 
SECTION 601.
Certain Duties and Responsibilities.
The duties and responsibilities of the Trustee shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it. Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section.
SECTION 602.
Notice of Defaults.
If a default occurs hereunder with respect to Securities of any series, the Trustee shall give the Holders of Securities of such series notice of such default as and to the extent provided by the Trust Indenture Act; , , that in the case of any default of the character specified in Section 501(4) with respect to Securities of such series, no such notice to Holders shall be given until at least 30 days after the occurrence thereof. For the purpose of this Section, the term "default" means any event which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series.
provided
however
SECTION 603.
Certain Rights of Trustee.
Subject to the provisions of Section 601:
(1) the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document (whether in its original or facsimile form) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
(2) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order, and any resolution of the Board of Directors shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;
(3) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, rely upon an Officers' Certificate;
(4) the Trustee may consult with counsel of its own selection and the written advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;
(5) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
 
(6) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney;
(7) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder;
(8) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered, or omitted to be taken by it in good faith and reasonably believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture;
(9) the Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Event of Default or any event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture; and
(10) the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and the Person employed to act hereunder.
SECTION 604.
Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities.
The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent assumes any responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities. Neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent shall be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
SECTION 605.
May Hold Securities.
The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and, subject to Sections 608 and 613, may otherwise deal with the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent.
SECTION 606.
Money Held in Trust.
Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed with the Company.
 
SECTION 607.
Compensation and Reimbursement.
The Company agrees:
(1) to pay to the Trustee from time to time reasonable compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
(2) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as shall be determined to have been caused by its own negligence or bad faith; and
(3) to indemnify the Trustee for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense incurred without negligence or bad faith on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the trust or trusts hereunder, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder.
SECTION 608.
Conflicting Interests.
If the Trustee has or shall acquire a conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall either eliminate such interest or resign, to the extent and in the manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, the Trust Indenture Act and this Indenture. To the extent permitted by such Act, the Trustee shall not be deemed to have a conflicting interest by virtue of being a trustee under this Indenture with respect to Securities of more than one series.
SECTION 609.
Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility.
There shall at all times be one (and only one) Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of each series, which may be Trustee hereunder for Securities of one or more other series. Each Trustee shall be a Person that is eligible pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act to act as such and has a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 and is subject to supervision or examination by federal, state or District of Columbia authority and is not otherwise ineligible under Section 310(a)(5) of the Trust Indenture Act. If any such Person publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of its supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section and to the extent permitted by the Trust Indenture Act, the combined capital and surplus of such Person shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article.
SECTION 610.
Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor.
No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 611.
The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by giving written notice thereof to the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by Section 611 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
 
The Trustee may be removed at any time with respect to the Securities of any series by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company.
If at any time:
(1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with Section 608 after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, or
(2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 609 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Holder, or
(3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation,
then, in any such case, (A) the Company by a Board Resolution may remove the Trustee with respect to all Securities, or (B) subject to Section 514, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to all Securities and the appointment of a successor Trustee or Trustees.
If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Company, by a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Trustee may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series) and shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 611. If, within one year after such resignation, removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall be appointed by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 611, become the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and to that extent supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Company. If no successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall have been so appointed by the Company or the Holders of Securities of such series and accepted appointment in the manner required by Section 611, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series and each appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series to all Holders of Securities of such series in the manner provided in Section 106. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.
SECTION 611.
Acceptance of Appointment by Successor.
In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, every such successor Trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such
 
appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on the request of the Company or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder. The successor Trustee shall mail notice of its succession to the Holders.
In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates.
Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in the first or second preceding paragraph, as the case may be.
No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article.
SECTION 612.
Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business.
Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided such corporation shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities.
SECTION 613.
Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company.
If and when the Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities), the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of Section 311 of the Trust Indenture Act, but only to the extent therein specified, regarding the collection of claims against the Company (or any such other obligor). For purposes of Section 311(b)(4) and (6) of such Act, the following terms shall mean:
(a) "cash transaction" means any transaction in which full payment for goods or securities sold is made within seven days after delivery of the goods or securities in currency or in checks or other orders drawn upon banks or bankers and payable upon demand; and
 
(b) "self-liquidating paper" means any draft, bill of exchange, acceptance or obligation which is made, drawn, negotiated or incurred by the Company for the purpose of financing the purchase, processing, manufacturing, shipment, storage or sale of goods, wares or merchandise and which is secured by documents evidencing title to, possession of, or a lien upon, the goods, wares or merchandise or the receivables or proceeds arising from the sale of the goods, wares or merchandise previously constituting the security, provided the security is received by the Trustee simultaneously with the creation of the creditor relationship with the Company arising from the making, drawing, negotiating or incurring of the draft, bill of exchange, acceptance or obligation.
SECTION 614.
Appointment of Authenticating Agent.
The Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents with respect to one or more series of Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series issued upon original issue and upon exchange, registration of transfer or partial redemption thereof or pursuant to Section 306, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Any such appointment shall be evidenced by an instrument in writing signed by a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, and a copy of such evidence shall be promptly furnished to the Company. Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority. If such Authenticating Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section.
Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.
An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall give notice of such appointment in the manner provided in Section 106 to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section.
 
The Trustee agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for its services under this Section, and the Trustee shall be entitled to be reimbursed for such payments, subject to the provisions of Section 607.
If an appointment with respect to one or more series is made pursuant to this Section, the Securities of such series may have endorsed thereon, in addition to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternative certificate of authentication in the following form:
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
If all of the Securities of a series may not be originally issued at one time, and if the Trustee does not have an office capable of authenticating Securities upon original issuance located in a Place of Payment where the Company wishes to have Securities of such series authenticated upon original issuance, the Trustee, if so requested by the Company in writing (which writing need not comply with Section 102 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel), shall appoint in accordance with this Section an Authenticating Agent having an office in a Place of Payment designated by the Company with respect to such series of Securities.
SECTION 701.
Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Holders.
The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee:
(1) semi-annually, not later than 15 days after each Regular Record Date or, in the case of any series of Securities on which semi-annual interest is not payable, not more than 15 days after such semi-annual dates specified by the Trustee, a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities of each series as of the Regular Record Date or such semi-annual date, as the case may be, and
(2) at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished;
from any such list names and addresses received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar.
excluding
 
SECTION 702.
Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders.
The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as provided in Section 701 and the names and addresses of Holders received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar. The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 701 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
The rights of Holders to communicate with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities, and the corresponding rights and privileges of the Trustee, shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act.
Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of any disclosure of information as to names and addresses of Holders made pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act.
SECTION 703.
Reports by Trustee.
The Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the Trustee and its actions under this Indenture as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto.
A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange upon which any Securities are listed, with the Commission and with the Company. The Company will notify the Trustee when any Securities are listed on any stock exchange or delisted therefrom.
SECTION 704.
Reports by Company.
The Company shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, and transmit to Holders, such information, documents and other reports, and such summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act; provided that any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act shall be filed with the Trustee within 15 days after the same is so required to be filed with the Commission.
SECTION 801.
Company May Merge, Etc., Only on Certain Terms.
The Company shall not merge with or into or consolidate with any other Person or sell, assign, transfer, lease or convey all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person (other than a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company), and the Company shall not permit any Person (other than a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company) to merge with or into or consolidate with the Company or sell, assign, transfer, lease or convey all or substantially all of its properties and assets to the Company, unless:
(1) the Company is the surviving corporation or, in case the Company shall merge into or consolidate with another Person or sell, assign, transfer, lease or convey all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person, the Person into which the Company is merged or formed by such consolidation or the Person which acquires by sale, assignment, transfer or conveyance, or which leases, all or substantially all of its properties and assets of the Company shall be a corporation, partnership or trust, organized and validly existing under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the
 
District of Columbia and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of and any premium and interest (including all additional amounts, if any payable pursuant to Section 1009) on all the Securities and the performance or observance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed;
(2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction and treating any indebtedness which becomes an obligation of the Company or any Subsidiary as a result of such transaction as having been incurred by the Company or such Subsidiary at the time of such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have happened and be continuing; and
(3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture comply with this Article and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
SECTION 802.
Successor Substituted.
Upon any merger of the Company into, or consolidation of the Company with, any other Person or any sale, assignment, transfer, lease or conveyance of all or substantially all of the properties and assets of the Company in accordance with Section 801, the successor Person into which the Company is merged or formed by such consolidation or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, lease or conveyance is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the predecessor Person shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities.
SECTION 901.
Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders.
Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
(1) to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company herein and in the Securities; or
(2) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; or
(3) to add any additional Events of Default for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such additional Events of Default are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such additional Events of Default are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series); or
 
(4) to add to, change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture in respect of one or more series of Securities, provided that any such addition, change or elimination (A) shall neither (i) apply to any Security of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture and entitled to the benefit of such provision nor (ii) modify the rights of the Holder of any such Security with respect to such provision or (B) shall become effective only when there is no such Security Outstanding; or
(5) to secure the Securities; or
(6) to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by Sections 201 and 301; or
(7) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of Section 611; or
(8) to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision herein, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture, provided that such action pursuant to this Clause (8) shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series in any material respect; or
(9) to supplement any provisions of this Indenture necessary to defease and discharge the Securities of any series, that such action does not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of the Securities in any material respect; or
provided
(10) to comply with the rules or regulations of any securities exchange or automated quotation system on which any Securities are listed or traded; or
(11) to add, change or eliminate any provisions of this Indenture in accordance with any amendments to the Trust Indenture Act, that such action does not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of the Securities in any material respect.
provided
SECTION 902.
Supplemental Indentures With Consent of Holders.
With the consent of the Holders of not less than 50% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series under this Indenture; , , that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby:
provided
however
(1) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or any installment of principal of or interest on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the rate of interest thereon or any premium payable upon the redemption thereof, or change any obligation of the Company to pay additional amounts pursuant to Section 1009 (except as contemplated by Section 801(1) and permitted by Section 901(1)), or reduce the amount of the principal of an Original Issue Discount Security or any other Security
 
which would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502, or change any Place of Payment where, or the coin or currency in which, any Security or any premium or interest thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date), or
(2) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver (of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences) provided for in this Indenture, or
(3) make any change that adversely affects the right to convert or exchange any Security or decreases the conversion or exchange rate or increases the conversion price of any convertible or exchangeable Security, or
(4) modify any of the provisions of this Section, Section 513 or Section 1008, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby; , , that this Clause shall not be deemed to require the consent of any Holder with respect to changes in the references to "the Trustee" and concomitant changes in this Section and Section 1008, or the deletion of this proviso, in accordance with the requirements of Sections 611 and 901(7).
provided
however
A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders of Securities under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
SECTION 903.
Execution of Supplemental Indentures.
In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 601) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
SECTION 904.
Effect of Supplemental Indentures.
Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
SECTION 905.
Conformity with Trust Indenture Act.
Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act.
 
SECTION 906.
Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures.
Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.
SECTION 1001.
Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest.
The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of Holders of each series of Securities that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities of that series in accordance with the terms of the Securities and this Indenture.
SECTION 1002.
Maintenance of Office or Agency.
The Company will maintain in each Place of Payment for any series of Securities an office or agency where Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of any such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency in respect of any series of Securities or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations and surrenders of Securities of that series may be made and notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the same as its agent to receive such respective presentations, surrenders, notices and demands. The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; , , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in each Place of Payment for Securities of any series for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
provided
however
SECTION 1003.
Money for Securities Payments to Be Held in Trust.
If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of or any premium or interest on any of the Securities of that series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal and any premium or interest so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities, it will, on or prior to each due date of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of that series, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay the principal and any premium or interest so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal, premium or interest, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
 
The Company will cause each Paying Agent for any series of Securities other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will (1) comply with the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act applicable to it as a Paying Agent and (2) during the continuance of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities of that series) in the making of any payment in respect of the Securities of that series, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums held in trust by such Paying Agent for payment in respect of the Securities of that series.
The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of any series and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal and any premium or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; , , that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in an Authorized Newspaper in each Place of Payment, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.
provided
however
SECTION 1004.
Statement by Officers as to Default.
The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof, an Officers' Certificate, stating whether or not to the best knowledge of the signers thereof the Company is in default in the performance and observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided hereunder) and, if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge.
SECTION 1005.
Existence.
Subject to Article VIII, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; , , that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if the Board of Directors shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and that the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to the ability of the Company to make payments hereunder.
provided
however
 
SECTION 1006.
Maintenance of Properties.
The Company will cause all properties used or useful in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary to be maintained and kept in good condition, repair and working order and supplied with all necessary equipment and will cause to be made all necessary repairs, renewals, replacements, betterments and improvements thereof, all as in the judgment of the Company may be necessary so that the business carried on in connection therewith may be properly and advantageously conducted at all times; , , that nothing in this Section shall prevent the Company from discontinuing the operation or maintenance of any of such properties if such discontinuance is, in the judgment of the Company, desirable in the conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary and not disadvantageous in any material respect to the ability of the Company to make payments hereunder.
provided
however
SECTION 1007.
Payment of Taxes and Other Claims.
The Company will pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged, before the same shall become delinquent, (1) all taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon the Company or any Subsidiary or upon the income, profits or property of the Company or any Subsidiary, and (2) all lawful claims for labor, materials and supplies which, if unpaid, might by law become a lien upon the property of the Company or any Subsidiary; , , that the Company shall not be required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any such tax, assessment, charge or claim whose amount, applicability or validity is being contested in good faith.
provided
however
SECTION 1008.
Waiver of Certain Covenants.
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of such series, the Company may, with respect to the Securities of any series, omit in any particular instance to comply with any term, provision or condition set forth in any covenant provided pursuant to Section 301(12), 901(2) or 901(7) for the benefit of the Holders of such series if before the time for such compliance the Holders of at least 50% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall, by Act of such Holders, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such term, provision or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such term, provision or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such term, provision or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
SECTION 1009.
Additional Amounts
If the Securities of a series provide for the payment of additional amounts, the Company will pay to the Holder of any Security of such series additional amounts as provided therein. Whenever in this Indenture there is mentioned, in any context, the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on, or in respect of, any Security of any series or the net proceeds received on the sale or exchange of any Security of any series, such mention shall be deemed to include mention of the payment of additional amounts provided for in this Section to the extent that, in such context, additional amounts are, were or would be payable in respect thereof pursuant to the provisions of this Section and express mention of the payment of additional amounts (if applicable) in any provisions hereof shall not be construed as excluding additional amounts in those provisions hereof where such express mention is not made.
 
SECTION 1101.
Applicability of Article.
Securities of any series which are redeemable before their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with their terms and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for such Securities) in accordance with this Article.
SECTION 1102.
Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee.
The election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced by a Board Resolution or in another manner specified as contemplated by Section 301 for such Securities. In case of any redemption at the election of the Company of less than all the Securities of any series (including any such redemption affecting only a single Security), the Company shall, at least 60 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date, of the principal amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed and, if applicable, of the tenor of the Securities to be redeemed (unless all of the Securities of a specified tenor are to be redeemed). In the case of any redemption of Securities (i) prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, or (ii) pursuant to an election of the Company which is subject to a condition specified in the terms of such Securities, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction or condition.
SECTION 1103.
Selection by Trustee of Securities to Be Redeemed.
If less than all the Securities of any series are to be redeemed (unless all the Securities of such series and of a specified tenor are to be redeemed or unless such redemption affects only a single Security), the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series not previously called for redemption, by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and which may provide for the selection for redemption of portions (equal to the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series or any integral multiple thereof) of the principal amount of Securities of such series of a denomination larger than the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series or of the principal amount of global securities of such series. If less than all of the Securities of such series and of a specified tenor are to be redeemed, the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series and specified tenor not previously called for redemption in accordance with the preceding sentence. If so specified in the Securities of a series, partial redemptions must be in an amount not less than $1,000,000 principal amount of Securities.
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Securities selected for redemption as aforesaid and, in case of any Securities selected for partial redemption as aforesaid, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
The provisions of the two preceding paragraphs shall not apply with respect to any redemption affecting only a single Security, whether such Security is to be redeemed in whole or in part. In the case of any such redemption in part, the unredeemed portion of the principal amount of the Security shall be in an authorized denomination (which shall not be less than the minimum authorized denomination) for such Security.
For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Securities redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Securities which has been or is to be redeemed.
 
SECTION 1104.
Notice of Redemption.
Notice of redemption shall be given in the manner provided in Section 106 to the Holders of Securities to be redeemed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date.
All notices of redemption shall state:
(1) the Redemption Date,
(2) the Redemption Price,
(3) if less than all the Outstanding Securities of any series consisting of more than a single Security are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption of any such Securities, the principal amounts) of the particular Securities to be redeemed and, if less than all the Outstanding Securities of any series consisting of a single Security are to be redeemed, the principal amount of the particular Security to be redeemed,
(4) that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price will become due and payable upon each such Security to be redeemed and, if applicable, that interest thereon will cease to accrue on and after said date,
(5) the place or places where such Securities are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price,
(6) that the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the case, and
(7) applicable CUSIP numbers, if any.
A notice of redemption published as contemplated by Section 106 need not identify particular Registered Securities to be redeemed.
Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company.
SECTION 1105.
Deposit of Redemption Price.
Prior to any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) an amount of money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, and (except if the Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest on, all the Securities which are to be redeemed on that date.
SECTION 1106.
Securities Payable on Redemption Date.
Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified, and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest) such Securities shall cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest to the Redemption Date; , , that, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, installments of interest on Securities whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 307.
provided
however
 
If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal and any premium shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate prescribed therefor in the Security.
SECTION 1107.
Securities Redeemed in Part.
Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at a Place of Payment therefor (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities of the same series and of like tenor, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered.
SECTION 1201.
Applicability of Article.
The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of any series except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for such Securities.
The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of any Securities is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment", and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of such Securities is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment". If provided for by the terms of any Securities, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 1202. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities as provided for by the terms of such Securities.
SECTION 1202.
Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities.
The Company (1) may deliver Outstanding Securities of a series (other than any previously called for redemption) and (2) may apply as a credit Securities of a series which have been redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to any Securities of such series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities as and to the extent provided for by the terms of such Securities; provided that the Securities to be so credited have not been previously so credited. The Securities to be so credited shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the Redemption Price, as specified in the Securities so to be redeemed, for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly.
SECTION 1203.
Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund.
Not less than 45 days prior (unless a shorter period shall be satisfactory to the Trustee) to each sinking fund payment date for any Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for such Securities pursuant to the terms of such Securities, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting Securities pursuant to Section 1202 and will also deliver to the Trustee any Securities to be so delivered. Not less than 30 days prior to each such sinking
 
fund payment date, the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 1103 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 1104. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Sections 1106 and 1107.
SECTION 1301.
Company's Option to Effect Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
The Company may at its option, at any time, elect to have either Section 1302 or Section 1303 applied to the Outstanding Securities of any series upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Article XIII.
SECTION 1302.
Defeasance and Discharge.
Upon the Company's exercise of the option provided in Section 1301 applicable to this Section, the Company shall be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to the Outstanding Securities of any series on the date the conditions set forth in Section 1304 are satisfied (hereinafter, "defeasance"). For this purpose, such defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by the Outstanding Securities of such series and to have satisfied all its other obligations under the Securities of such series and this Indenture insofar as the Securities of such series are concerned (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (A) the rights of Holders of the Securities of such series to receive, solely from the trust fund described in Section 1304 and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities of such series when such payments are due, (B) the Company's obligations with respect to such Securities under Sections 305, 306, 1002 and 1003, (C) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and (D) this Article XIII. Subject to compliance with this Article XIII, the Company may exercise its option under this Section 1302 notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under Section 1303.
SECTION 1303.
Covenant Defeasance.
Upon the Company's exercise of the option provided in Section 1301 applicable to this Section, (i) the Company shall be released from its obligations with respect to the Securities of such Series under Section 801, Sections 1004 through 1009, inclusive, and any covenants provided pursuant to Section 301(12), 901(2) or 901(7) for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities and (ii) the occurrence of an event specified in Sections 501(4), (5), (6) or (7) shall not be deemed to be an Event of Default on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 1304 are satisfied (hereinafter, "covenant defeasance"). For this purpose, such covenant defeasance means that the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such Section or Clause whether directly or indirectly by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such Section or Clause or by reason of any reference in any such Section or Clause to any other provision herein or in any other document, but the remainder of this Indenture and such Securities shall be unaffected thereby.
SECTION 1304.
Conditions to Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
The following shall be the conditions to application of either Section 1302 or Section 1303 to the then Outstanding Securities of any series:
(1) The Company shall irrevocably have deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee satisfying the requirements of Section 609 who shall agree to comply with the provisions of this Article XIII applicable to it) as trust funds
 
in trust for the purpose of making the following payments specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series, (A) money in an amount, or (B) Government Obligations which through the scheduled payment of principal and interest in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than one day before the due date of any payment, money in an amount, or (C) a combination thereof, sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee) to pay and discharge, the principal of premium, if any, and each installment of interest on the Securities on the Stated Maturity of such principal or installment of interest in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and of the Securities of such series. For this purpose, "Government Obligations" means, with respect to any series of Securities, securities that are (x) direct obligations of the government that issued the currency in which such series is denominated (or, if such series is denominated in euro, the direct obligations of any government that is a member of the European Monetary Union) for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (y) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of such government the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by such government, which, in either case, are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof and shall also include a depositary receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act) as custodian with respect to any Government Obligation where the relevant government is the United States of America or a specific payment of principal of or interest on any such Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of such depositary receipt, that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depositary receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the such Government Obligation or the specific payment of principal of or interest on such Government Obligation evidenced by such depositary receipt.
,
provided
(2) In the event of an election to have Section 1302 apply to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that (x) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling, or (y) since the date of this Indenture there has been a change in the applicable Federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such opinion shall confirm that, the Holders of the Outstanding Securities of such series will not recognize gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of such deposit, defeasance and discharge and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amount, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such deposit, defeasance and discharge had not occurred.
(3) In the event of an election to have Section 1303 apply to any Securities or any series of Securities, as the case may be, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Holders of the Outstanding Securities of such series will not recognize gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of such deposit and covenant defeasance and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amount, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such deposit and covenant defeasance had not occurred.
(4) No Event of Default or event which with notice or lapse of time or both would become an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of such series shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit or, insofar as subsections 501(5) and (6) are concerned, at any time during the period ending on the 90th day after the date of such deposit (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed satisfied until the expiration of such period).
 
(5) Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not cause the Trustee to have a conflicting interest as defined in Section 608 and for purposes of the Trust Indenture Act with respect to any securities of the Company.
(6) Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound.
(7) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee and Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for relating to either the defeasance under Section 1302 or the covenant defeasance under Section 1303 (as the case may be) have been complied with.
(8) Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not result in the trust arising from such deposit constituting an investment company as defined in the Investment Company Act, or such trust shall be qualified under such act or exempt from regulation thereunder.
SECTION 1305.
Deposited Money and Government Obligations to be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions.
Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money and Government Obligations (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee (solely for purposes of this Section and Section 1306, the Trustee and any such other trustee are referred to collectively, for purposes of this Section 1305, as the "Trustee") pursuant to Section 1304 in respect of the Securities of such series shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities of such series and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of the Securities of such series, of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal (and premium, if any) and interest, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 1304 or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of the Outstanding Securities.
Anything in this Article XIII to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request any money or Government Obligations held by it as provided in Section 1304 which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent defeasance or covenant defeasance.
SECTION 1306.
Reinstatement.
If the Trustee or the Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with Section 1302 or 1303 by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Indenture and the Securities of such series shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to this Article XIII until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 1302 or 1303; , , that if the Company makes any payment of principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any Security following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of the Securities of such series to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or the Paying Agent.
provided
however
 
 
This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
Stryker Corporation, a Michigan corporation (herein called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to                      , or registered assigns, the principal sum of                      Dollars on                      [ , and to pay interest thereon from                      or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on                      and                      in each year, commencing                     , at the rate of             % per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment [ , provided that any principal and premium, and any such installment of interest, which is overdue shall bear interest at the rate of             % per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), from the dates such amounts are due until they are paid or made available for payment, and such interest shall be payable on demand]. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the                      or                      (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture].
if the Security is to bear interest prior to Maturity, insert
if applicable, insert
 The principal of this Security shall not bear interest except in the case of a default in payment of principal upon acceleration, upon redemption or at Stated Maturity and in such case the overdue principal and any overdue premium shall bear interest at the rate of             % per annum (to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), from the dates such amounts are due until they are paid or made available for payment. Interest on any overdue principal or premium shall be payable on demand.
[If the Security is not to bear interest prior to Maturity, insert
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in                     , in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by (i) check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register or (ii) wire transfer in immediately available funds to the place and account designated in writing by the Person entitled to such payment as specified in the Security Register.
provided
however
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereof has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated:
 
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of                      (herein called the "Indenture", which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, a nationally chartered banking association, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. [This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereoflimited in aggregate principal amount to $            .]
,
[ The Securities of this series are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 days' notice by mail,  (1) on                      in any year commencing with the year                      and ending with the year                      through operation of the sinking fund for this series at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount, and (2)] at any time [ (1) on or after                     ], as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at the following Redemption Prices (expressed as percentages of the principal amount): If redeemed on or before                     ,             %, and if redeemed] during the 12-month period beginning                      of the years indicated,
If applicable, insert
[if applicable, insert
if applicable, insert
[if applicable, insert 
 
and thereafter at a Redemption Price equal to             % of the principal amount, together in the case of any such redemption (whether through operation of the sinking fund or otherwise)] with accrued interest to the Redemption Date, but interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to such Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates referred to on the face hereof, all as provided in the Indenture.]
[if applicable, insert 
 The Securities of this series are subject to redemption upon not less than 30 days' notice by mail, (1) on                      in any year commencing with the year                      and ending with the year                      through operation of the sinking fund for this series at the Redemption Prices for redemption through operation of the sinking fund (expressed as percentages of the principal amount) set forth in the table below, and (2) at any time on or after                     ], as a whole or in part, at the election of the Company, at the Redemption Prices for redemption otherwise than through operation of the sinking fund (expressed as percentages of the principal amount) set forth in the table below: If redeemed during the 12-month period beginning                      of the years indicated,
[If applicable, insert
[if applicable, insert 
 
and thereafter at a Redemption Price equal to             % of the principal amount, together in the case of any such redemption (whether through operation of the sinking fund or otherwise) with accrued interest to the Redemption Date, but interest installments whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to such Redemption Date will be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates referred to on the face hereof, all as provided in the Indenture.]
 Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may not, prior to                      redeem any Securities of this series as contemplated by [ Clause (2) of] the preceding paragraph as a part of, or in anticipation of, any refunding operation by the application, directly or indirectly, of moneys borrowed having an interest cost to the Company (calculated in accordance with generally accepted financial practice) of less than             % per annum.]
[If applicable, insert
if applicable, insert
The sinking fund for this series provides for the redemption on                      in each year beginning with the year                      and ending with the year                      of  not less than $             ("mandatory sinking fund") and not more than] $             aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series. Securities of this series acquired or redeemed by the Company otherwise than through mandatory] sinking fund payments may be credited against subsequent mandatory] sinking fund payments otherwise required to be made  , in the inverse order in which they become due].]
[If applicable, insert 
[if applicable, insert
[if applicable, insert 
[if applicable, insert 
[if applicable, insert
In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.]
[If the Security is subject to redemption of any kind, insert 
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of [the entire indebtedness of this Security] [or] [certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security] [, in each case] upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.]
[If applicable, insert 
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.]
[If the Security is not an Original Issue Discount Security, insert 
Security If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, an amount of principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. Such amount shall be equal to Upon payment (i) of the amount of principal so declared due and payable and (ii) of interest on any overdue principal, premium and interest (in each case to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), all of the Company's obligations in respect of the payment of the principal of and premium and interest, if any, on the Securities of this series shall terminate.]
[If the
is an Original Issue Discount Security, insert
insert formula for determining the amount.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless
 
such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities of this series at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee reasonable indemnity, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Securities of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt- of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $              and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 

Exhibit 4.2
Execution Version
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of January 15, 2010 (this "First Supplemental Indenture") between Stryker Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Michigan (herein called the "Company"), having its principal office at 2825 Airview Boulevard, Kalamazoo, Michigan, and U.S. Bank National Association, a nationally chartered banking association, as trustee (herein called the "Trustee").
WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee have heretofore executed and delivered an Indenture, dated as of January 15, 2010 (the "Base Indenture" and, together with this First Supplemental Indenture, the "Indenture"), providing for the issuance from time to time of the Company's debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein and therein called the "Securities"), to be issued in one or more series as provided in the Base Indenture;
WHEREAS, Section 901 of the Base Indenture permits the Company and the Trustee to enter into a supplemental indenture to the Base Indenture to establish the form and terms of any series of Securities;
WHEREAS, Section 201 of the Base Indenture permits the form of Securities of any series to be established in a supplemental indenture to the Base Indenture;
WHEREAS, Section 301 of the Base Indenture permits certain terms of any series of Securities to be established pursuant to a supplemental indenture to the Base Indenture;
WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 201 and 301 of the Base Indenture, the Company desires to provide for the establishment of a new series of Securities in an aggregate principal amount of $500,000,000 to be designated the "3.000% Notes due 2015" (hereinafter called the "Notes") under the Base Indenture, the form and substance of such Notes and the terms, provisions and conditions thereof to be set forth as provided in the Base Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture; and
WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this First Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done;
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the foregoing and the purchase of the Notes established by this First Supplemental Indenture by the holders thereof (the "Holders"), it is mutually agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all such Holders, as follows:
SECTION 1.01 This First Supplemental Indenture constitutes a part of the Base Indenture (the provisions of which, as modified by this First Supplemental Indenture, shall apply to the Notes) in respect of the Notes but shall not modify, amend or otherwise affect the Base Indenture insofar as it relates to any other series of Securities or modify, amend or otherwise affect in any manner the terms and conditions of the Securities of any other series.
Relation to Base Indenture
.
SECTION 1.02 . For all purposes of this First Supplemental Indenture, the capitalized terms used herein (i) which are defined in this Section 1.02 have the respective meanings assigned hereto in this Section 1.02 and (ii) which are defined in the Base Indenture (and which are not defined in this Section 1.02) have the respective meanings assigned thereto in the Base Indenture. For all purposes of this First Supplemental Indenture:
Definitions
(a) Unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to an Article or Section refers to an Article or Section, as the case may be, of this First Supplemental Indenture;
(b) The words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and words of similar import refer to this First Supplemental Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision;
(c) Headings are for convenience or reference only and do not affect interpretations; and
(d) The terms defined in this Section 1.02(d) have the meanings assigned to them in this Section and include the plural as well as the singular:
"Applicable Procedures" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.07(a).
"Attributable Debt" in respect of a Sale and Leaseback Transaction means, at the time of determination, the present value (discounted at the imputed rate of interest of such transaction as determined in good faith by the Company) of the obligation of the lessee for net rental payments during the remaining term of the lease included in such Sale and Leaseback Transaction (including any period for which such lease has been extended or may, at the option of the lessor, be extended). The term "net rental payments" under any lease for any period means the sum of the rental and other payments required to be paid in such period by the lessee thereunder, not including any amounts required to be paid by such lessee (whether or not designated as rental or additional rent) on account of maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, water rates or similar charges required to be paid by such lessee thereunder or any amount required to be paid by lessee thereunder contingent upon the amount of maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, water rates or similar charges. In the case of any lease which is terminable by the lessee upon the payment of a penalty, such net amount shall be the lesser of (x) the net amount determined assuming termination upon the first date such lease may be terminated (in which case the net amount shall also include the amount of the penalty, but shall not include any rent that would be required to be paid under such lease subsequent to the first date upon which it may be so terminated) or (y) the net amount determined assuming no such termination.
"Base Indenture" has the meaning given to such term in the recitals hereof.
"Below Investment Grade Rating Event" means the Notes are rated below Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies on any date during the period commencing upon the first public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or the Company's intention to effect a Change of Control and ending 60 days following public notice of the occurrence of the related Change of Control (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies); that a Below Investment Grade Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Repurchase Event hereunder) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at its request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Rating Event).
provided
"Business Day" means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which the Trustee or banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or required by law or regulation to close.
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following:
(1) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company's assets and those of the Company's Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company or one of the Company's Subsidiaries;
 
(2) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution;
(3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors; or
(4) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company or one or more of its Subsidiaries, becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the then outstanding number of shares of the Company's Voting Stock.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction shall not be considered to be a Change of Control if (a) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (b)(i) immediately following that transaction, the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of the holding company are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (ii) immediately following that transaction, no person is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company.
"Change of Control Repurchase Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
"Company" has the meaning given to such term in the preamble hereof.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by a Reference Treasury Dealer as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term (as measured from the date of redemption) of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, (2) if the Company can only obtain less than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations or (3) if the Company can only obtain one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation, such quotation.
"Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" means the total amounts of assets (less depreciation and valuation reserves and other reserves and items deductible from gross book value of specific asset accounts under generally accepted accounting principles) which under generally accepted accounting principles would be included on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its consolidated Restricted Subsidiaries after deducting (1) all current liabilities, excluding current liabilities that could be classified as long-term debt under generally accepted accounting principles and current liabilities that are by their terms extendable or renewable at the obligor's option to a time more than 12 months after the time as of which the amount of current liabilities is being computed; (2) Investments in Unrestricted Subsidiaries; and (3) all trade names, trademarks, licenses, patents, copyrights and goodwill, organizational and development costs, deferred charges, other than prepaid items such as insurance, taxes, interest, commissions, rents and similar items and tangible assets being amortized, and amortized debt discount and expense, less unamortized premium.
"Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of the issuance of the Notes; or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director).
 
"Definitive Notes" means certificated Notes registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 2.02 hereof, substantially in the form of hereto, except that such Security shall not bear the Global Note Legend.
Exhibit A
"Depositary" means, with respect to Global Notes issued under this First Supplemental Indenture, DTC.
"Dollar" and "$" means the lawful currency of the United States of America.
"DTC" means The Depository Trust Company, its nominees and their successors and assigns.
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
"Exempted Debt" means the sum of the following items outstanding as of the date Exempted Debt is being determined (1) Indebtedness of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries secured by a Mortgage and not permitted to exist under the Indenture and (2) Attributable Debt of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of all Sale and Leaseback Transactions not permitted under the Indenture.
"Funded Debt" means Indebtedness that matures more than one year from the date of creation, or that is extendable or renewable at the sole option of the obligor so that it may become payable more than one year from such date. Funded Debt does not include (1) obligations created pursuant to leases, (2) any Indebtedness or portion thereof maturing by its terms within one year from the time of any computation of the amount of outstanding Funded Debt unless such Indebtedness shall be extendable or renewable at the sole option of the obligor in such manner that it may become payable more than one year from such time, or (3) any Indebtedness for the payment or redemption of which money in the necessary amount shall have been deposited in trust either at or before the maturity date thereof.
"Global Note" means a single permanent fully-registered global note in book-entry form, without coupons, substantially in the form of attached hereto.
Exhibit A
"Global Note Legend" means the legend set forth in Section 202 of the Base Indenture.
"Holders" has the meaning given to such term in the recitals hereof.
"Indebtedness" means any and all of the obligations of a Person for money borrowed which in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles would be reflected on the balance sheet of such Person as a liability as of the date of which the Indebtedness is to be determined.
"Indenture" has the meaning given to such term in the recitals hereof.
"Indirect Participant" means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Note through a Participant.
"Interest Payment Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03(c).
"Investment" means any investment in stock, evidences of Indebtedness, loans or advances, however made or acquired, but does not include the Company's account receivable or the accounts receivable of any Restricted Subsidiary arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, or any evidences of Indebtedness, loans or advance made in connection with the sale to any Subsidiary of the Company's accounts receivable or the accounts receivable of any Restricted Subsidiary arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business.
"Investment Grade" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moody's) and a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of S&P) or the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional Rating Agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
 
"Maturity Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03(b) hereof.
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
"Mortgage" means any mortgage, security interest, pledge, lien or other encumbrance.
"Notes" has the meaning given to such term in the recitals hereof.
"Participant" means, with respect to the Depositary, a Person who has an account with the Depositary.
"Permitted Mortgage" means (a) any purchase money mortgage on such Principal Property prior to, simultaneously with or within 180 days after the later of (1) the acquisition or completion of construction or completion of substantial reconstruction, renovation, remodeling, expansion or improvement of such Principal Property or (2) the placing in operation of such property after the acquisition or completion of any such construction or substantial reconstruction, renovation, remodeling, expansion or improvement; (b) Mortgages on a Principal Property existing at the time of acquisition, including acquisition through merger or consolidation; (c) Mortgages existing on the date of the Indenture, Mortgages on assets of a corporation or other business entity existing on the date it becomes a Restricted Subsidiary or is merged or consolidated with the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary or at the time the corporation or other business entity sells, leases or otherwise disposes of its property as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary or Mortgages on the assets of a Subsidiary that is newly designated as a Restricted Subsidiary if the Mortgage would have been permitted under the provisions of this paragraph if such Mortgage was created while the Subsidiary was a Restricted Subsidiary; (d) Mortgages in favor of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary; (e) Mortgages for taxes, assessments or governmental charges or levies which are not delinquent or which are being contested in good faith; (f) carriers', warehousemen's, materialmen's, repairmen's, mechanic's, landlords' and other similar Mortgages arising in ordinary course of business which are not delinquent or remain payable without penalty or which are being contested in good faith; (g) Mortgages (other than any Mortgage imposed by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974) consisting of pledges or deposits required in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation; (h) easements, rights-of-way, restrictions, encroachments, imperfections and other similar encumbrances affecting real property which, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount, and which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the Principal Property subject thereto or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the Company and its Subsidiaries' business, taken as a whole; (i) Mortgages arising by reason of deposits with, or the giving of any form of security to, any governmental agency or any body created or approved by law or governmental regulation, including any zoning or similar law or right reserved to or vested in any governmental office or agency to control or regulate the use of any real property; (j) Mortgages arising from filing Uniform Commercial Code financing statements relating solely to leases; and (k) Mortgages to secure Indebtedness incurred to extend, renew, refinance or replace Indebtedness secured by any Mortgages referred to above, provided that the principal amount of the extended, renewed, refinanced or replaced Indebtedness does not exceed the principal amount of Indebtedness so extended, renewed, refinanced or replaced, transaction costs and fees, and that any such Mortgage applies only to the same property or assets subject to the prior permitted Mortgage (and, in the case of real property, improvements).
plus
"Primary Treasury Dealer" means a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New York City.
"Principal Property" means all real property and improvements thereon owned by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, including, without limitation, any manufacturing, warehouse, distribution or research facility, and improvements therein, having a net book value in excess of 2% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets that is located within the United States, excluding its territories and possessions and Puerto Rico. This term does not include any real property and improvements thereon that the Company's Board of Directors declares by resolution not to be of material importance to the total business conducted by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
 
"Rating Agency" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if any of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both of them, as the case may be.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means (1) each of Banc of America Securities LLC, Barclays Capital Inc. and a Primary Treasury Dealer selected by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and their respective successors or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (2) any other Primary Treasury Dealer(s) selected by the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Company by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
"Regular Record Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03(c).
"Redemption Date" means the Business Day on which Notes are redeemed by the Company pursuant to Section 3.01 hereof
"Redemption Price" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.01(a).
"Registered Securities" means any Securities which are registered in the Security Register.
"Restricted Subsidiary" means a Subsidiary that owns a Principal Property.
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and its successors.
"Sale and Leaseback Transaction" means an arrangement with any Person providing for the leasing by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of any Principal Property owned or acquired thereafter that has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary to such Person with the intention of taking back a lease of such property.
"Securities" has the meaning given to such term in the recitals hereof.
"Senior Funded Debt" means all Funded Debt (except Funded Debt, the payment of which is subordinated to the payment of the Notes).
"Subsidiary" means a corporation, partnership or other legal entity of which, in the case of a corporation, more than 50% of the outstanding voting stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or by one or more other Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more other Subsidiaries or, in the case of any partnership or other legal entity, more than 50% of the ordinary capital interests is, at the time, directly or indirectly owned or controlled by the Company or by one or more other Subsidiaries. For the purposes of this definition, "voting stock" means the equity interest that ordinarily has voting power for the election of directors, managers or trustees of an entity, or persons performing similar functions, whether at all times or only so long as no senior class of equity interest has such voting power by reason of any contingency.
 
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
"Trustee" has the meaning given to such term in the preamble hereof.
"Unrestricted Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary other than a Restricted Subsidiary.
"Voting Stock" of any specified Person as of any date means the capital stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such Person.
SECTION 2.01 . In accordance with Section 301 of the Base Indenture, the Company hereby creates the Notes as a separate series of its securities issued pursuant to the Indenture. The Notes shall be issued initially in an aggregate principal amount of $500,000,000, except as permitted by Sections 304, 305 or 306 of the Base Indenture.
Creation of the Notes
SECTION 2.02 . The Notes shall each be issued in the form of a Global Note, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee, which shall be deposited with the Trustee as custodian for DTC and registered in the name of "Cede & Co.," as the nominee of DTC. The Notes shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto (including the Global Note Legend thereon). Notes issued in definitive certificated form in accordance with the terms of the Base Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture, if any, shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto (but without the Global Note Legend thereon). So long as DTC, or its nominee, is the registered owner of a Global Note, DTC or its nominee, as the case may be, shall be considered the sole owner or Holder of the Notes represented by such Global Note for all purposes under the Indenture. Ownership of beneficial interests in such Global Note shall be shown on, and transfers thereof shall be effected only through, records maintained by DTC (with respect to beneficial interests of participants) or by participants or Persons that hold interests through participants (with respect to beneficial interests of beneficial owners). In addition, the following provisions of clauses (1), (2), and (3) below shall apply only to Global Notes:
Form of the Notes
(1) Notwithstanding any other provision in the Indenture, no Global Note may be exchanged in whole or in part for Securities registered, and no transfer of a Global Note in whole or in part may be registered, in the name of any Person other than the Depositary for such Global Note or a nominee thereof unless (A) such Depositary has notified the Company that it is unwilling or unable or no longer permitted under applicable law to continue as Depositary for such Global Note and the Company has not appointed a successor Depositary within 90 days of receipt of such notice or has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, (B) there shall have occurred and be continuing an Event of Default with respect to such Global Note or (C) the Company (subject to the procedures of the Depositary) so directs the Trustee by Company Order. Beneficial interests in Global Notes may be exchanged for Definitive Notes of the same series upon request but only upon at least 30 days' prior written notice given to the Trustee by or on behalf of the Depository in accordance with customary procedures.
(2) Subject to clause (1) above, any exchange of a Global Note for other Securities may be made in whole or in part, and all Securities issued in exchange for a Global Note or any portion thereof shall be registered in such names as the Depositary for such Global Note shall direct.
(3) Every Security authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for or in lieu of, a Global Note or any portion thereof, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Note, unless such note is registered in the name of a Person other than the Depositary for such Global Note or a nominee thereof.
 
SECTION 2.03 . The Notes shall be governed by all the terms and conditions of the Base Indenture, as supplemented by this First Supplemental Indenture. In particular, the following provisions shall be terms of the Notes:
Terms and Conditions of the Notes
(a) . The title of the Notes shall be as specified in the Recitals of the Company; and the aggregate principal amount of the Notes shall be as specified in Section 2.01 of this Article II, except as permitted by Sections 304, 305 or 306 of the Base Indenture.
Title and Aggregate Principal Amount
(b) . The Notes shall mature, and the unpaid principal thereon shall be payable, on January 15, 2015 (the "Maturity Date"), subject to the provisions of the Base Indenture and Articles III and IV below.
Stated Maturity
(c) . The rate per annum at which interest shall be payable on the Notes shall be 3.000%. Interest on the Notes shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each January 15 and July 15, commencing on July 15, 2010 (each, an "Interest Payment Date"), to the Persons in whose names the applicable Notes are registered in the Security Register applicable to the Notes at the close of business on the immediately preceding January 1 or July 1, respectively, prior to the applicable Interest Payment Date regardless of whether such day is a Business Day (each, a "Regular Record Date"). Interest on the Notes shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. Interest on the Notes shall accrue from and including January 15, 2010. If an Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment shall be made on the next Business Day as if it were made on the date the payment was due, and no interest shall accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after that Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be, to the date the payment is made. Interest payments shall include accrued interest from and including the date of issue or from and including the last date in respect to which interest has been paid, as the case may be, to, but excluding, the Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be.
Interest
(d) . The Notes shall be issuable as Registered Securities as provided in Section 2.02 of this Article II. The Notes shall be issued and may be transferred only in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 above that amount. All payments of principal, Redemption Price and accrued unpaid interest in respect of the Notes shall be made by the Company in immediately available funds.
Registration and Form
(e) . The provisions for defeasance in Section 1302 of the Base Indenture, and the provisions for covenant defeasance in Section 1303 of the Base Indenture, shall be applicable to the Notes.
Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance
(f) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in the Base Indenture, the Company may, from time to time, without the consent of or notice to the Holders, create and issue further securities having the same ranking and terms and conditions as the Notes in all respects, except for issue date, the public offering price and, in some cases, the first Interest Payment Date. Additional Notes issued in this manner shall be consolidated with and shall form a single series with the previously outstanding Notes. Notice of any such issuance shall be given to the Trustee and a new supplemental indenture shall be executed in connection with the issuance of such additional Notes.
Further Issues
(g) . The Notes shall have such other terms and conditions as provided in the form thereof attached as Exhibit A.
Other Terms and Conditions
SECTION 2.04 . The Notes shall be general unsecured obligations of the Company. The Notes shall rank in right of payment with all unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness, including, without limitation, any unsecured senior indebtedness, of the Company and senior in right of payment to all subordinated indebtedness of the Company.
Ranking
pari passu
SECTION 2.05 . The Notes shall not be entitled to any sinking fund.
Sinking Fund
 
SECTION 2.06 . The Place of Payment in respect of the Notes will be at the office or agency of the Company in The City of New York, State of New York or at the office or agency of the Paying Agent in The City of New York, State of New York.
Place of Payment
SECTION 2.07 .
Transfer and Exchange
(a) The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Notes shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of the Base Indenture, this First Supplemental Indenture and the then applicable procedures of the Depositary (the "Applicable Procedures"). In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Trustee either (A)(1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given in accordance with the Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase or, if Definitive Notes are at such time permitted to be issued pursuant to this First Supplemental Indenture and the Base Indenture, (B)(1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to cause to be issued a Definitive Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given by the Depositary to the Security Registrar containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Definitive Note shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (1) above. Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Notes contained in the Base Indenture, this First Supplemental Indenture and the Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Security Registrar shall adjust the principal amount of the relevant Global Notes pursuant to Section 2.08 hereof.
(b) Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Notes and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 2.07(b), the Security Registrar shall register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Notes. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder shall present or surrender to the Trustee the Definitive Notes duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Security Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing. The Trustee shall cancel any such Definitive Notes so surrendered, and the Company shall execute and, upon receipt of a Company Order pursuant to Section 303 of the Base Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a new Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued pursuant to this Section 2.07(b) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the Holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Security Registrar through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such Definitive Notes are so registered. In addition, the requesting Holder shall provide any additional certifications, documents and information, as applicable, required pursuant to Section 305 of the Base Indenture.
SECTION 2.08 . At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Note have been exchanged for Definitive Notes or a particular Global Note has been redeemed, repurchased or cancelled in whole and not in part, each such Global Note shall be returned to or retained and cancelled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 309 of the Base Indenture. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Note is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note or for Definitive Notes, the principal amount of Securities represented by such Global Note shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note, such other Global Note shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Note by the Security Registrar or by the Depositary at the direction of the Security Registrar to reflect such increase.
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Notes
 
SECTION 3.01 .
Optional Redemption by Company
(a) The Company shall have the right to redeem the Notes at any time in whole or from time to time in part at a redemption price (the "Redemption Price") equal to the greater of:
(i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; and
(ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption), discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate, ten (10) basis points;
plus
, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the date of redemption.
plus
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) above, installments of interest on the Notes that are due and payable on any Interest Payment Date falling on or prior to a Redemption Date shall be payable on such Interest Payment Date to the registered Holders as of the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date according to the terms of the Notes and the Indenture. Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date, interest shall cease to accrue on any Notes or portions thereof that are called for redemption.
(c) Notices of redemption shall be mailed at least thirty (30) but not more than sixty (60) days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed at its registered address. The Company shall calculate the Redemption Price and shall deliver an Officers' Certificate to the Trustee setting forth the Redemption Price no later than two Business Days prior to the Redemption Date.
(d) If less than all the Notes are to be redeemed at any time, the Notes to be redeemed shall be selected by lot by DTC, in the case of Global Notes, or by the Trustee by a method the Trustee deems to be fair and appropriate, in the case of Notes that are not represented by a Global Note.
SECTION 4.01 .
Repurchase at the Option of Holders Upon Change of Control Repurchase Event
(a) If a Change of Control Repurchase Event occurs, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Notes pursuant to the Indenture, the Company shall be required to make an offer to each Holder of the Notes to repurchase all or any part (in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 above that amount) of that Holder's Notes at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes repurchased any accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase.
plus
(b) Within thirty (30) days following any Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the option of the Company, prior to any Change of Control, but after the public announcement of an impending Change of Control, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Repurchase Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the payment date specified in the notice, which date shall be no earlier than thirty (30) days and no later than sixty (60) days from the date such notice is mailed. The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on a Change of Control Repurchase Event occurring on or prior to the payment date specified in the notice.
 
(c) The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act, and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder, to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions of the Notes, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions of the Notes or the Indenture by virtue of such conflict.
(d) On the Change of Control Repurchase Event payment date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
(i) accept for payment all the Notes or portions of the Notes (in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 above that amount) properly tendered pursuant to its offer;
(ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the aggregate purchase price in respect of all the Notes or portions of the Notes properly tendered; and
(iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee for cancellation the Notes properly accepted, together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes being repurchased by the Company.
(e) The Paying Agent shall promptly mail to each Holder of Notes properly tendered the purchase price for the Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail (or, if a Global Note, to be adjusted on the Schedule of Exchanges attached thereto) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any Notes surrendered; provided, that each new Note shall be in a minimum principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 above that amount.
(f) The Company shall not be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
SECTION 5.01 .
Limitation on Liens
(a) The Company shall not, and shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, issue, assume or guarantee any Indebtedness secured by any Mortgage upon any Principal Property of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary without equally and ratably securing the Notes (and, if the Company so determines, any other Indebtedness ranking equally with the Notes) with such Indebtedness; , , that the foregoing restrictions shall not prevent the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary from issuing, assuming or guaranteeing any Indebtedness secured by a Permitted Mortgage.
provided
however
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this Section 5.01, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may, in addition to Mortgages permitted by subsection (a) of this Section 5.01 and without equally and ratably securing the Notes, create or assume and renew, extend or replace Mortgages which would otherwise be subject to such subsection (a), provided that at the time of such creation, assumption, renewal, extension or replacement, and after giving effect thereto, Exempted Debt does not exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
 
SECTION 5.02 .
Limitations on Sale and Leaseback Transactions
(a) The Company shall not, and shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction without equally and ratably securing the Notes (and, if the Company so determines, any other Indebtedness ranking equally with the Notes) unless:
(i) within 180 days after the receipt of the proceeds of such sale or transfer, the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary applies an amount equal to the greater of the net proceeds of such sale or transfer or the fair value of such Principal Property at the time of such sale or transfer to any (or a combination) of (1) the prepayment or retirement (other than any mandatory prepayment or retirement) of Senior Funded Debt of the Company or (2) the purchase, construction, development, expansion or improvement of other comparable property, subject in each case to credits for voluntary retirements of Senior Funded Debt of the Company; or
(ii) the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary would be entitled, at the effective date of such sale or transfer, to incur Indebtedness secured by a Mortgage on such Principal Property, in an amount at least equal to the Attributable Debt in respect of the Sale and Leaseback Transaction, without equally and ratably securing the Notes pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.01 above.
The foregoing restriction shall not apply to any Sale and Leaseback Transaction (w) for a term of not more than three years including renewals, (x) with respect to a Principal Property if a binding commitment is entered into with respect to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction within three years after the later of (1) January 15, 2010 or (2) the date when the applicable Principal Property was acquired, (y) with respect to a Principal Property if a binding commitment with respect thereto is entered into within 180 days after the later of the date such property was acquired and, if applicable, the date such property was first placed in operation, or (z) between the Company and any Restricted Subsidiary or between Restricted Subsidiaries.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this Section 5.02, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may, in addition to Sale and Leaseback Transactions permitted by subsection (a) of this Section 5.02 and without equally and ratably securing the Notes, enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction without any obligation to retire any Senior Funded Debt of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, provided that, at the time of entering into such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, and after giving effect thereto, Exempted Debt does not exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
SECTION 6.01 . This First Supplemental Indenture is executed and shall be construed as an indenture supplemental to the Base Indenture, and as supplemented and modified hereby, the Base Indenture is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the Base Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.
Ratification of Base Indenture
SECTION 6.02 . If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof, or with a provision of the Base Indenture, which is required to be included in this First Supplemental Indenture, or in the Base Indenture, respectively, by any of the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, such required provision shall control to the extent it is applicable.
Conflict with Trust Indenture Act
SECTION 6.03 . The Article and Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
SECTION 6.04 . All covenants and agreements in this First Supplemental Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
Successors and Assigns
 
SECTION 6.05 . In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this First Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Separability Clause
SECTION 6.06 . THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Governing Law
SECTION 6.07 . This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
Stryker Corporation, a Michigan corporation (herein called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of                      Dollars on January 15, 2015, and to pay interest thereon from January 15, 2010 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year, commencing July 15, 2010, at the rate of 3.000% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the January 1 or the July 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in The City of New York, State of New York or at the office or agency of the Paying Agent in The City of New York, State of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided, however, that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by (i) check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register or (ii) wire transfer in immediately available funds to the place and account designated in writing by the Person entitled to such payment as specified in the Security Register; and , that if this Security is a Global Note, payment may be made pursuant to the Applicable Procedures of the Depositary as permitted in the Indenture.
provided further
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereof has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of January 15, 2010 (the "Base Indenture"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 15, 2010 (the "Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, a nationally chartered banking association, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $500,000,000, that the Company may, without the consent of any Holder, at any time and from time to time increase the initial principal amount.
provided
The Securities of this series are subject to redemption as provided in Section 3.01 of the Supplemental Indenture and Article XI of the Base Indenture.
This Security will not be subject to any sinking fund.
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities of this series at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee reasonable indemnity, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Securities of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral amounts of $1,000 above that amount. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
THE SECURITIES OF THIS SERIES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 

Exhibit 4.3
Execution Version
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of January 15, 2010 (this "Second Supplemental Indenture") between Stryker Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Michigan (herein called the "Company"), having its principal office at 2825 Airview Boulevard, Kalamazoo, Michigan, and U.S. Bank National Association, a nationally chartered banking association, as trustee (herein called the "Trustee").
WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee have heretofore executed and delivered an Indenture, dated as of January 15, 2010 (the "Base Indenture" and, together with this Second Supplemental Indenture, the "Indenture"), providing for the issuance from time to time of the Company's debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein and therein called the "Securities"), to be issued in one or more series as provided in the Base Indenture;
WHEREAS, Section 901 of the Base Indenture permits the Company and the Trustee to enter into a supplemental indenture to the Base Indenture to establish the form and terms of any series of Securities;
WHEREAS, Section 201 of the Base Indenture permits the form of Securities of any series to be established in a supplemental indenture to the Base Indenture;
WHEREAS, Section 301 of the Base Indenture permits certain terms of any series of Securities to be established pursuant to a supplemental indenture to the Base Indenture;
WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 201 and 301 of the Base Indenture, the Company desires to provide for the establishment of a new series of Securities in an aggregate principal amount of $500,000,000 to be designated the "4.375% Notes due 2020" (hereinafter called the "Notes") under the Base Indenture, the form and substance of such Notes and the terms, provisions and conditions thereof to be set forth as provided in the Base Indenture and this Second Supplemental Indenture; and
WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Second Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done;
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the foregoing and the purchase of the Notes established by this Second Supplemental Indenture by the holders thereof (the "Holders"), it is mutually agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all such Holders, as follows:
SECTION 1.01 This Second Supplemental Indenture constitutes a part of the Base Indenture (the provisions of which, as modified by this Second Supplemental Indenture, shall apply to the Notes) in respect of the Notes but shall not modify, amend or otherwise affect the Base Indenture insofar as it relates to any other series of Securities or modify, amend or otherwise affect in any manner the terms and conditions of the Securities of any other series.
Relation to Base Indenture
.
SECTION 1.02 . For all purposes of this Second Supplemental Indenture, the capitalized terms used herein (i) which are defined in this Section 1.02 have the respective meanings assigned hereto in this Section 1.02 and (ii) which are defined in the Base Indenture (and which are not defined in this Section 1.02) have the respective meanings assigned thereto in the Base Indenture. For all purposes of this Second Supplemental Indenture:
Definitions
(a) Unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to an Article or Section refers to an Article or Section, as the case may be, of this Second Supplemental Indenture;
 
(b) The words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and words of similar import refer to this Second Supplemental Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision;
(c) Headings are for convenience or reference only and do not affect interpretations; and
(d) The terms defined in this Section 1.02(d) have the meanings assigned to them in this Section and include the plural as well as the singular:
"Applicable Procedures" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.07(a).
"Attributable Debt" in respect of a Sale and Leaseback Transaction means, at the time of determination, the present value (discounted at the imputed rate of interest of such transaction as determined in good faith by the Company) of the obligation of the lessee for net rental payments during the remaining term of the lease included in such Sale and Leaseback Transaction (including any period for which such lease has been extended or may, at the option of the lessor, be extended). The term "net rental payments" under any lease for any period means the sum of the rental and other payments required to be paid in such period by the lessee thereunder, not including any amounts required to be paid by such lessee (whether or not designated as rental or additional rent) on account of maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, water rates or similar charges required to be paid by such lessee thereunder or any amount required to be paid by lessee thereunder contingent upon the amount of maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, water rates or similar charges. In the case of any lease which is terminable by the lessee upon the payment of a penalty, such net amount shall be the lesser of (x) the net amount determined assuming termination upon the first date such lease may be terminated (in which case the net amount shall also include the amount of the penalty, but shall not include any rent that would be required to be paid under such lease subsequent to the first date upon which it may be so terminated) or (y) the net amount determined assuming no such termination.
"Base Indenture" has the meaning given to such term in the recitals hereof.
"Below Investment Grade Rating Event" means the Notes are rated below Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies on any date during the period commencing upon the first public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or the Company's intention to effect a Change of Control and ending 60 days following public notice of the occurrence of the related Change of Control (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies); that a Below Investment Grade Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Repurchase Event hereunder) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at its request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Rating Event).
provided
"Business Day" means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which the Trustee or banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or required by law or regulation to close.
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following:
(1) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company's assets and those of the Company's Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company or one of the Company's Subsidiaries;
 
(2) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution;
(3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors; or
(4) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company or one or more of its Subsidiaries, becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the then outstanding number of shares of the Company's Voting Stock.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction shall not be considered to be a Change of Control if (a) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (b)(i) immediately following that transaction, the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of the holding company are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (ii) immediately following that transaction, no person is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company.
"Change of Control Repurchase Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
"Company" has the meaning given to such term in the preamble hereof.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by a Reference Treasury Dealer as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term (as measured from the date of redemption) of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, (2) if the Company can only obtain less than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations or (3) if the Company can only obtain one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation, such quotation.
"Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" means the total amounts of assets (less depreciation and valuation reserves and other reserves and items deductible from gross book value of specific asset accounts under generally accepted accounting principles) which under generally accepted accounting principles would be included on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its consolidated Restricted Subsidiaries after deducting (1) all current liabilities, excluding current liabilities that could be classified as long-term debt under generally accepted accounting principles and current liabilities that are by their terms extendable or renewable at the obligor's option to a time more than 12 months after the time as of which the amount of current liabilities is being computed; (2) Investments in Unrestricted Subsidiaries; and (3) all trade names, trademarks, licenses, patents, copyrights and goodwill, organizational and development costs, deferred charges, other than prepaid items such as insurance, taxes, interest, commissions, rents and similar items and tangible assets being amortized, and amortized debt discount and expense, less unamortized premium.
"Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of the issuance of the Notes; or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director).
 
"Definitive Notes" means certificated Notes registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 2.02 hereof, substantially in the form of hereto, except that such Security shall not bear the Global Note Legend.
Exhibit A
"Depositary" means, with respect to Global Notes issued under this Second Supplemental Indenture, DTC.
"Dollar" and "$" means the lawful currency of the United States of America.
"DTC" means The Depository Trust Company, its nominees and their successors and assigns.
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
"Exempted Debt" means the sum of the following items outstanding as of the date Exempted Debt is being determined (1) Indebtedness of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries secured by a Mortgage and not permitted to exist under the Indenture and (2) Attributable Debt of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of all Sale and Leaseback Transactions not permitted under the Indenture.
"Funded Debt" means Indebtedness that matures more than one year from the date of creation, or that is extendable or renewable at the sole option of the obligor so that it may become payable more than one year from such date. Funded Debt does not include (1) obligations created pursuant to leases, (2) any Indebtedness or portion thereof maturing by its terms within one year from the time of any computation of the amount of outstanding Funded Debt unless such Indebtedness shall be extendable or renewable at the sole option of the obligor in such manner that it may become payable more than one year from such time, or (3) any Indebtedness for the payment or redemption of which money in the necessary amount shall have been deposited in trust either at or before the maturity date thereof.
"Global Note" means a single permanent fully-registered global note in book-entry form, without coupons, substantially in the form of attached hereto.
Exhibit A
"Global Note Legend" means the legend set forth in Section 202 of the Base Indenture.
"Holders" has the meaning given to such term in the recitals hereof.
"Indebtedness" means any and all of the obligations of a Person for money borrowed which in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles would be reflected on the balance sheet of such Person as a liability as of the date of which the Indebtedness is to be determined.
"Indenture" has the meaning given to such term in the recitals hereof.
"Indirect Participant" means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Note through a Participant.
"Interest Payment Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03(c).
"Investment" means any investment in stock, evidences of Indebtedness, loans or advances, however made or acquired, but does not include the Company's account receivable or the accounts receivable of any Restricted Subsidiary arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, or any evidences of Indebtedness, loans or advance made in connection with the sale to any Subsidiary of the Company's accounts receivable or the accounts receivable of any Restricted Subsidiary arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business.
 
"Investment Grade" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moody's) and a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of S&P) or the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional Rating Agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
"Maturity Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03(b) hereof.
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
"Mortgage" means any mortgage, security interest, pledge, lien or other encumbrance.
"Notes" has the meaning given to such term in the recitals hereof.
"Participant" means, with respect to the Depositary, a Person who has an account with the Depositary.
"Permitted Mortgage" means (a) any purchase money mortgage on such Principal Property prior to, simultaneously with or within 180 days after the later of (1) the acquisition or completion of construction or completion of substantial reconstruction, renovation, remodeling, expansion or improvement of such Principal Property or (2) the placing in operation of such property after the acquisition or completion of any such construction or substantial reconstruction, renovation, remodeling, expansion or improvement; (b) Mortgages on a Principal Property existing at the time of acquisition, including acquisition through merger or consolidation; (c) Mortgages existing on the date of the Indenture, Mortgages on assets of a corporation or other business entity existing on the date it becomes a Restricted Subsidiary or is merged or consolidated with the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary or at the time the corporation or other business entity sells, leases or otherwise disposes of its property as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary or Mortgages on the assets of a Subsidiary that is newly designated as a Restricted Subsidiary if the Mortgage would have been permitted under the provisions of this paragraph if such Mortgage was created while the Subsidiary was a Restricted Subsidiary; (d) Mortgages in favor of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary; (e) Mortgages for taxes, assessments or governmental charges or levies which are not delinquent or which are being contested in good faith; (f) carriers', warehousemen's, materialmen's, repairmen's, mechanic's, landlords' and other similar Mortgages arising in ordinary course of business which are not delinquent or remain payable without penalty or which are being contested in good faith; (g) Mortgages (other than any Mortgage imposed by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974) consisting of pledges or deposits required in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation; (h) easements, rights-of-way, restrictions, encroachments, imperfections and other similar encumbrances affecting real property which, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount, and which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the Principal Property subject thereto or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the Company and its Subsidiaries' business, taken as a whole; (i) Mortgages arising by reason of deposits with, or the giving of any form of security to, any governmental agency or any body created or approved by law or governmental regulation, including any zoning or similar law or right reserved to or vested in any governmental office or agency to control or regulate the use of any real property; (j) Mortgages arising from filing Uniform Commercial Code financing statements relating solely to leases; and (k) Mortgages to secure Indebtedness incurred to extend, renew, refinance or replace Indebtedness secured by any Mortgages referred to above, provided that the principal amount of the extended, renewed, refinanced or replaced Indebtedness does not exceed the principal amount of Indebtedness so extended, renewed, refinanced or replaced, transaction costs and fees, and that any such Mortgage applies only to the same property or assets subject to the prior permitted Mortgage (and, in the case of real property, improvements).
plus
"Primary Treasury Dealer" means a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New York City.
"Principal Property" means all real property and improvements thereon owned by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, including, without limitation, any manufacturing, warehouse, distribution or research facility, and improvements therein, having a net
 
book value in excess of 2% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets that is located within the United States, excluding its territories and possessions and Puerto Rico. This term does not include any real property and improvements thereon that the Company's Board of Directors declares by resolution not to be of material importance to the total business conducted by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
"Rating Agency" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if any of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both of them, as the case may be.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means (1) each of Banc of America Securities LLC, Barclays Capital Inc. and a Primary Treasury Dealer selected by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and their respective successors or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (2) any other Primary Treasury Dealer(s) selected by the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Company by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
"Regular Record Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03(c).
"Redemption Date" means the Business Day on which Notes are redeemed by the Company pursuant to Section 3.01 hereof
"Redemption Price" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.01(a).
"Registered Securities" means any Securities which are registered in the Security Register.
"Restricted Subsidiary" means a Subsidiary that owns a Principal Property.
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and its successors.
"Sale and Leaseback Transaction" means an arrangement with any Person providing for the leasing by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of any Principal Property owned or acquired thereafter that has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary to such Person with the intention of taking back a lease of such property.
"Securities" has the meaning given to such term in the recitals hereof.
"Senior Funded Debt" means all Funded Debt (except Funded Debt, the payment of which is subordinated to the payment of the Notes).
"Subsidiary" means a corporation, partnership or other legal entity of which, in the case of a corporation, more than 50% of the outstanding voting stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or by one or more other Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more other Subsidiaries or, in the case of any partnership or other legal entity, more than 50% of the ordinary capital interests is, at the time, directly or indirectly owned or controlled by the Company or by one or more other Subsidiaries. For the purposes of this definition, "voting stock" means the equity interest that ordinarily has voting power for the election of directors, managers or trustees of an entity, or persons performing similar functions, whether at all times or only so long as no senior class of equity interest has such voting power by reason of any contingency.
 
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
"Trustee" has the meaning given to such term in the preamble hereof.
"Unrestricted Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary other than a Restricted Subsidiary.
"Voting Stock" of any specified Person as of any date means the capital stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such Person.
SECTION 2.01 . In accordance with Section 301 of the Base Indenture, the Company hereby creates the Notes as a separate series of its securities issued pursuant to the Indenture. The Notes shall be issued initially in an aggregate principal amount of $500,000,000, except as permitted by Sections 304, 305 or 306 of the Base Indenture.
Creation of the Notes
SECTION 2.02 . The Notes shall each be issued in the form of a Global Note, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee, which shall be deposited with the Trustee as custodian for DTC and registered in the name of "Cede & Co.," as the nominee of DTC. The Notes shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto (including the Global Note Legend thereon). Notes issued in definitive certificated form in accordance with the terms of the Base Indenture and this Second Supplemental Indenture, if any, shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto (but without the Global Note Legend thereon). So long as DTC, or its nominee, is the registered owner of a Global Note, DTC or its nominee, as the case may be, shall be considered the sole owner or Holder of the Notes represented by such Global Note for all purposes under the Indenture. Ownership of beneficial interests in such Global Note shall be shown on, and transfers thereof shall be effected only through, records maintained by DTC (with respect to beneficial interests of participants) or by participants or Persons that hold interests through participants (with respect to beneficial interests of beneficial owners). In addition, the following provisions of clauses (1), (2), and (3) below shall apply only to Global Notes:
Form of the Notes
(1) Notwithstanding any other provision in the Indenture, no Global Note may be exchanged in whole or in part for Securities registered, and no transfer of a Global Note in whole or in part may be registered, in the name of any Person other than the Depositary for such Global Note or a nominee thereof unless (A) such Depositary has notified the Company that it is unwilling or unable or no longer permitted under applicable law to continue as Depositary for such Global Note and the Company has not appointed a successor Depositary within 90 days of receipt of such notice or has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, (B) there shall have occurred and be continuing an Event of Default with respect to such Global Note or (C) the Company (subject to the procedures of the Depositary) so directs the Trustee by Company Order. Beneficial interests in Global Notes may be exchanged for Definitive Notes of the same series upon request but only upon at least 30 days' prior written notice given to the Trustee by or on behalf of the Depository in accordance with customary procedures.
(2) Subject to clause (1) above, any exchange of a Global Note for other Securities may be made in whole or in part, and all Securities issued in exchange for a Global Note or any portion thereof shall be registered in such names as the Depositary for such Global Note shall direct.
(3) Every Security authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for or in lieu of, a Global Note or any portion thereof, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Note, unless such note is registered in the name of a Person other than the Depositary for such Global Note or a nominee thereof.
 
SECTION 2.03 . The Notes shall be governed by all the terms and conditions of the Base Indenture, as supplemented by this Second Supplemental Indenture. In particular, the following provisions shall be terms of the Notes:
Terms and Conditions of the Notes
(a) . The title of the Notes shall be as specified in the Recitals of the Company; and the aggregate principal amount of the Notes shall be as specified in Section 2.01 of this Article II, except as permitted by Sections 304, 305 or 306 of the Base Indenture.
Title and Aggregate Principal Amount
(b) . The Notes shall mature, and the unpaid principal thereon shall be payable, on January 15, 2020 (the "Maturity Date"), subject to the provisions of the Base Indenture and Articles III and IV below.
Stated Maturity
(c) . The rate per annum at which interest shall be payable on the Notes shall be 4.375%. Interest on the Notes shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each January 15 and July 15, commencing on July 15, 2010 (each, an "Interest Payment Date"), to the Persons in whose names the applicable Notes are registered in the Security Register applicable to the Notes at the close of business on the immediately preceding January 1 or July 1, respectively, prior to the applicable Interest Payment Date regardless of whether such day is a Business Day (each, a "Regular Record Date"). Interest on the Notes shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. Interest on the Notes shall accrue from and including January 15, 2010. If an Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment shall be made on the next Business Day as if it were made on the date the payment was due, and no interest shall accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after that Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be, to the date the payment is made. Interest payments shall include accrued interest from and including the date of issue or from and including the last date in respect to which interest has been paid, as the case may be, to, but excluding, the Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be.
Interest
(d) . The Notes shall be issuable as Registered Securities as provided in Section 2.02 of this Article II. The Notes shall be issued and may be transferred only in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 above that amount. All payments of principal, Redemption Price and accrued unpaid interest in respect of the Notes shall be made by the Company in immediately available funds.
Registration and Form
(e) . The provisions for defeasance in Section 1302 of the Base Indenture, and the provisions for covenant defeasance in Section 1303 of the Base Indenture, shall be applicable to the Notes.
Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance
(f) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in the Base Indenture, the Company may, from time to time, without the consent of or notice to the Holders, create and issue further securities having the same ranking and terms and conditions as the Notes in all respects, except for issue date, the public offering price and, in some cases, the first Interest Payment Date. Additional Notes issued in this manner shall be consolidated with and shall form a single series with the previously outstanding Notes. Notice of any such issuance shall be given to the Trustee and a new supplemental indenture shall be executed in connection with the issuance of such additional Notes.
Further Issues
(g) . The Notes shall have such other terms and conditions as provided in the form thereof attached as Exhibit A.
Other Terms and Conditions
SECTION 2.04 . The Notes shall be general unsecured obligations of the Company. The Notes shall rank in right of payment with all unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness, including, without limitation, any unsecured senior indebtedness, of the Company and senior in right of payment to all subordinated indebtedness of the Company.
Ranking
pari passu
 
SECTION 2.05 . The Notes shall not be entitled to any sinking fund.
Sinking Fund
SECTION 2.06 . The Place of Payment in respect of the Notes will be at the office or agency of the Company in The City of New York, State of New York or at the office or agency of the Paying Agent in The City of New York, State of New York.
Place of Payment
SECTION 2.07 .
Transfer and Exchange
(a) The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Notes shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of the Base Indenture, this Second Supplemental Indenture and the then applicable procedures of the Depositary (the "Applicable Procedures"). In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Trustee either (A)(1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given in accordance with the Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase or, if Definitive Notes are at such time permitted to be issued pursuant to this Second Supplemental Indenture and the Base Indenture, (B)(1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to cause to be issued a Definitive Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given by the Depositary to the Security Registrar containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Definitive Note shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (1) above. Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Notes contained in the Base Indenture, this Second Supplemental Indenture and the Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Security Registrar shall adjust the principal amount of the relevant Global Notes pursuant to Section 2.08 hereof.
(b) Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Notes and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 2.07(b), the Security Registrar shall register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Notes. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder shall present or surrender to the Trustee the Definitive Notes duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Security Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing. The Trustee shall cancel any such Definitive Notes so surrendered, and the Company shall execute and, upon receipt of a Company Order pursuant to Section 303 of the Base Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a new Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued pursuant to this Section 2.07(b) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the Holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Security Registrar through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such Definitive Notes are so registered. In addition, the requesting Holder shall provide any additional certifications, documents and information, as applicable, required pursuant to Section 305 of the Base Indenture.
SECTION 2.08 . At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Note have been exchanged for Definitive Notes or a particular Global Note has been redeemed, repurchased or cancelled in whole and not in part, each such Global Note shall be returned to or retained and cancelled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 309 of the Base Indenture. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Note is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note or for Definitive Notes, the principal amount of Securities represented by such Global Note shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note, such other Global Note shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Note by the Security Registrar or by the Depositary at the direction of the Security Registrar to reflect such increase.
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Notes
 
SECTION 3.01 .
Optional Redemption by Company
(a) The Company shall have the right to redeem the Notes at any time in whole or from time to time in part at a redemption price (the "Redemption Price") equal to the greater of:
(i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; and
(ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption), discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate, twelve (12) basis points;
plus
, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the date of redemption.
plus
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) above, installments of interest on the Notes that are due and payable on any Interest Payment Date falling on or prior to a Redemption Date shall be payable on such Interest Payment Date to the registered Holders as of the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date according to the terms of the Notes and the Indenture. Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date, interest shall cease to accrue on any Notes or portions thereof that are called for redemption.
(c) Notices of redemption shall be mailed at least thirty (30) but not more than sixty (60) days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed at its registered address. The Company shall calculate the Redemption Price and shall deliver an Officers' Certificate to the Trustee setting forth the Redemption Price no later than two Business Days prior to the Redemption Date.
(d) If less than all the Notes are to be redeemed at any time, the Notes to be redeemed shall be selected by lot by DTC, in the case of Global Notes, or by the Trustee by a method the Trustee deems to be fair and appropriate, in the case of Notes that are not represented by a Global Note.
SECTION 4.01 .
Repurchase at the Option of Holders Upon Change of Control Repurchase Event
(a) If a Change of Control Repurchase Event occurs, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Notes pursuant to the Indenture, the Company shall be required to make an offer to each Holder of the Notes to repurchase all or any part (in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 above that amount) of that Holder's Notes at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes repurchased any accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase.
plus
(b) Within thirty (30) days following any Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the option of the Company, prior to any Change of Control, but after the public announcement of an impending Change of Control, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Repurchase Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the payment date specified in the notice, which date shall be no earlier than thirty (30) days and no later than sixty (60) days from the date such notice is mailed. The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on a Change of Control Repurchase Event occurring on or prior to the payment date specified in the notice.
 
(c) The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act, and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder, to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions of the Notes, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions of the Notes or the Indenture by virtue of such conflict.
(d) On the Change of Control Repurchase Event payment date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
(i) accept for payment all the Notes or portions of the Notes (in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 above that amount) properly tendered pursuant to its offer;
(ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the aggregate purchase price in respect of all the Notes or portions of the Notes properly tendered; and
(iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee for cancellation the Notes properly accepted, together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes being repurchased by the Company.
(e) The Paying Agent shall promptly mail to each Holder of Notes properly tendered the purchase price for the Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail (or, if a Global Note, to be adjusted on the Schedule of Exchanges attached thereto) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any Notes surrendered; provided, that each new Note shall be in a minimum principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 above that amount.
(f) The Company shall not be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
SECTION 5.01 .
Limitation on Liens
(a) The Company shall not, and shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, issue, assume or guarantee any Indebtedness secured by any Mortgage upon any Principal Property of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary without equally and ratably securing the Notes (and, if the Company so determines, any other Indebtedness ranking equally with the Notes) with such Indebtedness; , , that the foregoing restrictions shall not prevent the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary from issuing, assuming or guaranteeing any Indebtedness secured by a Permitted Mortgage.
provided
however
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this Section 5.01, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may, in addition to Mortgages permitted by subsection (a) of this Section 5.01 and without equally and ratably securing the Notes, create or assume and renew, extend or replace Mortgages which would otherwise be subject to such subsection (a), provided that at the time of such creation, assumption, renewal, extension or replacement, and after giving effect thereto, Exempted Debt does not exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
 
SECTION 5.02 .
Limitations on Sale and Leaseback Transactions
(a) The Company shall not, and shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction without equally and ratably securing the Notes (and, if the Company so determines, any other Indebtedness ranking equally with the Notes) unless:
(i) within 180 days after the receipt of the proceeds of such sale or transfer, the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary applies an amount equal to the greater of the net proceeds of such sale or transfer or the fair value of such Principal Property at the time of such sale or transfer to any (or a combination) of (1) the prepayment or retirement (other than any mandatory prepayment or retirement) of Senior Funded Debt of the Company or (2) the purchase, construction, development, expansion or improvement of other comparable property, subject in each case to credits for voluntary retirements of Senior Funded Debt of the Company; or
(ii) the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary would be entitled, at the effective date of such sale or transfer, to incur Indebtedness secured by a Mortgage on such Principal Property, in an amount at least equal to the Attributable Debt in respect of the Sale and Leaseback Transaction, without equally and ratably securing the Notes pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.01 above.
The foregoing restriction shall not apply to any Sale and Leaseback Transaction (w) for a term of not more than three years including renewals, (x) with respect to a Principal Property if a binding commitment is entered into with respect to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction within three years after the later of (1) January 15, 2010 or (2) the date when the applicable Principal Property was acquired, (y) with respect to a Principal Property if a binding commitment with respect thereto is entered into within 180 days after the later of the date such property was acquired and, if applicable, the date such property was first placed in operation, or (z) between the Company and any Restricted Subsidiary or between Restricted Subsidiaries.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this Section 5.02, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may, in addition to Sale and Leaseback Transactions permitted by subsection (a) of this Section 5.02 and without equally and ratably securing the Notes, enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction without any obligation to retire any Senior Funded Debt of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, provided that, at the time of entering into such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, and after giving effect thereto, Exempted Debt does not exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
SECTION 6.01 . This Second Supplemental Indenture is executed and shall be construed as an indenture supplemental to the Base Indenture, and as supplemented and modified hereby, the Base Indenture is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the Base Indenture and this Second Supplemental Indenture shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.
Ratification of Base Indenture
SECTION 6.02 . If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof, or with a provision of the Base Indenture, which is required to be included in this Second Supplemental Indenture, or in the Base Indenture, respectively, by any of the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, such required provision shall control to the extent it is applicable.
Conflict with Trust Indenture Act
SECTION 6.03 . The Article and Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
SECTION 6.04 . All covenants and agreements in this Second Supplemental Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
Successors and Assigns
 
SECTION 6.05 . In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Second Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Separability Clause
SECTION 6.06 . THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Governing Law
SECTION 6.07 . This Second Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Second Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
Stryker Corporation, a Michigan corporation (herein called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of                      Dollars on January 15, 2020, and to pay interest thereon from January 15, 2010 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year, commencing July 15, 2010, at the rate of 4.375% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the January 1 or the July 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in The City of New York, State of New York or at the office or agency of the Paying Agent in The City of New York, State of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided, however, that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by (i) check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register or (ii) wire transfer in immediately available funds to the place and account designated in writing by the Person entitled to such payment as specified in the Security Register; and , that if this Security is a Global Note, payment may be made pursuant to the Applicable Procedures of the Depositary as permitted in the Indenture.
provided further
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereof has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of January 15, 2010 (the "Base Indenture"), as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of January 15, 2010 (the "Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, a nationally chartered banking association, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $500,000,000, that the Company may, without the consent of any Holder, at any time and from time to time increase the initial principal amount.
provided
The Securities of this series are subject to redemption as provided in Section 3.01 of the Supplemental Indenture and Article XI of the Base Indenture.
This Security will not be subject to any sinking fund.
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities of this series at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee reasonable indemnity, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Securities of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral amounts of $1,000 above that amount. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
THE SECURITIES OF THIS SERIES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Stryker Corporation Announces Pricing of Senior Notes
Kalamazoo, Michigan, Jan 12, 2010 /PRNewswire via COMTEX/  Stryker Corporation (NYSE: SYK) announced today that it has priced an offering to sell $500 million of senior unsecured notes due 2015 (the "2015 Notes") and $500 million of senior unsecured notes due 2020 (the "2020 Notes"). The 2015 Notes will bear interest at 3.00% per year and, unless previously redeemed, will mature on January 15, 2015. The 2020 Notes will bear interest at 4.375% per year and, unless previously redeemed, will mature on January 15, 2020.
The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the offering for working capital and other general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, stock repurchases and other business opportunities.
As previously announced, BofA Merrill Lynch, Barclays Capital and Wells Fargo Securities are acting as joint book-running managers for the offering. This offering is being made pursuant to a prospectus supplement to the Company's prospectus, dated January 12, 2010, filed as part of the Company's effective universal shelf registration statement. Copies of the preliminary prospectus supplement and accompanying prospectus relating to the notes may be obtained by contacting the joint book-running managers: Banc of America Securities, Attn: Prospectus Department, 100 West 33rd Street, 3rd Floor, New York, NY 10001, or by calling 800-294-1322 or by emailing ; Barclays Capital, c/o Broadridge Integrated Distribution Services, 1155 Long Island Avenue, Edgewood, NY 11717, or by calling 888-603-5847 or by emailing ; or Wells Fargo Securities, Attn: Syndicate Operations, 1525 West W.T. Harris Blvd. NC0675, Charlotte, NC 28262 or by calling 800-326-5897 or by emailing .
dg.prospectus_distribution@bofasecurities.com
Barclaysprospectus@broadridge.com
prospectus.specialrequests@wachovia.com
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities nor will there be any sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains information that includes or is based on forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law that are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: the Company's ability to consummate the offering of senior unsecured debt securities; weakening of general economic conditions; changes in financial markets; and other risks and uncertainties contained in the Company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
Stryker Corporation is one of the world's leading medical technology companies with the most broadly based range of products in orthopaedics and a significant presence in other medical specialties. Stryker works with respected medical professionals to help people lead more active and more satisfying lives. The Company's products include implants used in joint replacement, trauma, and spinal surgeries; surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems; endoscopic and communications systems; patient handling and emergency medical equipment; as well as other medical device products used in a variety of medical specialties. For more information about Stryker, please visit .
www.stryker.com
CONTACT    Katherine A. Owen
                           Vice President, Strategy and Investor Relations
                           269-385-2600


