FILE:SYK/SYK-8K-20110531161519.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
On May 24, 2011, Michael P. Mogul informed the Company of his intention to resign from his position as Group President, Orthopaedics and all other positions with the Company, effective June 10, 2011 in order to accept the role of Chief Executive Officer of DJO Global, Inc.
 
 
 
On May 31, 2011, Stryker Corporation announced the appointment of Kevin Lobo, Group President, Neurotechnology and Spine, to the role of Group President, Orthopaedics.  A copy of the press release announcing the appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
STRYKER CORPORATION
(Registrant)
 
 
                                                             
May 31, 2011
/s/ CURT R. HARTMAN
Date                                                                            Curt R. Hartman
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Kalamazoo, Michigan - May 31, 2011 - Stryker Corporation (NYSE:SYK) announced today the appointment of Kevin Lobo, Group President, Neurotechnology and Spine, to the role of Group President, Orthopaedics, effective June 13, 2011. This role was formerly held by Mike Mogul, who announced his intention to join DJO Global, Inc. as CEO.  Lobo will continue to report to Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Stephen P. MacMillan. 
"Kevin's global leadership skills and prior healthcare and medical device background position him well for this new role.  His extensive experience with globally diversified medical technology companies is a key skill set that we have already seen during his tenure at Stryker," said MacMillan. 
Lobo joined Stryker in April after nearly a decade at Johnson & Johnson, where he held a number of senior level leadership roles.  In his new role, he will have responsibilities for the Company's Reconstructive, Trauma, Craniomaxillofacial (CMF), Joint Preservation, Extremities and Orthobiologics business units and will be based in Mahwah, New Jersey.
Stryker is one of the world's leading medical technology companies and is dedicated to helping healthcare professionals perform their jobs more efficiently while enhancing patient care. The Company offers a diverse array of innovative medical technologies, including reconstructive, medical and surgical, and neurotechnology and spine products to help people lead more active and more satisfying lives. For more information about Stryker, please visit www.stryker.com.
Contacts
For media inquiries please contact:
Emily Peck, Kwittken & Company, 646-747-7149 or stryker@kwitco.com
 
For investor inquiries please contact:
Katherine A. Owen, Stryker Corporation, 269-385-2600 or katherine.owen@stryker.com


