FILE:SYK/SYK-8K-20110819142546.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
On August 16, 2011, Andrew G. Fox-Smith informed the Company of his intention to resign from his position as Group President, International, effective September 1, 2011 in order to pursue other career opportunities.  Mr. Fox-Smith will remain an employee of the Company in an advisory capacity until March 1, 2012, during which time he will continue to receive his current compensation and benefits, and will receive an additional payment of $350,000 in two installments during 2012.
 
On August 18, 2011, Stryker Corporation announced the appointment of Ramesh Subrahmanian to the role of Group President, International.  A copy of the press release announcing the appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
STRYKER CORPORATION
(Registrant)
 
                                                         
August 19, 2011
/s/ TONY M. MCKINNEY
Date                                                                            Tony M. McKinney
Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer

EXHIBIT 99.1  
Kalamazoo, Michigan - August 18, 2011 - Stryker Corporation (NYSE:SYK) announced today the appointment of Ramesh Subrahmanian to the role of Group President, International, effective September 1, 2011. This role was formerly held by Andrew Fox-Smith, who is leaving Stryker to pursue other career opportunities.  Subrahmanian will report to Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Stephen P. MacMillan. 
"Ramesh brings a strong global perspective to Stryker through his successful leadership roles in the U.S., Germany, India and Asia Pacific.  He is a proven healthcare leader who has demonstrated the ability to drive profitable growth and innovation, and we look forward to taking advantage of his varied experiences as we continue to grow our international businesses," said MacMillan. 
Subrahmanian joins Stryker after twenty-three years in the pharmaceutical industry where he held a number of senior level leadership roles at Merck, Sanofi-Aventis and Hoechst Marion Roussel Ltd., most recently as Senior Vice President & President, Asia Pacific for Merck & Co. Inc. In his new role, he will have responsibilities for the Company's international business units and will be based in Singapore.
Stryker is one of the world's leading medical technology companies and is dedicated to helping healthcare professionals perform their jobs more efficiently while enhancing patient care. The Company offers a diverse array of innovative medical technologies, including reconstructive, medical and surgical, and neurotechnology and spine products to help people lead more active and more satisfying lives. For more information about Stryker, please visit www.stryker.com.
 
Contacts  
For media inquiries please contact:
Emily Peck, Kwittken & Company, 646-747-7149 or stryker@kwitco.com
For investor inquiries please contact:
Katherine A. Owen, Stryker Corporation, 269-385-2600 or katherine.owen@stryker.com


