FILE:SYK/SYK-8K-20110916104557.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 16, 2011, Stryker Corporation (the "Company") completed a public offering of $750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 2.00% Notes due 2016 (the "Notes") The Notes were offered by the Company pursuant to its Automatic Shelf Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-164299) and the Prospectus included therein, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 12, 2010 and supplemented by the Prospectus Supplement dated September 13, 2011. The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the offering for working capital and other general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, stock repurchases and other business opportunities.
The Company entered into an Underwriting Agreement, dated September 13, 2011 (the "Underwriting Agreement") between the Company and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as representatives of the underwriters named therein (together, the "Underwriters"), in connection with the issuance and sale by the Company of the Notes. Pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, the Company agreed to sell the Notes to the Underwriters, and the Underwriters agreed to purchase the Notes for resale to the public. The Underwriting Agreement includes customary representations, warranties and covenants by the Company. It also provides for customary indemnification by each of the Company and the Underwriters against certain liabilities and customary contribution provisions in respect of those liabilities.
The Notes were issued under an Indenture, dated January 15, 2010 (the " Base Indenture"), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated September 16, 2011, between the Company and the Trustee (the "Supplemental Indenture," and the Base Indenture as so supplemented, the "Indenture").
The Company sold the Notes to the Underwriters at an issue price of 99.214%. The Underwriters offered the Notes to the public at a price of 99.814% of the principal amounts thereof. Interest is payable on the Notes on March 30 and September 30 of each year, commencing on March 30, 2012.
The Company may issue additional debt from time to time pursuant to the Indenture. The Indenture contains covenants that limit the Company's ability to, among other things, incur certain liens securing indebtedness, engage in certain sale and leaseback transactions, and enter into certain consolidations, mergers, conveyances, transfers or leases of all or substantially all of the Company's assets. Subject to certain limitations, in the event of the occurrence of both (1) a change of control of the Company and (2) a downgrade of the Notes below investment grade rating by both Moody's Investors Services, Inc. and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services within a specified time period, the Company will be required to make an offer to purchase the Notes at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase.
The foregoing description of the Underwriting Agreement, Base Indenture and Supplemental Indenture does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of such documents, which are filed as Exhibits 1.1, 4.1, and 4.2 hereto, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
The Underwriters and their affiliates have performed, from time to time, and may in the future perform, various investment banking, commercial lending, financial advisory and other services for the Company for which they received or will receive customary fees and expenses.
 
The information set forth in Item 1.01 above with respect to the Notes is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03, insofar as it relates to the creation of a direct financial obligation.
 
The agreements included as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K contain representations and warranties by each of the parties to the applicable agreement. These representations and warranties were made solely for the benefit of the other parties to the applicable agreement and (i) were not intended to be treated as categorical statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk to one of the parties if those statements prove to be inaccurate; (ii) may have been qualified in such agreement by disclosures that were made to the other party in connection with the negotiation of the applicable agreement; (iii) may apply contract standards of "materiality" that are different from "materiality" under the applicable securities laws; and (iv) were made only as of the date of the applicable agreement or such other date or dates as may be specified in the agreement.
The Company acknowledges that, notwithstanding the inclusion of the foregoing cautionary statements, it is responsible for considering whether additional specific disclosures of material information regarding material contractual provisions are required to make the statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K not misleading.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
EXECUTION VERSION
EXECUTION VERSION
September 13, 2011
CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.
MORGAN STANLEY & CO. LLC
WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC
As Representatives of the several Underwriters
CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.
388 Greenwich Street
New York, NY 10013
MORGAN STANLEY & CO. LLC
1585 Broadway
New York, NY 10036
WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC
One Wells Fargo Center
301 S. College Street
Charlotte, NC 28288
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Stryker Corporation, a Michigan corporation (the ""), proposes to issue and sell to the several underwriters named in Schedule A (the ""), acting severally and not jointly, the respective amounts set forth in such Schedule A of $750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 2.00% Notes due 2016 (the ""). Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC have agreed to act as representatives of the several Underwriters (in such capacity, the "") in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes.
Introductory.
Company
Underwriters
Notes
Representatives
The Notes will be issued pursuant to an indenture, dated on or about January 15, 2010 (the ""), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, a nationally chartered banking association, as trustee (the ""). Certain terms of the Notes will be established pursuant to one or more supplemental indentures to the Base Indenture (together with the Base Indenture, the ""). The Notes will be issued in book-entry form in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the ""), pursuant to a Letter of Representations, to be dated on or before the Closing Date (as defined in Section 2 below) (the ""), among the Company, the Trustee and the Depositary.
Base Indenture
Trustee
Indenture
Depositary
DTC Agreement
The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-164299), which contains a
Commission
 
base prospectus (the ""), to be used in connection with the public offering and sale of debt securities, including the Notes, and other securities of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415 under the Securities Act. Such registration statement, including the financial statements, exhibits and schedules thereto, in the form in which it became effective under the Securities Act, including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act, is called the "." The term "" shall mean the final prospectus supplement relating to the Notes, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) after the date and time that this Underwriting Agreement (this "") is executed (the "") by the parties hereto. The term "" shall mean any preliminary prospectus supplement relating to the Notes, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b). Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents that are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act prior to 1:45 p.m. Eastern Time on September 13, 2011 (the ""). All references in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, or any amendments or supplements to any of the foregoing, shall include any copy thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System ("").
Base Prospectus
Securities Act
Registration Statement
Prospectus
Agreement
Execution Time
Preliminary Prospectus
Initial Sale Time
EDGAR
All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, prior to the Initial Sale Time; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, after the Initial Sale Time.
Exchange Act
The Company hereby confirms its agreements with the Underwriters as follows:
S 1. .
ECTION
Representations and Warranties of the Company
The Company hereby represents and warrants to and agrees with each of the Underwriters as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time and as of the Closing Date (in each case, a ""), as follows:
Representation Date
a) The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the Securities Act. The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that
Compliance with Registration Requirements.
 
purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with. In addition, the Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the "").
Trust Indenture Act
At the respective times the Registration Statement and any post-effective amendments thereto became effective and at each Representation Date, the Registration Statement and any amendments thereto (i) complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act, and (ii) did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. At the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply (A) to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment or the Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any of the Underwriters through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof, or (B) to the Statement of Eligibility under the Trust Indenture Act of the Trustee.
Each Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, at the time each was filed with the Commission, complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, and the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Notes will, at the time of such delivery, be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
b) The term "" shall mean (i) the Preliminary Prospectus dated September 13, 2011, (ii) the issuer free writing prospectuses as defined in Rule 433 of the Securities Act (each, an ""), if any, identified in Annex I hereto and (iii) any other free writing prospectus that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package. As of the Initial Sale Time, the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Disclosure Package.
Disclosure Package
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
c) . The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the
Incorporated Documents
 
Prospectus (i) at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied or will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and (ii) when read together with the other information in the Disclosure Package, at the Initial Sale Time, and when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, at the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, did not or will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
d) . (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement, (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), (iii) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the Securities Act) made any offer relating to the Notes in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the Securities Act, and (iv) as of the Execution Time, the Company was and is a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, that automatically became effective not more than three years prior to the Execution Time; the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form and the Company has not otherwise ceased to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration form.
Company is a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
e) . (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement and (ii) as of the Execution Time (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (ii)), the Company was not and is not an Ineligible Issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act), without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 of the Securities Act that it is not necessary that the Company be considered an Ineligible Issuer.
Company is not an Ineligible Issuer
f) . Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering of Notes under this Agreement or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and has promptly amended or supplemented or will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict. The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
 
g) The Company has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Date and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Notes, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes other than the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus reviewed and consented to by the Representatives and included in Annex I hereto or any electronic road show or other written communications reviewed and consented to by the Representatives and listed on Annex II hereto (collectively, ""). Each such Company Additional Written Communication, when taken together with the Disclosure Package, did not, and at the Closing Date will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Company Additional Written Communication based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Distribution of Offering Material By the Company.
Company Additional Written Communication
h) There are no persons with registration or other similar rights to have any equity or debt securities registered for sale under the Registration Statement or included in the offering contemplated by this Agreement.
No Applicable Registration or Other Similar Rights.
i) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
The Underwriting Agreement.
j) . The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and, when duly executed and delivered by the Company and the Trustee, will constitute a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance or transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity).
Authorization of the Indenture
k) The Notes to be purchased by the Underwriters from the Company will be, at the Closing Date, in the form contemplated by the Indenture, have been duly authorized for issuance and sale pursuant to this Agreement and the Indenture and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed by the Company and, when authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and issued and delivered against payment of the purchase price therefor, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance or transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity), and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
Authorization of the Notes.
 
l) The Notes and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the descriptions thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Description of the Notes and the Indenture.
m) The statements in each of the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the captions "Description of the Notes," and "Description of Debt Securities," in each case insofar as such statements purport to constitute a summary of the terms of the Notes and Indenture, fairly present and summarize, in all material respects, the matters referred to therein.
Accuracy of Statements in Prospectus.
n) . Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package, subsequent to the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package, (i) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has sustained any material loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor dispute or court or governmental action, order or decree and (ii) there has been no material adverse change, or any development that could reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse change, in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, management, business, properties or results of operations, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole (any such change is called a "").
No Material Adverse Change
Material Adverse Change
o) Ernst & Young LLP, who have certified certain financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries are, to the knowledge of the Company, independent public accountants with respect to the Company as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and are an independent registered public accounting firm with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Independent Accountants.
p) The financial statements together with the related notes thereto incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries as of and at the dates indicated and the results of their operations and cash flows for the periods specified. Such financial statements comply as to form, in all material respects, with the accounting requirements of the Securities Act, and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles as applied in the United States applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as may be expressly stated in the related notes thereto. No other financial statements are required to be included in the Registration Statement. The selected financial data and the summary financial information included in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly, in all material respects, the information shown therein and have been compiled on a basis consistent with that of the audited financial statements incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Preparation of the Financial Statements.
q) The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Michigan and has the corporate power and authority to own or lease, as the case may be, and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. The Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Company.
 
good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change.
r) . (i) Howmedica Osteonics Corp., a New Jersey corporation (""), has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of New Jersey, and (ii) each other "significant subsidiary" (as such term is defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X) of the Company (together with Howmedica Osteonics, each, a "" and together, the "") has been duly incorporated or formed and is validly existing as a corporation or other business entity in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its formation or incorporation to the extent such concept is applicable in such jurisdiction. Each Significant Subsidiary has the power and authority to own or lease, as the case may be, and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. Each Significant Subsidiary is duly qualified as a foreign corporation or other business entity to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change. All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity interests of each Significant Subsidiary have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and are owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or claim. The Significant Subsidiary owns, directly or indirectly, all of the Principal Properties (as such term is defined in the Indenture).
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Significant Subsidiaries
Howmedica Osteonics
Significant Subsidiary
Significant Subsidiaries
s) The authorized, issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company is as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (other than for subsequent issuances, if any, pursuant to employee benefit plans described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or upon exercise of outstanding options or warrants described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, as the case may be).
Capitalization and Other Capital Stock Matters.
t) Neither the Company nor any of its Significant Subsidiaries is (i) in violation or in default (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would be in default) ("") under its articles of incorporation, charter or by-laws, (ii) in Default under any indenture, mortgage, loan or credit agreement, deed of trust, note, contract, franchise, lease or other agreement, obligation, condition, covenant or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject (each, an "") or (iii) in violation of any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of its or their properties, as applicable, except, with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) only, for such Defaults or violations as would not, individually or in the aggregate result in a Material Adverse Change. The Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and consummation of
Non-Contravention of Existing Instruments; No Further Authorizations or Approvals Required.
Default
Existing Instrument
 
the transactions contemplated hereby (i) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and will not result in any Default under the articles of incorporation, charter or by-laws of the Company or any subsidiary, (ii) will not conflict with or constitute a breach of, or Default or a Debt Repayment Triggering Event (as defined below) under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, or require the consent of any other party to, any Existing Instrument, and (iii) will not result in any violation of any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree applicable to the Company or any of its subsidiaries of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its properties or any of its subsidiaries or any of their properties, except with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) above, such conflicts, breaches, Defaults liens, charges, encumbrances, consents or violations that would not individually or in the aggregate result in a Material Adverse Change or adversely affect the Notes or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. No consent, approval, authorization or other order of, or registration or filing with, any court or other governmental or regulatory authority or agency having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of their properties is required for the Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, except such as have been obtained or made by the Company and are in full force and effect under the Securities Act and such as may be required by applicable state securities or blue sky laws and from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (the "") and except as would not result in a Material Adverse Change or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. As used herein, a "" means any event or condition which gives, or with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both would give, the holder of any note, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) issued by the Company, the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
FINRA
Debt Repayment Triggering Event
u) Except as disclosed in the Prospectus and the Disclosure Package, there are no legal or governmental actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the best of the Company's knowledge, threatened (i) against the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) which has as the subject thereof any officer or director of, or property owned or leased by, the Company or any of its subsidiaries or (iii) relating to the manufacture or sale of the products of the Company or its subsidiaries or to environmental or discrimination matters related to the Company or its subsidiaries, where any such action, suit or proceeding, if determined adversely, could, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
No Material Actions or Proceedings.
v) Except as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or except for such disputes or disturbances that would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change, (i) no labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists, and, (ii) the Company is not aware of any existing or imminent labor disturbance by the employees of any of its or its subsidiaries' principal suppliers, contractors or customers.
Labor Matters.
w) Except as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and as would not result in a Material Adverse Change, the Company or its
Intellectual Property Rights.
 
subsidiaries own, license, possess or have other rights to use, on reasonable terms, all patents, patent applications, trade and service marks, trade and service mark registrations, trade names, copyrights, patentable inventions, trade secrets, technology, know-how and other intellectual property (collectively, the "") necessary for the conduct of the Company's or its subsidiaries' business as now conducted or as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus to be conducted. Except as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or as would not result in a Material Adverse Change (i) no party has been granted an exclusive license to use any portion of such Intellectual Property owned by the Company; (ii) to the Company's knowledge, there is no material infringement by third parties of any of the Company's Intellectual Property owned or exclusively licensed by the Company; (iii) there is no pending or threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others challenging the Company's rights in or to any Intellectual Property; (iv) there is no pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others challenging the validity or scope of any such Intellectual Property; and (v) there is no pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by others that the Company's business as now conducted infringes or otherwise violates any patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret or other proprietary rights of others.
Intellectual Property
x) The Company and each Significant Subsidiary possess such valid and current certificates, authorizations, permits, licenses, approvals, consents and other authorizations issued by the appropriate state, federal or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct their respective businesses, except where the failure to possess such licenses, certificates, authorizations, permits, approvals, consents or other authorizations would not result in a Material Adverse Change, and neither the Company nor any Significant Subsidiary has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of, or non-compliance with, any such certificate, authorization, permit, license, approval, consent or other authorization which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would result in a Material Adverse Change.
All Necessary Permits, etc.
y) Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company and each of its subsidiaries have good and marketable title to all the properties and assets reflected as owned in the financial statements referred to in Section 1(p) above (or elsewhere in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus), in each case free and clear of any security interests, mortgages, liens, encumbrances, equities, claims and other defects, except such as would not result in a Material Adverse Change. The real property, improvements, equipment and personal property held under lease by the Company or any subsidiary are held under valid and enforceable leases, except as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or such as do not and would not result in a Material Adverse Change.
Title to Properties.
z) Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company has filed, in a timely manner, all federal, state, local and foreign tax returns that are required to be filed or has requested and received extensions thereof and has paid all taxes required to be paid by it and, if due and payable, any related or similar assessment, fine or penalty levied against it, except for any taxes, assessments, fines or penalties as may be being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings, and except in each case where a default to make such filings or payments would not result in a Material Adverse Change.
Tax Law Compliance.
 
aa) The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Notes and the application of the proceeds thereof as contemplated under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus will not be, required to register as an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Company Not an Investment Company.
bb) The Company and its subsidiaries together maintain or are entitled to the benefits of insurance covering their properties, operations, personnel and businesses as are reasonably adequate in accordance with customary industry practice to protect the Company and its subsidiaries and their businesses taken as a whole.
Insurance.
cc) The Company has not taken and will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would be reasonably expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
No Price Stabilization or Manipulation.
dd) There are no business relationships or related-party transactions involving the Company or any subsidiary or any other person required to be described in the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus that have not been described as required.
Related Party Transactions.
ee) Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, none of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is aware of or has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result, individually or in the aggregate, in a material violation by such persons of the FCPA (as defined below), including, without limitation, making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any "foreign official" (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA, and the Company, its subsidiaries and, to the knowledge of the Company, its affiliates have conducted their businesses in compliance in all material respects with the FCPA and have instituted and maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure, and which are reasonably expected to continue to ensure, continued compliance therewith.
No Unlawful Contributions or Other Payments.
"" means Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
FCPA
ff) The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance in all material respects with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all applicable jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or
No Conflict with Money Laundering Laws.
Money Laundering Laws
 
governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened.
gg) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department (""); and the Company will not, directly or indirectly, use the proceeds of the offering, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds, to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
No Conflict with OFAC Laws.
OFAC
hh) Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company and its subsidiaries (i) are in compliance with any and all applicable foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and safety, the environment or hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants (""), (ii) have received and are in compliance with all permits, licenses or other approvals required of them under applicable Environmental Laws to conduct their respective businesses and (iii) have not received notice of any actual or potential liability under any environmental law, except where such non-compliance with Environmental Laws, failure to receive required permits, licenses or other approvals, or liability would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change. Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has been named as a "potentially responsible party" under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended.
Compliance with Environmental Laws.
Environmental Laws
ii) . None of the following events has occurred or exists: (i) a failure to fulfill the obligations, if any, under the minimum funding standards of Section 302 of the United States Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (""), and the regulations and published interpretations thereunder with respect to a Plan (as defined below), determined without regard to any waiver of such obligations or extension of any amortization period; (ii) an audit or investigation by the Internal Revenue Service, the U.S. Department of Labor, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any other federal or state governmental agency or any foreign regulatory agency with respect to the employment or compensation of employees by any member of the Company that could have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company; (iii) any breach of any contractual obligation, or any violation of law or applicable qualification standards, with respect to the employment or compensation of employees by any member of the Company that could have a Material Adverse Effect. None of the following events has occurred or is reasonably likely to occur: (i) a material increase in the aggregate amount of contributions required to be made to all Plans in the current fiscal year of the Company compared to the amount of such contributions made in the Company's most recently completed fiscal year; (ii) a material increase in the Company's "accumulated post-retirement benefit obligations" (within the meaning of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 106) compared to the amount of such obligations in the Company's most recently completed fiscal year; (iii) any event or condition giving rise to a liability under Title IV of ERISA that could have a Material Adverse Effect; or (iv) the filing of a claim by one or more
ERISA Compliance
ERISA
 
employees or former employees of the Company related to their employment that could have a Material Adverse Effect. For purposes of this paragraph, the term "Plan" means a plan (within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA) subject to Title IV of ERISA with respect to which any member of the Company may have any liability.
jj) . Except for the Underwriters, there is no broker, finder or other party that is entitled to receive from the Company any brokerage or finder's fee or other fee or commission as a result of any transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Brokers
kk) . There are no outstanding loans, advances (except normal advances for business expenses in the ordinary course of business) or guarantees or indebtedness by the Company to or for the benefit of any of the officers or directors of the Company, except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
No Outstanding Loans or Other Indebtedness
ll) . There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company and any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith (the ""), including Section 402 related to loans and Sections 302 and 906 related to certifications.
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
mm) . The Company maintains "disclosure controls and procedures" (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act); such disclosure controls and procedures are effective in all material respects.
Company's Accounting System
nn) The Company and its consolidated subsidiaries maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (A) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (B) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain asset accountability; (C) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (D) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
Internal Controls and Procedures.
oo) Except as disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, since the end of the Company's most recent audited fiscal year, there has been (i) no material weakness in the Company's internal control over financial reporting (whether or not remediated) and (ii) no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
No Material Weakness in Internal Controls.
pp) . The financial data contained in the portions of the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "") that are incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement were accurate in all material respects at the time the Proxy Statement was filed with the Commission.
Definitive Proxy Statement
Proxy Statement
Any certificate signed by an officer of the Company and delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters set forth therein.
 
S 2. .
ECTION
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Notes
a) The Company agrees to issue and sell to the several Underwriters, severally and not jointly, all of the Notes upon the terms herein set forth. On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Underwriters agree, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the aggregate principal amount of Notes set forth opposite their names on Schedule A, plus any additional principal amount of Notes that such Underwriter may become obligated to purchase pursuant to the provisions of Section 10 hereof, at a purchase price of 99.2140% of the principal amount of the Notes, payable on the Closing Date. The Company will not be obligated to deliver any of the Notes except upon payment for all the Notes to be purchased as provided herein.
The Notes.
b) Delivery of certificates for the Notes in global form to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment therefor shall be made at the offices of Winston & Strawn LLP, 35 W. Wacker Dr., Chicago, Illinois 60601 (or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the Representatives) at 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on September 16, 2011 (unless postponed in accordance with the provisions of Section 10 hereof), or such other time and date as the Underwriters and the Company shall mutually agree (the time and date of such closing are called the "").
The Closing Date.
Closing Date
c) The Representatives hereby advise the Company that the Underwriters intend to offer for sale to the public, as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, their respective portions of the Notes as soon after the Execution Time as the Representatives, in their sole judgment, have determined is advisable and practicable.
Public Offering of the Notes.
d) Payment for the Notes shall be made at the Closing Date by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the order of the Company.
Payment for the Notes.
It is understood that the Representatives have been authorized, for their own accounts and for the accounts of the several Underwriters, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Notes that the Underwriters have agreed to purchase. The Representatives may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment for any Notes to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds shall not have been received by the Representatives by the Closing Date for the account of such Underwriter, but any such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from any of its obligations under this Agreement.
e) The Company shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters certificates for the Notes at the Closing Date, against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor. The certificates for the Notes shall be in such denominations and registered in such names and denominations as the Representatives shall have requested at least two full business days prior to the Closing Date and shall be made available for inspection on the business day preceding the Closing Date at a location in New York City, as the Representatives may designate. Time shall be of the essence, and delivery at the time and place specified in this Agreement is a further condition to the obligations of the Underwriters.
Delivery of the Notes.
 
S 3. .
ECTION
Covenants of the Company
The Company covenants and agrees with each Underwriter as follows:
a) The Company, subject to Section 3(b), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B of the Securities Act, and during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined below) will promptly notify the Representatives, and confirm the notice in writing, of (i) the effectiveness of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any supplement or amendment to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission, (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or for additional information, and (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Notes for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes. The Company will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424 and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424 was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file such document. The Company will use its reasonable efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment.
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests.
b) During such period beginning on the date of this Agreement and ending on the later of the Closing Date or such date as, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales of the Notes by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 of the Securities Act (the ""), the Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement (including any filing under Rule 462(b) of the Securities Act), or any amendment, supplement or revision to the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise, will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall reasonably object.
Filing of Amendments.
Prospectus Delivery Period
c) The Company has furnished or will deliver, upon request, to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, signed copies of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein) and signed copies of all consents and certificates of experts, and will also deliver to the Representatives, without charge, a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for
Delivery of Registration Statements.
 
each of the Underwriters. The Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
d) The Company will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of the Preliminary Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the Securities Act. The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, such number of copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Prospectuses.
e) . The Company will comply with the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, including, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, so as to permit, and until the completion of, the distribution of the Notes as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order that the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as the case may be, will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing at the Initial Sale Time or at the time it is delivered or conveyed to a purchaser, not misleading, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of either such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of any law, the Company will (1) notify the Representatives of any such event, development or condition and (2) promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b) hereof, such amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus comply with such law, and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as the Underwriters may reasonably request.
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
f) The Company shall cooperate with the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, as the Underwriters may reasonably request from time to time, to qualify or register the Notes for sale under (or obtain exemptions from the application of) the state securities or blue sky laws of those jurisdictions designated by the Representatives, shall comply with such laws and shall continue such qualifications, registrations and exemptions in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Notes. The Company shall not be required to qualify as a foreign corporation or to take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not presently qualified or where it would be subject to taxation as a foreign business. The Company will advise the Representatives promptly after the Company becomes aware of the suspension of the qualification or registration of (or any such
Blue Sky Compliance.
 
exemption relating to) the Notes for offering, sale or trading in any jurisdiction or any initiation or threat of any proceeding for any such purpose, and in the event of the issuance of any order suspending such qualification, registration or exemption, the Company shall use its best efforts to obtain the withdrawal thereof at the earliest possible moment.
g) The Company shall apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes sold by it in the manner described under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Use of Proceeds.
h) The Company will cooperate with the Underwriters and use its best efforts to permit the Notes to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of the Depositary.
Depositary.
i) During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company shall file, on a timely basis, with the Commission all reports and documents required to be filed under the Exchange Act.
Periodic Reporting Obligations.
j) During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives (which consent may be withheld at the sole discretion of the Representatives), directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract or grant any option to sell, pledge, transfer or establish an open "put equivalent position" within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(h) under the Exchange Act, or otherwise dispose of or transfer, or announce the offering of, or file any registration statement under the Securities Act in respect of, any debt securities of the Company similar to the Notes or securities exchangeable for or convertible into debt securities similar to the Notes (other than as contemplated by this Agreement with respect to the Notes).
Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities.
k) . The Company will prepare a final term sheet containing only a description of the Notes, in a form approved by the Representatives and attached as Exhibit D hereto, and will file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act within the time required by such rule (such term sheet, the ""). Any such Final Term Sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
Final Term Sheet
Final Term Sheet
l) . The Company represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representatives, and each Underwriter represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Company and the Representatives, it will not make, any offer relating to the Notes that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 of the Securities Act; provided that the prior written consent of the Company and the Representatives shall be deemed to have been given in respect of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in Annex I to this Agreement. Any such free writing prospectus consented to or deemed to be consented to by the Company and the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "." The Company agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) has complied and will comply,
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
 
as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 of the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission where required, legending and record keeping. The Company consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that (a) is not an "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Notes or their offering, (ii) information permitted by Rule 134 under the Securities Act or (iii) information that describes the final terms of the Notes or their offering and that is included in the Final Term Sheet of the Company contemplated in Section 3(k).
m) . If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Notes, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement of post-effective amendment to be declared effective and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness. The Company will take all other action reasonably necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Notes to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
Notice of Inability to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Statement Form
n) . The Company agrees to pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Notes within the time required by and in accordance with Rule 456(b)(1) and 457(r) of the Securities Act.
Filing Fees
o) The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to cause or result in, or that has constituted or might reasonably be expected to constitute, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
No Manipulation of Price.
The Representatives, on behalf of the several Underwriters, may, in their sole discretion, waive in writing the performance by the Company of any one or more of the foregoing covenants or extend the time for their performance.
S 4. . The Company agrees to pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder and in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including (i) all expenses incident to the issuance and delivery of the Notes to the Underwriters (including all printing and engraving costs), (ii) all necessary issue, transfer and other stamp taxes in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes to the Underwriters, (iii) all fees and expenses of the Company's counsel, independent public or certified public accountants and other advisors to the Company, (iv) all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, printing, filing, shipping and distribution of the Registration Statement (including financial statements, exhibits, schedules, consents and certificates of experts), each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and all amendments and supplements thereto, and this
ECTION
Payment of Expenses
 
Agreement, the Indenture, the DTC Agreement and the Notes, (v) all filing fees, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by the Company or the Underwriters (not to exceed $20,000 in the case of counsel for the Underwriters) in connection with qualifying or registering (or obtaining exemptions from the qualification or registration of) all or any part of the Notes for offer and sale under the state securities or blue sky laws, and, if requested by the Representatives, preparing a "Blue Sky Survey" or memorandum, and any supplements thereto, advising the Underwriters of such qualifications, registrations and exemptions, (vi) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with, the review, if any, by the FINRA of the terms of the sale of the Notes, (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Notes, (viii) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Notes with the ratings agencies, (ix) all fees and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of the Company in connection with approval of the Notes by the Depositary for "book-entry" transfer, (x) all other fees, costs and expenses referred to in Item 14 of Part II of the Registration Statement, and (xi) all other fees, costs and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section. Except as provided in this Section 4 and Sections 6, 8 and 9 hereof, the Underwriters shall pay their own costs and expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
S 5. . The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Notes as provided herein on the Closing Date shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company set forth in Section 1 hereof as of each Representation Date as though then made and to the timely performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to each of the following additional conditions:
ECTION
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
a) . The Registration Statement shall have become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or be pending or threatened by the Commission, any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters and the Company shall not have received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b) (or any required post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and declared effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430B).
Effectiveness of Registration Statement
b) On the date hereof, the Representatives shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accountants for the Company, a letter dated the date hereof addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives with respect to the audited and unaudited financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Accountants' Comfort Letter.
 
c) . On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP, independent public or certified public accountants for the Company, a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished by them pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 5, except that the specified date referred to therein for the carrying out of procedures shall be no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
d) For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date:
No Material Adverse Change or Ratings Agency Change.
(i) there shall not have occurred any Material Adverse Change that makes it, in the sole judgment of the Representatives, impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Notes as contemplated by the Prospectus; and
(ii) there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of any intended or potential downgrading or of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in the rating accorded to the Notes or any other debt securities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act.
e) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the opinions of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and Warner Norcross & Judd LLP, outside counsel for the Company, and Michael Cartier, Deputy General Counsel of the Company, each dated as of such Closing Date, in the forms attached hereto as Exhibit A-1, Exhibit A-2, Exhibit A-3, Exhibit B, and Exhibit C, respectively.
Opinion of Counsel for the Company.
f) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Winston & Strawn LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, dated as of such Closing Date, with respect to such matters as may be reasonably requested by the Underwriters.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters.
g) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received a written certificate executed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer or a Vice President of the Company and the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer or Treasurer of the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, to the effect that:
Officers' Certificate.
(i) the Company has received no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, and no proceedings for such purpose have been instituted or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened by the Commission;
(ii) the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form;
 
(iii) the representations and warranties of the Company set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made on and as of such Closing Date; and
(iv) the Company has complied with all the agreements hereunder and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to such Closing Date.
h) DocumentsOn or before the Closing Date, the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters shall have received such information, documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purposes of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Notes as contemplated herein, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations and warranties, or the satisfaction of any of the conditions or agreements, herein contained.
Additional
.
If any condition specified in this Section 5 is not satisfied when and as required to be satisfied, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time on or prior to the Closing Date, which termination shall be without liability on the part of any party to any other party, except that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
S 6. . If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives pursuant to Section 5 or 11, or if the sale to the Underwriters of the Notes on the Closing Date is not consummated because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or to comply with any provision hereof, the Company agrees to reimburse the Representatives and the other Underwriters (or such Underwriters as have terminated this Agreement with respect to themselves), severally, upon demand for all out-of-pocket expenses that shall have been reasonably incurred by the Representatives and the Underwriters in connection with the proposed purchase and the offering and sale of the Notes, including but not limited to fees and disbursements of counsel, printing expenses, travel expenses, postage, facsimile and telephone charges.
ECTION
Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses
S 7. . This Agreement shall not become effective until the execution and delivery of this Agreement by the parties hereto.
ECTION
Effectiveness of this Agreement
S 8. .
ECTION
Indemnification
(a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its directors, officers, employees and agents, and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration
Indemnification of the Underwriters.
 
Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and to reimburse each Underwriter and each such director, officer, employee, agent and controlling person for any and all expenses (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the Representatives) as such expenses are incurred by such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; , that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by the Underwriter consists of the information described in Section 8(b) hereof. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(a) shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company may otherwise have.
provided, however
(b) Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which the Company or any such director, officer or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of such Underwriter), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in the Registration Statement, any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company
Indemnification of the Company, its Directors and Officers.
 
by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein; and to reimburse the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person for any legal and other expense reasonably incurred as such expenses are incurred by the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action. The Company hereby acknowledges that the only information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Company Additional Written Communication, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) are the statements set forth in: (i) the third paragraph in the text under the caption "Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus concerning the terms of the offering, including the concession and reallowance to certain dealers, by the Underwriters; (ii) the fifth paragraph of text under the caption "Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus relating to over-allotment and stabilization by the Underwriters; and (iii) the sixth paragraph of text under the caption " Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus relating to penalty bids which may be imposed by the Underwriters. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(b) shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Underwriter may otherwise have.
(c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party will not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party for contribution or otherwise than under the indemnity agreement contained in this Section 8 or to the extent it is not prejudiced as a proximate result of such failure. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in, and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party; provided, however, such indemnified party shall have the right to employ its own counsel in any such action and to participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party, unless: (i) the employment of such counsel has been specifically authorized in writing by the indemnifying party; (ii) the indemnifying party has failed promptly to assume the defense and employ counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party; or (iii) the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) include both such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or any affiliate of the indemnifying party, and such indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that either (x) there may be one or more legal defenses available to it which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party or (y) a conflict may exist between such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not, in connection with any one such action or separate but substantially similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to a single firm of local counsel) for all such indemnified parties, which firm shall be designated in writing by the indemnified party (or by the Representatives as in the
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures.
 
case of Section 8(b)) and that all such reasonable fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred). After notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 8 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the next preceding sentence, in which case the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
(d) The indemnifying party under this Section 8 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Settlements.
S 9. . If the indemnification provided for in Section 8 is for any reason held to be unavailable to or otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party, in lieu of indemnifying such indemnified party thereunder, shall contribute to the aggregate amount paid or payable by such indemnified party, as incurred, as a result of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the front cover page of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Notes as set forth on such cover. The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or the Underwriters, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
ECTION
Contribution
 
The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8(c), any reasonable legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim.
The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 9 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 9.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the underwriting commissions received by such Underwriter in connection with the Notes underwritten by it and distributed to the public. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 9 are several, and not joint, in proportion to their respective underwriting commitments as set forth opposite their names in Schedule A. For purposes of this Section 9, each director, officer, employee and agent of an Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
S 10. . If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the several Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Notes that it has or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on such date, and the aggregate principal amount of Notes which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be purchased on such date, the other Underwriters shall be obligated, severally, in the proportion to the aggregate principal amounts of such Notes set forth opposite their respective names on Schedule A bears to the aggregate principal amount of such Notes set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Representatives with the consent of the non-defaulting Underwriters, to purchase such Notes which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase such Notes and the aggregate principal amount of such Notes with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes to be purchased on such date, and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Notes are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party except that the provisions of Sections 4, 8, 9 and 18 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination. In any such case, either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
ECTION
Default of One or More of the Several Underwriters
 
As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 10. Any action taken under this Section 10 shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
S 11. . Prior to the Closing Date, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice given to the Company if at any time (i) trading or quotation in any of the Company's securities shall have been suspended or limited by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange, or trading in securities generally on either the Nasdaq Stock Market or the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices shall have been generally established on any of such stock exchanges by the Commission or the FINRA; (ii) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared by any of federal or New York authorities; (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of national or international hostilities or any crisis or calamity involving the United States, or any change in the United States or international financial markets, or any substantial change or development involving a prospective substantial change in United States' or international political, financial or economic conditions, as in the judgment of the Representatives is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to market the Notes in the manner and on the terms described in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or to enforce contracts for the sale of securities; or (iv) there shall have occurred a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States or a material disruption in the Clearstream Banking and/or Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. settlement systems. Any termination pursuant to this Section 11 shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Sections 4 and 6 hereof, and provided further that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
ECTION
Termination of this Agreement
S 12. . The Company acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Notes and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company or its affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
ECTION
No Fiduciary Duty
 
S 13. . This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the several Underwriters with respect to the subject matter hereof. The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
ECTION
Entire Agreement
S 14. . The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company, of its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement (i) will remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any (A) investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the officers or employees of any Underwriter, or any person controlling the Underwriter, the Company, the officers or employees of the Company, or any person controlling the Company, as the case may be or (B) acceptance of the Notes and payment for them hereunder and (ii) will survive delivery of and payment for the Notes sold hereunder and any termination of this Agreement.
ECTION
Representations and Indemnities to Survive Delivery
S 15. . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed, hand delivered or telecopied and confirmed to the parties hereto as follows:
ECTION
Notices
If to the Representatives:
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
388 Greenwich Street
New York, NY 10013
Facsimile: 212-816-7912
Attention: General Counsel
and
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated
1585 Broadway
New York, NY 10036
Facsimile: 212-507-8999
Attention: Investment Banking Division
and
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
301 S. College Street, 6
th
Floor
Charlotte, NC 28288
Attention: Transaction Management
Facsimile: 704-383-9165
with a copy to:
Winston & Strawn LLP
 
35 W. Wacker Dr.
Chicago, IL 60601
Facsimile: 312-558-5700
Attention: James J. Junewicz
If to the Company:
Stryker Corporation
2825 Airview Boulevard
Kalamazoo, Michigan 49002
Facsimile: 269-385-2066
Attention: Thomas R. Winkel, Vice President and Secretary
with a copy to:
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP
155 North Wacker Drive
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Facsimile: 312-407-0411
Attention: William R. Kunkel
Any party hereto may change the address for receipt of communications by giving written notice to the others.
S 16. . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Underwriters pursuant to Section 10 hereof, and to the benefit of the directors, officers, employees, agents and controlling persons referred to in Sections 8 and 9, and in each case their respective successors, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder. The term "successors" shall not include any purchaser of the Notes as such from any of the Underwriters merely by reason of such purchase.
ECTION
Successors
S 17. . The invalidity or unenforceability of any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other Section, paragraph or provision hereof. If any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
ECTION
Partial Unenforceability
S 18. . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN THAT STATE.
ECTION
Governing Law Provisions
S 19. . This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or
ECTION
General Provisions
 
implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit. The Section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that it is a sophisticated business person who was adequately represented by counsel during negotiations regarding the provisions hereof, including, without limitation, the indemnification provisions of Section 8 and the contribution provisions of Section 9, and is fully informed regarding said provisions. Each of the parties hereto further acknowledges that the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 hereto fairly allocate the risks in light of the ability of the parties to investigate the Company, its affairs and its business in order to assure that adequate disclosure has been made in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (and any amendments and supplements thereto), as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copies hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts hereof, shall become a binding agreement in accordance with its terms.
 
The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted by the Representatives as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
Final Term Sheet dated September 13, 2011
None.
 
 
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at . Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling or e-mailing Citigroup Global Markets Inc. at 1-877-858-5407 or , Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC at 1-866-718-1649 or , or Wells Fargo Securities, LLC at 1-800-326-5897 or .
www.sec.gov
batprospectusdept@citi.com
prospectus@morganstanley.com
cmClientsupport@wachovia.com

Exhibit 4.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of September 16, 2011 (this "Third Supplemental Indenture") between Stryker Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Michigan (herein called the "Company"), having its principal office at 2825 Airview Boulevard, Kalamazoo, Michigan, and U.S. Bank National Association, a nationally chartered banking association, as trustee (herein called the "Trustee").
WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee have heretofore executed and delivered an Indenture, dated as of January 15, 2010 (the "Base Indenture" and, together with this Third Supplemental Indenture, the "Indenture"), providing for the issuance from time to time of the Company's debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein and therein called the "Securities"), to be issued in one or more series as provided in the Base Indenture;
WHEREAS, Section 901 of the Base Indenture permits the Company and the Trustee to enter into a supplemental indenture to the Base Indenture to establish the form and terms of any series of Securities;
WHEREAS, Section 201 of the Base Indenture permits the form of Securities of any series to be established in a supplemental indenture to the Base Indenture;
WHEREAS, Section 301 of the Base Indenture permits certain terms of any series of Securities to be established pursuant to a supplemental indenture to the Base Indenture;
WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 201 and 301 of the Base Indenture, the Company desires to provide for the establishment of a new series of Securities in an aggregate principal amount of $750,000,000 to be designated the "2.00% Notes due 2016" (hereinafter called the "Notes") under the Base Indenture, the form and substance of such Notes and the terms, provisions and conditions thereof to be set forth as provided in the Base Indenture and this Third Supplemental Indenture; and
WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Third Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done;
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the foregoing and the purchase of the Notes established by this Third Supplemental Indenture by the holders thereof (the "Holders"), it is mutually agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all such Holders, as follows:
SECTION 1.01 This Third Supplemental Indenture constitutes a part of the Base Indenture (the provisions of which, as modified by this Third Supplemental Indenture, shall apply to the Notes) in respect of the Notes but shall not modify, amend or otherwise affect the Base Indenture insofar as it relates to any other series of Securities or modify, amend or otherwise affect in any manner the terms and conditions of the Securities of any other series.
Relation to Base Indenture
.
SECTION 1.02 . For all purposes of this Third Supplemental Indenture, the capitalized terms used herein (i) which are defined in this Section 1.02 have the respective meanings assigned hereto in this Section 1.02 and (ii) which are defined in the Base Indenture (and which are not defined in this Section 1.02) have the respective meanings assigned thereto in the Base Indenture. For all purposes of this Third Supplemental Indenture:
Definitions
(a) Unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to an Article or Section refers to an Article or Section, as the case may be, of this Third Supplemental Indenture;
(b) The words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and words of similar import refer to this Third Supplemental Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision;
(c) Headings are for convenience or reference only and do not affect interpretations; and
(d) The terms defined in this Section 1.02(d) have the meanings assigned to them in this Section and include the plural as well as the singular:
"Applicable Procedures" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.07(a).
"Attributable Debt" in respect of a Sale and Leaseback Transaction means, at the time of determination, the present value (discounted at the imputed rate of interest of such transaction as determined in good faith by the Company) of the obligation of the lessee for net rental payments during the remaining term of the lease included in such Sale and Leaseback Transaction (including any period for which such lease has been extended or may, at the option of the lessor, be extended). The term "net rental payments" under any lease for any period means the sum of the rental and other payments required to be paid in such period by the lessee thereunder, not including any amounts required to be paid by such lessee (whether or not designated as rental or additional rent) on account of maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, water rates or similar charges required to be paid by such lessee thereunder or any amount required to be paid by lessee thereunder contingent upon the amount of maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, water rates or similar charges. In the case of any lease which is terminable by the lessee upon the payment of a penalty, such net amount shall be the lesser of (x) the net amount determined assuming termination upon the first date such lease may be terminated (in which case the net amount shall also include the amount of the penalty, but shall not include any rent that would be required to be paid under such lease subsequent to the first date upon which it may be so terminated) or (y) the net amount determined assuming no such termination.
"Base Indenture" has the meaning given to such term in the recitals hereof.
"Below Investment Grade Rating Event" means the Notes are rated below Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies on any date during the period commencing upon the first public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or the Company's intention to effect a Change of Control and ending 60 days following public notice of the occurrence of the related Change of Control (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies); that a Below Investment Grade Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Repurchase Event hereunder) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at its request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Rating Event).
provided
"Business Day" means any day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which the Trustee or banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or required by law or regulation to close.
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following:
(1) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company's assets and those of the Company's Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company or one of the Company's Subsidiaries;
 
(2) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution;
(3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors; or
(4) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company or one or more of its Subsidiaries, becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 of the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the then outstanding number of shares of the Company's Voting Stock.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction shall not be considered to be a Change of Control if (a) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (b)(i) immediately following that transaction, the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of the holding company are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (ii) immediately following that transaction, no person is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company.
"Change of Control Repurchase Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
"Company" has the meaning given to such term in the preamble hereof.
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by a Reference Treasury Dealer as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term (as measured from the date of redemption) of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, (2) if the Company can only obtain less than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations or (3) if the Company can only obtain one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation, such quotation.
"Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" means the total amounts of assets (less depreciation and valuation reserves and other reserves and items deductible from gross book value of specific asset accounts under generally accepted accounting principles) which under generally accepted accounting principles would be included on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its consolidated Restricted Subsidiaries after deducting (1) all current liabilities, excluding current liabilities that could be classified as long-term debt under generally accepted accounting principles and current liabilities that are by their terms extendable or renewable at the obligor's option to a time more than 12 months after the time as of which the amount of current liabilities is being computed; (2) Investments in Unrestricted Subsidiaries; and (3) all trade names, trademarks, licenses, patents, copyrights and goodwill, organizational and development costs, deferred charges, other than prepaid items such as insurance, taxes, interest, commissions, rents and similar items and tangible assets being amortized, and amortized debt discount and expense, less unamortized premium.
"Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of the issuance of the Notes; or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director).
 
"Definitive Notes" means certificated Notes registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 2.02 hereof, substantially in the form of hereto, except that such Security shall not bear the Global Note Legend.
Exhibit A
"Depositary" means, with respect to Global Notes issued under this Third Supplemental Indenture, DTC.
"Dollar" and "$" means the lawful currency of the United States of America.
"DTC" means The Depository Trust Company, its nominees and their successors and assigns.
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
"Exempted Debt" means the sum of the following items outstanding as of the date Exempted Debt is being determined (1) Indebtedness of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries secured by a Mortgage and not permitted to exist under the Indenture and (2) Attributable Debt of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of all Sale and Leaseback Transactions not permitted under the Indenture.
"Funded Debt" means Indebtedness that matures more than one year from the date of creation, or that is extendable or renewable at the sole option of the obligor so that it may become payable more than one year from such date. Funded Debt does not include (1) obligations created pursuant to leases, (2) any Indebtedness or portion thereof maturing by its terms within one year from the time of any computation of the amount of outstanding Funded Debt unless such Indebtedness shall be extendable or renewable at the sole option of the obligor in such manner that it may become payable more than one year from such time, or (3) any Indebtedness for the payment or redemption of which money in the necessary amount shall have been deposited in trust either at or before the maturity date thereof.
"Global Note" means a single permanent fully-registered global note in book-entry form, without coupons, substantially in the form of attached hereto.
Exhibit A
"Global Note Legend" means the legend set forth in Section 202 of the Base Indenture.
"Holders" has the meaning given to such term in the recitals hereof.
"Indebtedness" means any and all of the obligations of a Person for money borrowed which in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles would be reflected on the balance sheet of such Person as a liability as of the date of which the Indebtedness is to be determined.
"Indenture" has the meaning given to such term in the recitals hereof.
"Indirect Participant" means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Note through a Participant.
"Interest Payment Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03(c).
"Investment" means any investment in stock, evidences of Indebtedness, loans or advances, however made or acquired, but does not include the Company's account receivable or the accounts receivable of any Restricted Subsidiary arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, or any evidences of Indebtedness, loans or advance made in connection with the sale to any Subsidiary of the Company's accounts receivable or the accounts receivable of any Restricted Subsidiary arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business.
 
"Investment Grade" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moody's) and a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of S&P) or the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional Rating Agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
"Maturity Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03(b) hereof.
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
"Mortgage" means any mortgage, security interest, pledge, lien or other encumbrance.
"Notes" has the meaning given to such term in the recitals hereof.
"Participant" means, with respect to the Depositary, a Person who has an account with the Depositary.
"Permitted Mortgage" means (a) any purchase money mortgage on such Principal Property prior to, simultaneously with or within 180 days after the later of (1) the acquisition or completion of construction or completion of substantial reconstruction, renovation, remodeling, expansion or improvement of such Principal Property or (2) the placing in operation of such property after the acquisition or completion of any such construction or substantial reconstruction, renovation, remodeling, expansion or improvement; (b) Mortgages on a Principal Property existing at the time of acquisition, including acquisition through merger or consolidation; (c) Mortgages existing on the date of the Indenture, Mortgages on assets of a corporation or other business entity existing on the date it becomes a Restricted Subsidiary or is merged or consolidated with the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary or at the time the corporation or other business entity sells, leases or otherwise disposes of its property as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary or Mortgages on the assets of a Subsidiary that is newly designated as a Restricted Subsidiary if the Mortgage would have been permitted under the provisions of this paragraph if such Mortgage was created while the Subsidiary was a Restricted Subsidiary; (d) Mortgages in favor of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary; (e) Mortgages for taxes, assessments or governmental charges or levies which are not delinquent or which are being contested in good faith; (f) carriers', warehousemen's, materialmen's, repairmen's, mechanic's, landlords' and other similar Mortgages arising in ordinary course of business which are not delinquent or remain payable without penalty or which are being contested in good faith; (g) Mortgages (other than any Mortgage imposed by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974) consisting of pledges or deposits required in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation; (h) easements, rights-of-way, restrictions, encroachments, imperfections and other similar encumbrances affecting real property which, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount, and which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the Principal Property subject thereto or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the Company and its Subsidiaries' business, taken as a whole; (i) Mortgages arising by reason of deposits with, or the giving of any form of security to, any governmental agency or any body created or approved by law or governmental regulation, including any zoning or similar law or right reserved to or vested in any governmental office or agency to control or regulate the use of any real property; (j) Mortgages arising from filing Uniform Commercial Code financing statements relating solely to leases; and (k) Mortgages to secure Indebtedness incurred to extend, renew, refinance or replace Indebtedness secured by any Mortgages referred to above, provided that the principal amount of the extended, renewed, refinanced or replaced Indebtedness does not exceed the principal amount of Indebtedness so extended, renewed, refinanced or replaced, transaction costs and fees, and that any such Mortgage applies only to the same property or assets subject to the prior permitted Mortgage (and, in the case of real property, improvements).
plus
"Primary Treasury Dealer" means a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New York City.
"Principal Property" means all real property and improvements thereon owned by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, including, without limitation, any manufacturing, warehouse, distribution or
 
research facility, and improvements therein, having a net book value in excess of 2% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets that is located within the United States, excluding its territories and possessions and Puerto Rico. This term does not include any real property and improvements thereon that the Company's Board of Directors declares by resolution not to be of material importance to the total business conducted by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
"Rating Agency" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if any of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both of them, as the case may be.
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means (1) each of Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC and a Primary Treasury Dealer selected by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and their respective successors or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (2) any other Primary Treasury Dealer(s) selected by the Company.
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Company by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
"Regular Record Date" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03(c).
"Redemption Date" means the Business Day on which Notes are redeemed by the Company pursuant to Section 3.01 hereof
"Redemption Price" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.01(a).
"Registered Securities" means any Securities which are registered in the Security Register.
"Restricted Subsidiary" means a Subsidiary that owns a Principal Property.
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and its successors.
"Sale and Leaseback Transaction" means an arrangement with any Person providing for the leasing by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of any Principal Property owned or acquired thereafter that has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary to such Person with the intention of taking back a lease of such property.
"Securities" has the meaning given to such term in the recitals hereof.
"Senior Funded Debt" means all Funded Debt (except Funded Debt, the payment of which is subordinated to the payment of the Notes).
"Subsidiary" means a corporation, partnership or other legal entity of which, in the case of a corporation, more than 50% of the outstanding voting stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or by one or more other Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more other Subsidiaries or, in the case of any partnership or other legal entity, more than 50% of the ordinary capital interests is, at the time, directly or indirectly owned or controlled by the Company or by one or more other Subsidiaries. For the purposes of this definition, "voting stock" means the equity interest that ordinarily has voting power for the election of directors, managers or trustees of an entity, or persons performing similar functions, whether at all times or only so long as no senior class of equity interest has such voting power by reason of any contingency.
 
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
"Trustee" has the meaning given to such term in the preamble hereof.
"Unrestricted Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary other than a Restricted Subsidiary.
"Voting Stock" of any specified Person as of any date means the capital stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such Person.
SECTION 2.01 . In accordance with Section 301 of the Base Indenture, the Company hereby creates the Notes as a separate series of its securities issued pursuant to the Indenture. The Notes shall be issued initially in an aggregate principal amount of $750,000,000, except as permitted by Sections 304, 305 or 306 of the Base Indenture.
Creation of the Notes
SECTION 2.02 . The Notes shall each be issued in the form of a Global Note, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee, which shall be deposited with the Trustee as custodian for DTC and registered in the name of "Cede & Co.," as the nominee of DTC. The Notes shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto (including the Global Note Legend thereon). Notes issued in definitive certificated form in accordance with the terms of the Base Indenture and this Third Supplemental Indenture, if any, shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto (but without the Global Note Legend thereon). So long as DTC, or its nominee, is the registered owner of a Global Note, DTC or its nominee, as the case may be, shall be considered the sole owner or Holder of the Notes represented by such Global Note for all purposes under the Indenture. Ownership of beneficial interests in such Global Note shall be shown on, and transfers thereof shall be effected only through, records maintained by DTC (with respect to beneficial interests of participants) or by participants or Persons that hold interests through participants (with respect to beneficial interests of beneficial owners). In addition, the following provisions of clauses (1), (2), and (3) below shall apply only to Global Notes:
Form of the Notes
(1) Notwithstanding any other provision in the Indenture, no Global Note may be exchanged in whole or in part for Securities registered, and no transfer of a Global Note in whole or in part may be registered, in the name of any Person other than the Depositary for such Global Note or a nominee thereof unless (A) such Depositary has notified the Company that it is unwilling or unable or no longer permitted under applicable law to continue as Depositary for such Global Note and the Company has not appointed a successor Depositary within 90 days of receipt of such notice or has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, (B) there shall have occurred and be continuing an Event of Default with respect to such Global Note or (C) the Company (subject to the procedures of the Depositary) so directs the Trustee by Company Order. Beneficial interests in Global Notes may be exchanged for Definitive Notes of the same series upon request but only upon at least 30 days' prior written notice given to the Trustee by or on behalf of the Depository in accordance with customary procedures.
(2) Subject to clause (1) above, any exchange of a Global Note for other Securities may be made in whole or in part, and all Securities issued in exchange for a Global Note or any portion thereof shall be registered in such names as the Depositary for such Global Note shall direct.
(3) Every Security authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for or in lieu of, a Global Note or any portion thereof, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Note, unless such note is registered in the name of a Person other than the Depositary for such Global Note or a nominee thereof.
 
SECTION 2.03 . The Notes shall be governed by all the terms and conditions of the Base Indenture, as supplemented by this Third Supplemental Indenture. In particular, the following provisions shall be terms of the Notes:
Terms and Conditions of the Notes
(a) . The title of the Notes shall be as specified in the Recitals of the Company; and the aggregate principal amount of the Notes shall be as specified in Section 2.01 of this Article II, except as permitted by Sections 304, 305 or 306 of the Base Indenture.
Title and Aggregate Principal Amount
(b) . The Notes shall mature, and the unpaid principal thereon shall be payable, on September 30, 2016 (the "Maturity Date"), subject to the provisions of the Base Indenture and Articles III and IV below.
Stated Maturity
(c) . The rate per annum at which interest shall be payable on the Notes shall be 2.00%. Interest on the Notes shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on each March 30 and September 30, commencing on March 30, 2012 (each, an "Interest Payment Date"), to the Persons in whose names the applicable Notes are registered in the Security Register applicable to the Notes at the close of business on the immediately preceding March 15 or September 15, respectively, prior to the applicable Interest Payment Date regardless of whether such day is a Business Day (each, a "Regular Record Date"). Interest on the Notes shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. Interest on the Notes shall accrue from and including September 16, 2011. If an Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment shall be made on the next Business Day as if it were made on the date the payment was due, and no interest shall accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after that Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be, to the date the payment is made. Interest payments shall include accrued interest from and including the date of issue or from and including the last date in respect to which interest has been paid, as the case may be, to, but excluding, the Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be.
Interest
(d) . The Notes shall be issuable as Registered Securities as provided in Section 2.02 of this Article II. The Notes shall be issued and may be transferred only in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 above that amount. All payments of principal, Redemption Price and accrued unpaid interest in respect of the Notes shall be made by the Company in immediately available funds.
Registration and Form
(e) . The provisions for defeasance in Section 1302 of the Base Indenture, and the provisions for covenant defeasance in Section 1303 of the Base Indenture, shall be applicable to the Notes.
Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance
(f) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in the Base Indenture, the Company may, from time to time, without the consent of or notice to the Holders, create and issue further securities having the same ranking and terms and conditions as the Notes in all respects, except for issue date, the public offering price and, in some cases, the first Interest Payment Date. Additional Notes issued in this manner shall be consolidated with and shall form a single series with the previously outstanding Notes. Notice of any such issuance shall be given to the Trustee and a new supplemental indenture shall be executed in connection with the issuance of such additional Notes.
Further Issues
(g) . The Notes shall have such other terms and conditions as provided in the form thereof attached as Exhibit A.
Other Terms and Conditions
SECTION 2.04 . The Notes shall be general unsecured obligations of the Company. The Notes shall rank in right of payment with all unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness, including, without limitation, any unsecured senior indebtedness, of the Company and senior in right of payment to all subordinated indebtedness of the Company.
Ranking
pari passu
 
SECTION 2.05 . The Notes shall not be entitled to any sinking fund.
Sinking Fund
SECTION 2.06 . The Place of Payment in respect of the Notes will be at the office or agency of the Company in The City of New York, State of New York or at the office or agency of the Paying Agent in The City of New York, State of New York.
Place of Payment
SECTION 2.07 .
Transfer and Exchange
(a) The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Notes shall be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of the Base Indenture, this Third Supplemental Indenture and the then applicable procedures of the Depositary (the "Applicable Procedures"). In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Trustee either (A)(1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given in accordance with the Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase or, if Definitive Notes are at such time permitted to be issued pursuant to this Third Supplemental Indenture and the Base Indenture, (B)(1) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to cause to be issued a Definitive Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged and (2) instructions given by the Depositary to the Security Registrar containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Definitive Note shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (1) above. Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Notes contained in the Base Indenture, this Third Supplemental Indenture and the Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Security Registrar shall adjust the principal amount of the relevant Global Notes pursuant to Section 2.08 hereof.
(b) Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Notes and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 2.07(b), the Security Registrar shall register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Notes. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder shall present or surrender to the Trustee the Definitive Notes duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Security Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing. The Trustee shall cancel any such Definitive Notes so surrendered, and the Company shall execute and, upon receipt of a Company Order pursuant to Section 303 of the Base Indenture, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a new Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued pursuant to this Section 2.07(b) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the Holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Security Registrar through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such Definitive Notes are so registered. In addition, the requesting Holder shall provide any additional certifications, documents and information, as applicable, required pursuant to Section 305 of the Base Indenture.
SECTION 2.08 . At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Note have been exchanged for Definitive Notes or a particular Global Note has been redeemed, repurchased or cancelled in whole and not in part, each such Global Note shall be returned to or retained and cancelled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 309 of the Base Indenture. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any beneficial interest in a Global Note is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note or for Definitive Notes, the principal amount of Securities represented by such Global Note shall be reduced accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note, such other Global Note shall be increased accordingly and an endorsement shall be made on such Global Note by the Security Registrar or by the Depositary at the direction of the Security Registrar to reflect such increase.
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Notes
 
SECTION 3.01 .
Optional Redemption by Company
(a) The Company shall have the right to redeem the Notes at any time in whole or from time to time in part at a redemption price (the "Redemption Price") equal to the greater of:
(i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; and
(ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest thereon (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued as of the date of redemption), discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate, ten (10) basis points;
plus
, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the date of redemption.
plus
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) above, installments of interest on the Notes that are due and payable on any Interest Payment Date falling on or prior to a Redemption Date shall be payable on such Interest Payment Date to the registered Holders as of the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date according to the terms of the Notes and the Indenture. Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date, interest shall cease to accrue on any Notes or portions thereof that are called for redemption.
(c) Notices of redemption shall be mailed at least thirty (30) but not more than sixty (60) days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of the Notes to be redeemed at its registered address. The Company shall calculate the Redemption Price and shall deliver an Officers' Certificate to the Trustee setting forth the Redemption Price no later than two Business Days prior to the Redemption Date.
(d) If less than all the Notes are to be redeemed at any time, the Notes to be redeemed shall be selected by lot by DTC, in the case of Global Notes, or by the Trustee by a method the Trustee deems to be fair and appropriate, in the case of Notes that are not represented by a Global Note.
SECTION 4.01 .
Repurchase at the Option of Holders Upon Change of Control Repurchase Event
(a) If a Change of Control Repurchase Event occurs, unless the Company has exercised its right to redeem the Notes pursuant to the Indenture, the Company shall be required to make an offer to each Holder of the Notes to repurchase all or any part (in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 above that amount) of that Holder's Notes at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes repurchased any accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes repurchased to the date of repurchase.
plus
(b) Within thirty (30) days following any Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the option of the Company, prior to any Change of Control, but after the public announcement of an impending Change of Control, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Repurchase Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the payment date specified in the notice, which date shall be no earlier than thirty (30) days and no later than sixty (60) days from the date such notice is mailed. The notice
 
shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on a Change of Control Repurchase Event occurring on or prior to the payment date specified in the notice.
(c) The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act, and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder, to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions of the Notes, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions of the Notes or the Indenture by virtue of such conflict.
(d) On the Change of Control Repurchase Event payment date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
(i) accept for payment all the Notes or portions of the Notes (in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 above that amount) properly tendered pursuant to its offer;
(ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the aggregate purchase price in respect of all the Notes or portions of the Notes properly tendered; and
(iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee for cancellation the Notes properly accepted, together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes being repurchased by the Company.
(e) The Paying Agent shall promptly mail to each Holder of Notes properly tendered the purchase price for the Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail (or, if a Global Note, to be adjusted on the Schedule of Exchanges attached thereto) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any Notes surrendered; provided, that each new Note shall be in a minimum principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 above that amount.
(f) The Company shall not be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
SECTION 5.01 .
Limitation on Liens
(a) The Company shall not, and shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, issue, assume or guarantee any Indebtedness secured by any Mortgage upon any Principal Property of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary without equally and ratably securing the Notes (and, if the Company so determines, any other Indebtedness ranking equally with the Notes) with such Indebtedness; , , that the foregoing restrictions shall not prevent the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary from issuing, assuming or guaranteeing any Indebtedness secured by a Permitted Mortgage.
provided
however
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this Section 5.01, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may, in addition to Mortgages permitted by subsection (a) of this Section 5.01 and without equally and ratably securing the Notes, create or assume and renew, extend or replace Mortgages which would otherwise be subject to such subsection (a), provided that at the time of such creation, assumption, renewal, extension or replacement, and after giving effect thereto, Exempted Debt does not exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
 
SECTION 5.02 .
Limitations on Sale and Leaseback Transactions
(a) The Company shall not, and shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction without equally and ratably securing the Notes (and, if the Company so determines, any other Indebtedness ranking equally with the Notes) unless:
(i) within 180 days after the receipt of the proceeds of such sale or transfer, the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary applies an amount equal to the greater of the net proceeds of such sale or transfer or the fair value of such Principal Property at the time of such sale or transfer to any (or a combination) of (1) the prepayment or retirement (other than any mandatory prepayment or retirement) of Senior Funded Debt of the Company or (2) the purchase, construction, development, expansion or improvement of other comparable property, subject in each case to credits for voluntary retirements of Senior Funded Debt of the Company; or
(ii) the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary would be entitled, at the effective date of such sale or transfer, to incur Indebtedness secured by a Mortgage on such Principal Property, in an amount at least equal to the Attributable Debt in respect of the Sale and Leaseback Transaction, without equally and ratably securing the Notes pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.01 above.
The foregoing restriction shall not apply to any Sale and Leaseback Transaction (w) for a term of not more than three years including renewals, (x) with respect to a Principal Property if a binding commitment is entered into with respect to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction within three years after the later of (1) September 16, 2011 or (2) the date when the applicable Principal Property was acquired, (y) with respect to a Principal Property if a binding commitment with respect thereto is entered into within 180 days after the later of the date such property was acquired and, if applicable, the date such property was first placed in operation, or (z) between the Company and any Restricted Subsidiary or between Restricted Subsidiaries.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this Section 5.02, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may, in addition to Sale and Leaseback Transactions permitted by subsection (a) of this Section 5.02 and without equally and ratably securing the Notes, enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction without any obligation to retire any Senior Funded Debt of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, provided that, at the time of entering into such Sale and Leaseback Transaction, and after giving effect thereto, Exempted Debt does not exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
SECTION 6.01 . This Third Supplemental Indenture is executed and shall be construed as an indenture supplemental to the Base Indenture, and as supplemented and modified hereby, the Base Indenture is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and the Base Indenture and this Third Supplemental Indenture shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.
Ratification of Base Indenture
SECTION 6.02 . If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision hereof, or with a provision of the Base Indenture, which is required to be included in this Third Supplemental Indenture, or in the Base Indenture, respectively, by any of the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act, such required provision shall control to the extent it is applicable.
Conflict with Trust Indenture Act
SECTION 6.03 . The Article and Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
SECTION 6.04 . All covenants and agreements in this Third Supplemental Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
Successors and Assigns
 
SECTION 6.05 . In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Third Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Separability Clause
SECTION 6.06 . THIS THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Governing Law
SECTION 6.07 . This Third Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Third Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
Stryker Corporation, a Michigan corporation (herein called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of                      Dollars on September 30, 2016 and to pay interest thereon from September 16, 2011 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on March 30 and September 30 in each year, commencing March 30, 2012, at the rate of 2.00% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the March 15 or September 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in The City of New York, State of New York or at the office or agency of the Paying Agent in The City of New York, State of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided, however, that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by (i) check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register or (ii) wire transfer in immediately available funds to the place and account designated in writing by the Person entitled to such payment as specified in the Security Register; and provided further, that if this Security is a Global Note, payment may be made pursuant to the Applicable Procedures of the Depositary as permitted in the Indenture.
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereof has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
 
 
 
Dated: September     , 2011
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of January 15, 2010 (the "Base Indenture"), as supplemented by the Third Indenture Supplement, dated as of September 16, 2011 (the "Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, a nationally chartered banking association, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereofinitially limited in aggregate principal amount to $750,000,000, that the Company may, without the consent of any Holder, at any time and from time to time increase the initial principal amount
,
provided
.
The Securities of this series are subject to redemption as provided in Section 3.01 of the Supplemental Indenture and Article XI of the Base Indenture.
This Security will not be subject to any sinking fund.
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Securities of this series at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee reasonable indemnity, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Securities of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral amounts of $1,000 above that amount. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
THE SECURITIES OF THIS SERIES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.


