FILE:SYK/SYK-8K-20111019160205.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
  [ ]     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  [ ]     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  [ ]     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  [ ]     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Stryker Corporation (the Company) issued a press release on October 19, 2011 announcing its third quarter 2011 operating results.  A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
            
The Company supplements the reporting of its financial information determined under United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) with certain non-GAAP financial measures, including percentage sales growth in constant currency, adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted net earnings per share. We believe that these non-GAAP measures provide meaningful information to assist stockholders in understanding our financial results and assessing our prospects for future performance. Management believes percentage sales growth in constant currency, adjusted net earnings and adjusted net earnings per diluted share are important indicators of our operations because they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to our core operating results, and provide a baseline for analyzing trends in our underlying businesses. To measure percentage sales growth in constant currency, we remove the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates which affect the comparability and trend of sales. Percentage sales growth in constant currency is calculated by translating current year results at prior year average foreign currency exchange rates. To measure earnings performance on a consistent and comparable basis, we exclude certain items which affect the comparability of operating results and the trend of earnings. Because non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names. These adjusted financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for reported sales growth, net earnings and diluted net earnings per share, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures as presented in Exhibit 99.1, provide a more complete understanding of our business. The Company strongly encourages investors and stockholders to review its financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure.
 
The reconciliation of projected reported diluted net earnings per share to adjusted diluted net earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2011 is as follows:
 
 
The reconciliation of reported diluted net earnings per share to adjusted diluted net earnings per share for the quarters ended September 30, 2011 and 2010 is included in the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
STRYKER CORPORATION
(Registrant)
 
                                                        
October 19, 2011
/s/ CURT R. HARTMAN
Date                                                                            Curt R. Hartman
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
STRYKER REPORTS THIRD QUARTER 2011 RESULTS
 
 
Kalamazoo, Michigan - October 19, 2011 - Stryker Corporation (NYSE:SYK) reported operating results for the third quarter 2011 as follows:
 
Third Quarter Highlights
 
 
"It was another quarter of consistent and solid sales and earnings growth, despite the continued challenges presented in today's difficult economic environment," commented Stephen P. MacMillan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "We are on track to achieve double-digit sales growth in 2011 and adjusted per share earnings at the high end of the range we targeted at the start of the year, underscoring the strength of our diversified sales footprint."
 
Sales Analysis
 
Consolidated third quarter 2011 net sales of $2.03 billion increased 14.9% over the prior year.  Net sales grew by 6.1% due to increased unit volume and changes in product mix, 7.6% as a result of acquisitions, and 3.2% due to the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates, which were partially offset by an unfavorable impact of 2.0% due to changes in price.
 
Reconstructive products third quarter 2011 worldwide sales of $901 million increased 8.0% over the prior year, as reported, and 3.9% in constant currency, as higher shipments of hip and trauma and extremities implant systems, and sales growth through acquisitions, were offset by lower shipments of knee and other implant systems. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, sales of Reconstructive products increased 2.3% in constant currency over the prior year.
 
MedSurg products third quarter 2011 worldwide sales of $767 million increased 12.0% over the prior year, as reported, and 9.8% in constant currency, driven by higher shipments of surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems, endoscopic and communications systems and patient handling and emergency medical equipment, and sales growth through acquisitions.  Excluding the impact of acquisitions, sales of MedSurg products increased 7.7% in constant currency over the prior year.
 
Neurotechnology and Spine products third quarter 2011 worldwide sales of $363 million increased 45.8% over the prior year, as reported, and 43.0% in constant currency, primarily due to sales growth through acquisitions.  Excluding the impact of acquisitions, sales of Neurotechnology and Spine products increased 0.5% in constant currency over the prior year.
 
Earnings Analysis
 
Net earnings for the third quarter 2011 include acquisition and integration related charges of $25 million (net of income tax benefits) related to the Neurovascular, Orthovita and Memometal acquisitions. These charges reduced the reported gross profit margin from 68.0% to 67.1% and the reported operating income margin from 23.8% to 21.9%.
 
Excluding the impacts of the acquisition and integration-related charges, adjusted net earnings for the third quarter 2011 of $352 million increased 11.0% from $317 million in the prior year.  Adjusted diluted net earnings per share for the third quarter 2011 of $0.91 increased 13.8% from $0.80 in the prior year.
(1)
(2)
 
Net earnings for the third quarter 2011 of $327 million decreased 3.0% from $337 million in the prior year.  Diluted net earnings per share for the third quarter 2011 of $0.84 decreased 1.2% from $0.85 in the prior year.
 
2011 Outlook
 
The Company expects 2011 constant currency net sales to increase 11-12% from higher shipments of Reconstructive products, MedSurg products and Neurotechnology and Spine products and sales growth through acquisitions compared to its prior forecast of 11-13%.  Assuming foreign currency exchange rates hold near current levels, the Company expects net sales will be favorably impacted by approximately 0-1% in the fourth quarter 2011 and by approximately 2-3% for the full year 2011.  Excluding the expected impact of foreign currency and acquisitions, sales growth is expected to be 4-5% for the full year 2011 compared to its prior forecast of 5-7%.
 
The Company now projects 2011 adjusted diluted net earnings per share will be in the range of $3.70 to $3.74 versus the previous range of $3.65 to $3.73, an increase of 11% to 12% over adjusted diluted net earnings per share of $3.33 in the prior year.  In 2011, the Company expects acquisition and integration-related charges of approximately $0.33 to $0.35 per share (net of income tax benefits), including transaction costs, integration-related charges and additional cost of sales for inventory sold that was "stepped up" to fair value.
 
1)  A reconciliation of reported net earnings to adjusted net earnings, a non-GAAP financial measure, and other important information, appears below.
 
2)  A reconciliation of reported diluted net earnings per share to adjusted diluted net earnings per share, a non-GAAP financial measure, and other important information, appears below.
 
 
Conference Call
 
As previously announced the Company will host a conference call for financial analysts at 4:30 p.m., Eastern Time, today to discuss the Company's operating results for the third quarter 2011 and provide an operational update.
 
To participate in the conference call dial 800-706-7749 (domestic)or 617-614-3474 (international)and enter the participant passcode 40369093 A simultaneous webcast of the call will be accessible via the Company's website at www.stryker.com. The call will be archived on this site for 90 days.
.
 
A recording of the call will also be available from 7:30 p.m., Eastern Time, on Wednesday, October 19, 2011, until 7:30 p.m. on Wednesday, October 26, 2011. To hear this recording, dial 888-286-8010 (domestic) or 617-801-6888 (international) and enter the passcode 22161985.
 
Forward Looking Statements
 
Certain statements made in the presentation may contain information that includes or is based on forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law that are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: weakening of economic conditions that could adversely affect the level of demand for the Company's products; pricing pressures generally, including cost-containment measures that could adversely affect the price of or demand for the Company's products; changes in foreign exchange markets; legislative and regulatory actions; unanticipated issues arising in connection with clinical studies and otherwise that affect U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval of new products; changes in reimbursement levels from third-party payors; a significant increase in product liability claims; resolution of tax audits; changes in financial markets; changes in the competitive environment; and the Company's ability to integrate acquisitions. Additional information concerning these and other factors are contained in the Company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
 
Stryker is one of the world's leading medical technology companies and is dedicated to helping healthcare professionals perform their jobs more efficiently while enhancing patient care. The Company offers a diverse array of innovative medical technologies, including reconstructive, medical and surgical, and neurotechnology and spine products to help people lead more active and more satisfying lives. For more information about Stryker, please visit www.stryker.com.
 
For investor inquiries please contact:
Katherine A. Owen, Stryker Corporation, 269-385-2600 or katherine.owen@stryker.com
 
 
 
 
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION - CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
 
We supplement the reporting of our financial information determined under United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) with certain non-GAAP financial measures, including percentage sales growth in constant currency, adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted net earnings per share. We believe that these non-GAAP measures provide meaningful information to assist stockholders in understanding our financial results and assessing our prospects for future performance.  Management believes percentage sales growth in constant currency, adjusted net earnings and adjusted net earnings per diluted share are important indicators of our operations because they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to our core operating results, and provide a baseline for analyzing trends in our underlying businesses. To measure percentage sales growth in constant currency, we remove the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates which affect the comparability and trend of sales. Percentage sales growth in constant currency is calculated by translating current year results at prior year average foreign currency exchange rates. To measure earnings performance on a consistent and comparable basis, we exclude certain items which affect the comparability of operating results and the trend of earnings. Because non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names. These adjusted financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for reported sales growth, net earnings and diluted net earnings per share, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the below reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide a more complete understanding of our business. We strongly encourage investors and stockholders to review our financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure.
The reconciliation provided below reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted net earnings per share, with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures, reported net earnings and diluted net earnings per share:
 
 
 


