FILE:SYK/SYK-8K-20111110160541.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
                
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): November 10, 2011
                
STRYKER CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
                
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]
    
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]
    
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]
    
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]
    
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On November 10, 2011, Stryker Corporation (Stryker) announced its intention to implement focused workforce reductions of approximately 5% of its global workforce and other restructuring activities. These actions are being initiated to provide efficiencies and realign resources following recent acquisitions to allow for continued investment in strategic areas in an ongoing challenging economic environment and market slowdown in elective procedures.
The total pre-tax charges expected to be incurred in connection with the restructuring are approximately $150 million to $175 million, of which approximately $85 million to $95 million are expected to be recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011. The charges are expected to be comprised of approximately $85 million to $95 million in one-time employee termination costs, including severance and other benefits; $30 million to $35 million in impairments of long-lived assets; and $35 million to $45 million in other associated restructuring costs. The Company expects that approximately $120 million to $140 million of the charges will result in future cash expenditures. All expenditures are expected to be completed by the end of 2012.
On November 10, 2011, Stryker issued a press release announcing the restructuring of the Company's workforce and the matters described in Item 2.05 of this Form 8-K. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
    
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Press release dated November 10, 2011
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index
Exhibit
    
Description
99.1
        
Press release dated November 10, 2011

STRYKER ANNOUNCES ACTIONS TO DRIVE OVER $100 MILLION
IN ANNUAL PRODUCTIVITY GAINS
Kalamazoo, Michigan - November 10, 2011 - Stryker Corporation (NYSE:SYK) announced its intention to implement focused workforce reductions of approximately 5% of its global workforce and other restructuring activities that are anticipated to reduce annual pre-tax operating costs by over $100 million beginning in 2013. The targeted reductions and other restructuring activities are being initiated to provide efficiencies and realign resources in advance of the new Medical Device Excise Tax scheduled to begin in 2013, as well as to allow for continued investment in strategic areas and drive growth despite the ongoing challenging economic environment and market slowdown in elective procedures. The reductions and restructuring activities are expected to be substantially complete by the end of 2012. Stryker will provide employees affected by these reductions with severance packages, counseling and job placement services.
The Company expects to record pre-tax restructuring charges related to these reductions and restructuring activities totaling approximately $150 million to $175 million, of which approximately $85 million to $95 million are expected to be recorded in the fourth quarter of 2011.
As our markets continue to evolve, these actions are part of our ongoing focus on quality, innovation and cost, and position the Company to continue to provide strong, consistent growth in a changing environment, said Stephen P. MacMillan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Against this backdrop, we are committed to achieving consistent double-digit per share earnings growth in 2011 and beyond.
Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains information that includes or is based on forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law that are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: weakening of economic conditions that could adversely affect the level of demand for the Company's products; pricing pressures generally, including cost-containment measures that could adversely affect the price of or demand for the Company's products; changes in foreign exchange markets; legislative and regulatory actions; unanticipated issues arising in connection with clinical studies and otherwise that affect U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval of new products; changes in reimbursement levels from third-party payors; a significant increase in product liability claims; resolution of tax audits; changes in financial markets; changes in the competitive environment; the Company's ability to integrate acquisitions; and the Company's ability to realize anticipated cost savings as a result of workforce reductions and other restructuring activities. Additional information concerning these and other factors are contained in the Company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
Stryker is one of the world's leading medical technology companies and is dedicated to helping healthcare professionals perform their jobs more efficiently while enhancing patient care. The Company offers a diverse array of innovative medical technologies, including reconstructive, medical and surgical, and neurotechnology and spine products to help people lead more active and more satisfying lives. For more information about Stryker, please visit
www.stryker.com
.
For investor inquiries please contact:
Katherine A. Owen, Stryker Corporation, 269-385-2600 or
Katherine.owen@stryker.com


