FILE:SYK/SYK-8K-20120224100252.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
February 21, 2012
STRYKER CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]
    
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]
    
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]
    
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]
    
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
(e)(i)    On February 21, 2012, the Company awarded stock options and restricted stock units (RSUs) under its 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, and performance stock units (PSUs) under its 2011 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The awards to the Company's 2011 named executive officers who continue to be employed by the Company are as follows:
The stock options have an exercise price of $53.60 per share, the closing sales price per share as reported on the NYSE Composite Transactions on February 17, 2012, the last market trading day prior to the grant date. The PSUs will be earned based on the achievement of pre-established three-year average adjusted diluted net earnings per share goals, as well as sales growth performance relative to a comparison group of companies, and will be settled in Common Stock in early 2015 following the completion of the three-year performance period. The vesting schedule of the RSUs will be 25% on March 21, 2013; 25% on March 21, 2014; and the remaining 50% on March 21, 2015.
(e)(ii)    As previously reported, Stephen P. MacMillan resigned as Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective February 8, 2012. He remains an employee until February 29, 2012 (the Separation Date).
Pursuant to a Resignation Agreement and General Release entered into between Stryker and Mr. MacMillan on February 21, 2012, he will receive a payment of $5,500,000 on or about February 29, 2012. In addition, the options held by Mr. MacMillan to acquire 1,199,161 shares of Common Stock that had vested as of the Separation Date will remain exercisable until the earlier of two years after the Separation Date or the expiration of the applicable term of the option and the options to acquire 676,644 shares that had not yet vested will be forfeited. The performance stock units covering 60,268 shares at target levels of performance that were granted in 2011 and have a three-year performance period will remain outstanding until the vesting date of March 21, 2014, at which time Mr. MacMillan will become vested in 38.8% of the number of units that would have vested if his employment had continued until the vesting date, such percentage being the pro-rata portion determined by dividing the number of days in the performance period that Mr. MacMillan was an employee of the Company by the total number of days in the performance period.
The Company will provide, at no expense to Mr. MacMillan, continued participation in its medical, dental and vision plans for 18 months after the Separation Date and will make a lump sum payment of six times the monthly premium for such coverage after the end of the 18-month period, provided that his entitlement to such benefits and payments shall cease on the date he becomes eligible to participate in another employer's group health plan. Mr. MacMillan is also entitled to payment of his 2011 bonus of $1,166,631 as well as the vested benefits under any other Stryker benefit plan in which he has participated, including the 401(k) Plan and the Supplemental Plan. The Company will also provide Mr. MacMillan with a temporary office until the earlier of six months from the Separation Date or his becoming employed by a future employer and has agreed to reimburse Mr. MacMillan for up to $12,500 of attorney fees incurred in connection with the negotiation of the Resignation Agreement.
Mr. MacMillan has released the Company and its affiliates from, and provided a complete waiver of, any and all claims that he or his representatives had, have or may have against them. The Company has released Mr. MacMillan from, and provided a complete waiver of, any and all claims that the Company or its affiliates had, have or may have against him, except for any claim that he committed a crime or engaged in gross negligence, fraud or willful misconduct. Mr. MacMillan has agreed to customary restrictive covenants, including that he not disclose confidential information and that, for a period of two years following the Separation Date, he will not compete with the Company or its affiliates or solicit their business, customers, suppliers or employees, subject to certain exceptions. In the event of a final non-appealable judicial determination that he has materially breached the restrictive covenants, Mr. MacMillan would be required to repay to the Company the $5,500,000 payment as well as the portion of any gain realized from the exercise of any stock option that is attributable to an increase in the value of the Common Stock occurring more than 30 days after the Separation Date and the proceeds realized upon vesting of any performance stock units or, if such determination occurs prior to the vesting date in 2014, the performance stock units would be forfeited. Any unexercised options at the determination date would also be forfeited.
The summary description of the Resignation Agreement and General Release contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K is not complete
and is qualified in its entirety by, and should be read in conjunction with, the complete text of the Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
    
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

RESIGNATION AGREEMENT AND GENERAL RELEASE
This RESIGNATION AGREEMENT AND GENERAL RELEASE (the 
Agreement
), dated as of February 21, 2012, is entered into by and between Stryker Corporation, a Michigan corporation (the 
Company
 and, together with its subsidiaries, the 
Company Group
), and the undersigned, Stephen P. MacMillan.
RECITALS
Prior to February 8, 2012, the undersigned served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and as Chairman of the Company's Board of Directors. The undersigned has resigned as an officer and member of the board of directors of all members of the Company Group effective February 8, 2012. The undersigned and the Company have further agreed that the undersigned will resign as an employee of the Company on February 29, 2012 (the 
Separation Date
) and that such resignation shall be treated as a termination without cause for purposes of the applicable compensatory agreements to which the undersigned and any member of the Company Group are parties and for purposes of the benefits plans of the Company Group in which the undersigned participates. By entering into this Agreement (and not revoking the release of claims contained herein (the 
General Release
)), the undersigned and the Company desire to specify, as well as settle and conclude, all of the undersigned's rights and obligations in connection with his employment with the Company Group, and the termination thereof.
AGREEMENT
NOW, THEREFORE, the undersigned and the Company agree as follows:
I, Stephen P. MacMillan, in consideration of and subject to the terms and conditions set forth below, do hereby release and forever discharge and covenant not to sue each member of the Company Group, its directors, officers, executives, employees, agents, members and stockholders and the predecessors, successors, and assigns of any of the foregoing (in each case, both individually and in their official capacities) (all of the foregoing, collectively, the 
Company Released Parties
), from any and all actions, causes of action, covenants, contracts, claims, demands, suits, and liabilities whatsoever, which I ever had, now have, or which my heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns now have, or any of them hereafter can, shall, or may have against any Company Released Party, including, without limitation, arising by reason of or related to my employment with or termination of my employment from the Company Group.
By signing this Agreement, I am providing a complete waiver of all claims against the Company Released Parties that may have arisen, whether known or unknown to me, up until the effective date of this Agreement. This includes, but is not limited to, claims against any Company Released Party:
violation of any local, state, or federal law or regulation;
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company and I agree that this General Release does not release or waive my right or claim to any of the following:
I further agree, promise, and covenant that, to the maximum extent permitted by law, neither I, nor any natural person, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust or other organization or entity (a 
Person
) acting on my behalf has filed or will file, charge, claim, sue, or cause or permit to be filed, charged, or claimed, any action for damages or other relief (including injunctive, declaratory, monetary, or other relief) against the Company Released Parties involving any matter occurring in the past, or involving or based upon any claims, demands, causes of action, obligations, damages, or liabilities, in each case which are released by this General Release. I represent, as of the date hereof, that I am not aware of any basis for a claim by me against any Company Released Parties that would be released by this General Release. This General Release shall not affect my rights under the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act to have a judicial determination of the validity of this General Release and does not purport to limit any right I may have to file a charge under the ADEA or other civil rights statute, or to participate in an investigation or proceeding conducted by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or other investigative agency. This General Release does, however, waive and release any right to recover damages in any proceeding under the ADEA or other civil rights statute.
I have been given twenty-one (21) days to review this General Release and have been given the opportunity to consult with legal counsel, and I am signing this Agreement knowingly, voluntarily, and with full understanding of its terms and effects, and I voluntarily accept the severance benefits provided for herein for the purpose of making full and final settlement of all claims referred to above. If I have
signed this Agreement prior to the expiration of the twenty-one (21) day period, I have done so voluntarily. I also understand that I have seven (7) days after executing this Agreement to revoke this General Release, and that this General Release shall not become effective if I exercise my right to revoke my signature within seven (7) days of execution. If I elect to revoke this General Release during the revocation period, this Agreement shall be void and of no effect in its entirety. However, I understand that the termination of my employment shall still be effective.
shall provide, at no expense to the undersigned, for the undersigned's continued participation in the medical, dental and vision plans of the Company at the levels as in effect as of the Separation Date.
have against the Company or any party released herein under the ADEA;
[Signature Page Follows]
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed by the undersigned and the Company as of the first date written above.
/s/ Stephen P. MacMillan
    
Stephen P. MacMillan
STRYKER CORPORATION
By:
/s/ Curt R. Hartman
    
Name: Curt R. Hartman
Title: Interim Chief Executive Officer
Appendix 1
Restrictive Covenants
(a)
Except with the prior written consent of the Company authorized by a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company, for a period of two (2) years after the Separation Date, Stephen P. MacMillan (the 
Executive
) will not, directly or indirectly, (
i
) own, manage, operate, join, control, be employed by, or participate in the ownership, management, operation or control of, or otherwise be connected in any manner with, including, without limitation, holding any position as a shareholder, director, officer, consultant, independent contractor, employee or partner of, spokesman for, or investor in, any business which is competitive with (
x
) the businesses of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates (the 
Company Group
) as of the Separation Date or (
y
) any prospective business activity of any member of the Company Group to which any member of the Company Group has devoted more than de minimis resources in considering prior to the Separation Date (each, a 
Competitor
), or (
ii
) act as a Competitor in an individual capacity;
provided
, that (
A
) in no event shall ownership by the Executive of one percent (1%) or less of the outstanding securities of any class of any issuer whose securities are registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, standing alone, be considered a violation of this Section 1(a), so long as the Executive does not have, or exercise, any rights to manage or operate the business of such issuer other than rights as a shareholder thereof and (
B
) this provision shall not bar the Executive from providing services to a Competitor, the business of which is diversified and includes at least one business unit which, standing alone, would not be a Competitor (a 
Noncompeting Business Unit
), and the Executive's services relate solely to one or more Noncompeting Business Units. If the Executive commences to provide services to a Competitor, the Executive will provide the Company written assurances satisfactory to the Company that indicate that the Executive will not, directly or indirectly, provide services other than to one or more Noncompeting Business Units for a period of two (2) years following the Separation Date. The Executive acknowledges that the Company may also require, and will use his reasonable best efforts to assist the Company to obtain, such written assurances from the Competitor.
(b)
Except with the prior written consent of the Company authorized by a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company, for a period of two (2) years after the Separation Date, the Executive shall not, directly or indirectly:
i.
take any action to solicit or divert any material business or customers away from any member of the Company Group;
ii.
induce customers, potential customers, suppliers, agents or other Persons under contract or otherwise associated or doing business with any member of the Company Group to terminate, reduce or alter any such association or business; or
iii.
induce any person who is, or within twelve (12) months prior to the date of such contact, inducement or solicitation was, employed by any member of the Company Group to (
A
) terminate his or her employment, (
B
) accept employment with another Person, or (
C
) interfere with the customers or suppliers of any member of the Company Group or otherwise interfere with any member of the Company Group in any manner.
(c)
The restrictions set forth in this Section 1 are considered by the Executive and the
Company to be reasonable. However, if any such restriction is found to be unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction because it extends for too long a period of time or over too great a range of activities or is too broad a geographic area, it shall be interpreted to extend only over the maximum period of time, range of activities or geographic area as to which it may be enforceable, and the parties expressly request and authorize such court to amend the terms of this Section 1 in whatever manner necessary to render it valid and enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by law.
2.
Preservation of Confidential Information
. The Executive recognizes and acknowledges that, in his capacity as Chief Executive Officer of the Company and Chairman of its Board of Directors, he was in possession of information related to the confidential affairs of the Company Group, including, without limitation, technical information, intellectual property, business and marketing plans, strategies, customer information, software, other information concerning the products, promotions, development, financing, expansion plans, business policies and practices of the Company Group and other forms of information considered by the Company Group to be confidential and in the nature of trade secrets (including, without limitation, ideas, research and development, know-how, formulas, technical data, designs, drawings, specifications, customer and supplier lists, pricing and cost information and business and marketing plans and proposals) considered by the Company to be special, valuable and unique assets of the Company Group (the 
Confidential Information
). The Executive will not, at any time, disclose any such Confidential Information to any Person for any reason or purpose whatsoever without the prior written consent of the Company, unless such information shall have previously become public knowledge (other than by reason of the Executive's breach of this Section 2) or unless required by law to disclose such Confidential Information, in which case the Executive shall provide the Company with written notice of such requirement as far in advance of such anticipated disclosure as possible so as to enable the Company to seek an appropriate protective order or confidential treatment. This confidentiality covenant has no geographical or territorial restriction.
3.
Remedies
. In the event of a breach or threatened breach by the Executive of the provisions of Section 1 or 2 of this Appendix, the Company shall be entitled to an injunction restraining the Executive from violating either of said provisions, or any other remedy, including the recovery of damages from the Executive. In the event that the undersigned engages in a material breach of the Restrictive Covenants, upon a final non-appealable judicial determination that the undersigned has engaged in such a breach, within five (5) business days after such determination, the undersigned shall repay to the Company the following amounts: (
i
) the Severance Pay, (
ii
) the portion of the gain realized from the exercise of any Option that is allocable to any increase in the value of the Company's common stock occurring more than thirty (30) days after the Separation Date, and (
iii
) the proceeds realized upon vesting of performance stock units upon the PSU Vesting Date. If such determination occurs prior to the PSU Vesting Date, the undersigned's rights in respect of the performance stock units shall be forfeited. Any Option that has not been exercised as of the date of such determination shall be forfeited.
4.
Prior Compliance
. The Executive represents and warrants to the Company that, if the terms of this Appendix had been in effect prior to the Separation Date, he would not have been in material breach of the terms of this Appendix.
5.
Capitalized Terms
. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the same meaning as in the Resignation Agreement to which this Appendix is attached.


