FILE:SYK/SYK-8K-20121003163051.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
September 28, 2012
STRYKER CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Stryker Corporation announced on October 1, 2012 that Kevin A. Lobo has been appointed as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective immediately. In addition, the Board of Directors elected Mr. Lobo to a newly created position on the Board of Directors, also effective October 1, 2012. It is not anticipated that Mr. Lobo will serve on any committee of the Board. A copy of the related press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Mr. Lobo, age 47, has had a 25-year business career that includes executive positions in general management and finance. He joined Stryker in April 2011 as Group President of the Neurotechnology and Spine Group and in June 2011 was appointed Group President, Orthopaedics. Before joining Stryker, Mr. Lobo had held a number of senior-level leadership roles at Johnson & Johnson and, since 2006, had been President of Johnson & Johnson's Ethicon Endo-Surgery subsidiary, a $4 billion business. Prior to joining Johnson & Johnson, Mr. Lobo held finance positions at KPMG, Unilever Canada and Kraft Canada and subsequently held executive positions at Rhone-Poulenc. Mr. Lobo, as the sole member of management on the Board, will provide the Board with the necessary link to the day-to-day operations as well as the benefits of his broad and diverse business experience.
The terms of Mr. Lobo's continuing employment with the Company as President and Chief Executive Officer are set forth in a letter agreement, dated September 28, 2012. Pursuant to the agreement, Mr. Lobo is entitled to a base salary at the annual rate of $1,000,000 that will be reviewed annually for any increase by the Board of Directors or a committee of the Board. Mr. Lobo's targeted annual bonus in his position as President and Chief Executive Officer will be 130% of his base salary. For 2012, 75% of his bonus will be determined based on the target and goals established for him at the beginning of the year as Group President, Orthopaedics and 25% will be based on the target and goals applicable to him as Chief Executive Officer. On October 1, 2012 Mr. Lobo was granted stock options to purchase 107,795 shares of the Company's common stock at an exercise price of $55.66 per share. The options will become exercisable as to 20% of the shares on each of the first five anniversary dates of the date of grant. He also was awarded restricted stock units covering 53,899 shares that will vest on October 1, 2015 and performance stock units with a target award of 35,932 shares. The performance stock units will have a payout range of 0% to 200% of the target award, will be earned based on the achievement of the goals established for performance stock units awarded at the beginning of 2012 to Mr. Lobo and other senior executives related to the three-year average adjusted diluted net earnings per share and sales growth performance relative to a comparison group of companies and will be settled in shares of common stock in early 2015 following the completion of the three-year performance period. Mr. Lobo's long-term incentive awards for 2013, which pursuant to the Company's granting policy will be made in February 2013, are targeted at a grant date fair value of $6,000,000 and will be determined in accordance with the structure and terms of the annual awards granted to other senior executives at that time. The summary description of Mr. Lobo's employment terms contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by, and should be read in conjunction with, the complete text of the letter agreement, dated September 28, 2012, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Stryker announced that Curt R. Hartman, who had served as Interim Chief Executive Officer since February of this year in addition to being Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, has resigned as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective September 30, 2012. Mr. Hartman will remain an employee of the Company and will serve as an Advisor to the Chief Executive Officer to assure a smooth transition. The Company is currently discussing the terms of Mr. Hartman's separation with him and will disclose those terms in an amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K at such time as agreement is reached. In the meantime, Dean H. Bergy, age 53, who currently serves as Vice President, Corporate Secretary of the Company and had previously been Vice President, Chief Financial Officer from January 2003 to March 2009, has been appointed Interim Chief Financial Officer effective October 1, 2012. Following his resignation as Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Bergy continued to be employed by the Company as an Advisor to the CFO and was elected Secretary of the Company in September 2011 and Vice President, Corporate Secretary in September 2012. Mr. Bergy's base salary as Interim Chief Financial Officer will be at the annualized rate of $517,500 through the end of the month in which he ceases
to serve as Interim Chief Financial Officer and he will receive a bonus of $97,031 for the remainder of 2012 in addition to any 2012 performance bonus that he is entitled to based on the target and goals established for him at the beginning of the year in his position as Secretary. In addition, Mr. Bergy will be granted stock options and restricted stock units on November 1, 2012 that have a combined grant date fair value of $256,500 based on the closing price of the Company's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the last trading day preceding the date of grant. The options will become exercisable as to 20% of the shares on each of the first five anniversary dates of the date of grant and the restricted stock units will vest as to one-third of the underlying shares on February 21, 2013, 2014 and 2015. If Mr. Bergy continues in the role of Interim Chief Financial Officer after December 31, 2012, his compensation will be reviewed at that time. The summary description of Mr. Bergy's employment terms contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by, and should be read in conjunction with, the complete text of the letter agreement, dated October 1, 2012, which is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Stryker Names Kevin A. Lobo as President and Chief Executive Officer
Kalamazoo, Michigan - October 1, 2012 - Stryker Corporation's (NYSE:SYK) Board of Directors announced today that Kevin A. Lobo has been named the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, effective immediately. He has also been named to the Company's Board of Directors. Mr. Lobo joined Stryker in April 2011, and was most recently Group President of Stryker Orthopaedics. Orthopaedics includes the Company's Reconstructive, Osteosynthesis, Joint Preservation, Orthobiologics and Performance Solutions businesses.
Mr. Lobo has a broad and diverse 25-year business career that includes executive positions in general management and finance. After holding finance positions with KPMG and Unilever Canada, he joined Kraft Canada in 1992. He subsequently held executive positions at Rhone-Poulenc, including roles based in Europe as Worldwide Corporate Controller of the chemical spin-out, Rhodia, and General Manager of Specialty Phosphates EMEA. In 2003 he joined Johnson & Johnson at McNeil Consumer Healthcare as CFO. In 2004 he took on additional responsibilities as CFO of Ortho Women's Health and Urology and General Manager of McNeil Canada. In 2005 he was named President of Johnson & Johnson's Medical Products Canada and in 2006 he became President of Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc., a $4 billion business.
William U. Parfet, Non-Executive Chairman of the Board, said, "After a very thorough search process involving external and internal candidates, we are pleased to name Kevin Lobo as Stryker's President and Chief Executive Officer. He is a talented executive with a broad range of global experience and he knows our Company and industry extremely well. Since joining Stryker in 2011 he has proven to be a highly effective leader for our Orthopaedics Group, and he has won the confidence of employees, customers and the Board. We are excited about Stryker's future under Kevin and believe our shareholders and all stakeholders will benefit from his leadership."
Mr. Lobo said, "Stryker is a company with a proud history and a bright future. Since joining the Company last year, I have witnessed firsthand the commitment of our talented people as they work to enhance the lives of patients. It's a privilege to have the opportunity to lead this great Company, and I look forward to working with the Board and our people throughout the organization to maximize our strengths, build on our leadership position and create value for shareholders."
Curt R. Hartman, who has served as Stryker's Interim CEO since February of this year, has decided to pursue opportunities outside of Stryker, but has agreed to stay on as an Advisor to the CEO to assure a smooth transition as the Company conducts a search for a permanent CFO.
Mr. Parfet also stated, "On behalf of the entire Board, I would like to thank Curt Hartman for his many contributions to Stryker. In particular we are grateful for his leadership as Interim CEO over the last eight months. He has served the Company extremely well throughout his more than 20-year career, and time and again he has demonstrated his skill and commitment to the Company's success. From 1999 to 2008, he served as the President of the Instruments Division within our MedSurg Group and grew the global business from less than $300 million to over $1 billion. Beginning as CFO in 2008 he led the financial team with distinction while supporting nine business acquisitions. This included being the operational
executive responsible for the successful 2011 acquisition, integration and operational results of the Neurovascular business. We wish him all the best."
About Stryker
This press release contains information that includes or is based on forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law that are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: weakening of economic conditions that could adversely affect the level of demand for the Company's products; pricing pressures generally, including cost-containment measures that could adversely affect the price of or demand for the Company's products; changes in foreign exchange markets; legislative and regulatory actions; unanticipated issues arising in connection with clinical studies and otherwise that affect U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval of new products; changes in reimbursement levels from third-party payors; a significant increase in product liability claims; resolution of tax audits; changes in financial markets; changes in the competitive environment; the Company's ability to integrate acquisitions; and the Company's ability to realize anticipated cost savings as a result of workforce reductions and other restructuring activities. Additional information concerning these and other factors are contained in the Company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
Stryker is one of the world's leading medical technology companies and is dedicated to helping healthcare professionals perform their jobs more efficiently while enhancing patient care. The Company offers a diverse array of innovative medical technologies, including reconstructive, medical and surgical, and neurotechnology and spine products to help people lead more active and more satisfying lives. For more information about Stryker, please visit www.stryker.com.
Contacts
For investor inquiries please contact:
Katherine A. Owen, Stryker Corporation, 269-385-2600 or katherine.owen@stryker.com
For media inquiries please contact:
Yin Becker, Stryker Corporation, 201-831-5000 or yin.becker@stryker.com

October 1, 2012
Dear Dean:
It is with pleasure that I hereby confirm our employment offer for you to serve as our Interim Chief Financial Officer (CFO), reporting to the President and Chief Executive Officer, while we conduct a search for a permanent CFO. You will retain the role of Vice President, Corporate Secretary during the period you serve as Interim CFO. Upon completion of your service as the Interim CFO, you will continue to primarily serve as the Vice President, Corporate Secretary. As the Vice President, Corporate Secretary you will prospectively report directly to the Non-Executive Chairman of the Board with dotted line reporting to the Vice President, General Counsel.
Your effective date in the role of Interim CFO is October 1, 2012. Your salary as the Interim CFO will be increased using the annualized rate of $517,500, and will be prorated for the number of months you serve in the Interim CFO role. This additional salary will be paid semi-monthly. Applicable payroll deductions as required by State and Federal law will be withheld from your paycheck, along with any voluntary deductions that you authorize. At the end of the full month of completion of the Interim CFO role your salary will revert to that of your role as Vice President, Corporate Secretary ($256,500), subject to annual review for 2013.
You will be eligible for both a 2012 performance bonus as Vice President, Corporate Secretary ($76,950 at target) as well as a bonus for the Interim CFO role in 2012. The 2012 bonus for the Interim CFO role is guaranteed $97,031. Bonuses are paid in February following the respective bonus year period. Any award above the 100% potential is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and you must be employed on December 31, 2012 to receive any portion of this bonus.
In addition, on November 1, 2012 you will be granted stock awards (stock options and restricted stock units) having a combined grant date fair value of $256,500 as determined in accordance with Company practices. The grant price will be determined according to Stryker's stock plans, which require the grant price to be the closing price on the day prior to the grant date. The stock options will have a ten year term and vest 20% of the underlying shares on each of the first five anniversary dates of the date of grant. The vesting schedule for the RSUs is one-third of the underlying shares each February 21 for the next three years. You will be eligible for stock awards in future years based on the Vice President, Corporate Secretary role.
The incremental compensation described herein applies only to your period of service as Interim CFO and we will review your compensation should the interim period extend beyond 2012.
Other provisions of your employment relationship will continue in effect, meaning that you agree to continue to abide by the guidelines set forth in Stryker's Employee Handbook and the terms of the Stryker Confidentiality, Intellectual Property, Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Agreement. You also acknowledge that you are aware of Stryker's at-will employment relationship with you.
Congratulations Dean. To accept this offer, please sign this letter on the space provided below and return it to me by October 2, 2012.
Sincerely,
I accept this assignment as Interim CFO for Stryker and agree to the terms and conditions outlined in this letter:

2825 Airview Boulevard
Kalamazoo, MI 49002
September 28, 2012
Kevin Lobo
Group President, Orthopaedics
Stryker
325 Corporate Drive
Mahwah, NJ 07430
Dear Kevin:
This letter agreement (
Agreement
) sets forth the terms of your continuing employment with Stryker Corporation (the 
Company
).
1.
Effective Date; Employment as President and Chief Executive Officer
. Effective October 1, 2012 (
Effective Date
), you will be employed as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, reporting to the Board. You will continue to be an at-will employee for all purposes. As such, your employment may be terminated by the Company or by you at any time with or without prior notice. Your principal place of employment will be at the Company's headquarters in Kalamazoo, Michigan. On or about the Effective Date, you will be appointed as a member of the Board. Thereafter, while you are serving as Chief Executive Officer, the Board will nominate you for re-election as a member of the Board consistent with Board practices as and when your term as a director otherwise would expire. You agree to serve without additional compensation as a director of the Company and as an officer or director of any of the Company's subsidiaries.
2.
Base Salary
. Commencing on the Effective Date, you will be entitled to a base salary at an annual rate of $1,000,000, payable in accordance with the regular payroll practices of the Company. Your base salary will be reviewed annually by the Board (or a committee thereof) for any increase in the sole discretion of the Board (or committee).
3.
Annual Bonus
. For each fiscal year of your employment with the Company, you will continue to be eligible to participate in the Company's Executive Bonus Plan (the 
Bonus Plan
). You will have the opportunity to earn a target bonus under the Bonus Plan, measured against criteria to be determined by the Board (or a committee thereof), of 130% of your base salary;
provided
, your annual bonus for the 2012 fiscal year: (a) for the period of the fiscal year through September 30, will be based on your base salary, target bonus amount and goals applicable to you as Group President and will be prorated at 75% of the amount earned and (b) for the period of the fiscal year from October 1, will be based on your base salary, target bonus amount and goals applicable to you as Chief Executive Officer and prorated at 25% of amount earned. The amount earned under each of clause (a) and clause (b), if any, will be determined by the Board and will be payable in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Bonus Plan.
4.
Long-Term Incentive Compensation
. You will continue to be eligible to participate in the Company's long-term incentive plans in a manner consistent with awards to other senior executives granted from time to time. Your annual long-term incentive award to be granted during fiscal year 2013 will be for a grant date fair value of $6,000,000 (as determined in accordance with Company practices, and provided that you are employed by the Company on such date) and otherwise will be determined in accordance with the structure and terms of annual long-term incentive awards granted to other senior executives at such time. All long-term incentive awards thereafter will be determined and granted in the sole discretion of the Board (or a committee thereof).
5.
One-Time Promotion Awards
. On the Effective Date, you will be granted the following awards, as determined in accordance with Company practices:
(a)
An award of stock options having a grant date fair value of $2,000,000, an exercise price equal to the fair market value of one share of Company common stock as determined in accordance with the applicable long-term incentive plan on the grant date and will be subject to the same terms and conditions as (including a 20% per year annual vesting requirement), and which award will be set forth in a stock option award agreement that is substantially similar to, the annual award of stock options granted to senior executives during 2012.
(b)
An award of performance stock units having a target grant date fair value of $2,000,000, which award will be subject to the same terms and conditions as (including performance goals), and which award will be set forth in a performance stock unit award agreement that is substantially similar to, the annual award of performance stock units granted to senior executives during 2012.
(c)
An award of restricted stock units having a grant date fair value of $3,000,000, cliff vesting on the third anniversary of the Effective Date and otherwise having such terms and conditions as, and which award will be set forth in a restricted stock unit award agreement that is substantially similar to, the annual award of restricted stock units granted to senior executives during 2012.
6.
Employee Benefits; Policies
. You will continue to be entitled to participate in all employee benefit plans, perquisites and personal benefits (including participation in the Annual Executive Health Program) that the Company has adopted or may adopt, maintain or contribute to for the benefit of its senior executives at a level commensurate with your position.
You will be entitled to annual paid vacation in accordance with the Company's time off policy applicable to senior executives. You will continue to be subject to the Company's senior executive stock ownership policy, as may be in effect from time to time, but in the amount applicable to the Chief Executive Officer under such policy;
i.e.
, to acquire and hold shares of Company common stock having a value equal to five (5) times your prevailing base salary and for which you will have five (5) years from the Effective Date to accumulate thereunder.
7.
Relocation
. You will relocate your principal residence to the vicinity of the Company's headquarters in Kalamazoo, Michigan not later than October 1, 2013. You will be entitled to relocation benefits in accordance with the Company's US Domestic Mobility Policy applicable to senior executives.
8.
Restrictive Covenant Agreement
.
(a)
You will continue to be subject to the Confidentiality, Intellectual Property, Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Agreement previously entered into with the Company (
Restrictive Covenant Agreement
). The Restrictive Covenant Agreement will survive any termination of your employment.
9.
Arbitration
.
(a)
Excepting any claim for benefits under any employee benefit plan in which you are a participant (which claims shall be determined in accordance with the terms of such plan), to the fullest extent permitted by law, all claims that you may have against Company or which Company may have against you, in any way related to the subject matter, interpretation, application, or alleged breach of this Agreement (
Arbitrable Claims
) shall be resolved by binding arbitration in the state of Michigan. The arbitration will be held pursuant to the rules of the American Arbitration Association (applicable to commercial disputes). The decision of the arbitrator shall be in writing and shall include a statement of the essential conclusions and findings upon which the decision is based. Each party shall bear its own fees and expenses in connection with any such arbitration.
(b)
Arbitration shall be final and binding upon the parties and shall be the exclusive remedy for all Arbitrable Claims. Either party may bring an action in a Michigan court to compel arbitration under this Agreement and to enforce an arbitration award. Otherwise, neither party shall initiate or prosecute any lawsuit or administrative action in any way related to any Arbitrable Claim. Notwithstanding the foregoing, either party may, in the event of an actual or threatened breach of this Agreement (including but not limited to the provisions of the Restrictive Covenant Agreement), seek a temporary restraining order or injunction in a Michigan court restraining breach pending a determination on the merits by the arbitrator.
(c)
THE PARTIES HEREBY WAIVE ANY RIGHTS THEY MAY HAVE TO TRIAL BY JURY IN REGARD TO ARBITRABLE CLAIMS, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY AS TO THE MAKING, EXISTENCE, VALIDITY, OR ENFORCEABILITY OF THE AGREEMENT TO ARBITRATE.
10.
Forfeiture; Recoupment of Incentive Compensation
. All annual, long-term and other incentive compensation hereunder or pursuant to any plan, program or other agreement in which you are a participant or a party shall be subject to cancellation, forfeiture and recoupment by the Company, and shall be repaid by you to the Company, to the extent required by law, regulation or stock exchange listing requirement, or as may be required pursuant to any Company corporate governance guidelines or policies and to any similar or successor provisions as may be in effect from time to time.
11.
Section 409A
. Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding:
(a)
It is intended that any amounts payable under this Agreement, or otherwise, during your employment will either be exempt from or comply with Section 409A of the Code (
Section 409A
) and all regulations, guidance and other interpretive authority issued thereunder so as not to subject you to payment of any additional tax, penalty or interest imposed under Section 409A, and this Agreement will be interpreted on a basis consistent with such intent.
(b)
To the extent necessary to comply with the provisions of Section 409A, reimbursements to you in connection with your employment will be made not later than the end of the calendar year following the year in which the reimbursable expense is incurred and will otherwise be made in a manner that complies with the requirements of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A3(i)(l)(iv).
(c)
If you are a specified employee within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A -1(i) as of the date of your separation from service (within the meaning of Treas. Reg.
Section 1.409A-1(h)), then any payment or benefit on account of your separation from service, to the extent such payment constitutes non-qualified deferred compensation subject to Section 409A and required to be delayed pursuant to Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code (after taking into account any exclusions applicable to such payment under Section 409A), shall not be made until the first business day after (i) the expiration of six (6) months from the date of your separation from service, or (ii) if earlier, the date of your death (the 
Delay Period
). Upon the expiration of the Delay Period, all delayed payments and benefits will be paid or reimbursed to you in a lump sum and any remaining payments and benefits due you will be paid or provided in accordance with the normal payment dates specified for them herein. Respecting any amounts or benefits upon or following a termination of employment that are considered deferred compensation under Section 409A, references to your termination of employment (and corollary terms) with the Company shall be construed to refer to your separation from service (within the meaning of Treas. Reg. Section 1.409A-1(h)) with the Company.
12.
Miscellaneous
.
(a)
Entire Agreement; Amendments; No Waiver
. This Agreement supersedes all previous employment agreements, whether written or oral between you and the Company and constitutes the entire agreement and understanding between the Company and you concerning the subject matter hereof. If, and to the extent that, any other written or oral agreement between you and the Company is inconsistent with or contradictory to the terms of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall apply. No modification, amendment, termination, or waiver of this Agreement shall be binding unless in writing and signed by you and a duly authorized officer of the Company. Failure of the any party to insist upon strict compliance with any of the terms, covenants, or conditions hereof shall not be deemed a waiver of such terms, covenants, and conditions.
(b)
Successors and Assigns
. This Agreement is binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of you and your heirs, executors, assigns and administrators or your estate and the Company and its successors and permitted assigns. You may not assign or transfer to others the obligation to perform your duties hereunder. The Company may not assign this Agreement other than to a successor to all or substantially all of its business and then only upon such assignee's delivery to you of a written assumption of this Agreement.
(c)
Counterparts
. This Agreement may be signed in counterparts each of which will be deemed an original, but all of which will constitute one and the same instrument. This Agreement may be executed by a signature delivered by facsimile or in e-mail/PDF or other electronic format.
[Signatures are on the following page]
On behalf of the Company, I am delighted to extend this offer to serve as the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer and look forward to a continuing mutually rewarding relationship.


