FILE:SYK/SYK-8K-20120124160454.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
January 24, 2012
STRYKER CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]
    
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]
    
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]
    
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]
    
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Stryker Corporation issued a press release on January 24, 2012 announcing its fourth quarter and year end 2011 operating results. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
    
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

STRYKER REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR 2011 RESULTS
Fourth Quarter Highlights
Kalamazoo, Michigan  January 24, 2012  Stryker Corporation (NYSE:SYK) reported operating results for the fourth quarter and full year 2011:
Quarter Highlights
Full Year Highlights
Despite the challenging economic environment, our results for 2011 underscore the inherent strength afforded by our balanced diversification. We have built on the breadth of our sales footprint with the addition of several targeted acquisitions which further expand our product offering in the medical technology market, said Stephen P. MacMillan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.
Sales Analysis
Consolidated net sales of $2.2 billion and $8.3 billion increased 11.0% and 13.5% in the quarter and full year over the prior year, respectively. Net sales in the quarter grew by 5.7% due to increased unit volume and changes in product mix, 6.7% as a result of acquisitions, and 0.3% due to the favorable impact of foreign currency exchange rates on net sales, which were partially offset by an unfavorable impact of 1.7% due to changes in price.
Reconstructive net sales of $981 million increased 1.3% in the quarter over the prior year, as reported, and 0.7% in constant
currency, as higher shipments of trauma and extremities and hip implant systems, and sales growth through acquisitions, were offset by lower shipments of knee and other implant systems. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, Reconstructive net sales decreased 0.8% in constant currency over the prior year.
MedSurg net sales of $857 million increased 11.2% in the quarter over the prior year, as reported, and 11.1% in constant currency, driven by higher shipments of patient handling and emergency medical equipment, surgical equipment and surgical navigation systems, endoscopic and communications systems, and sales growth through acquisitions. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, MedSurg net sales increased 10.8% in constant currency over the prior year.
Neurotechnology and Spine net sales of $377 million increased 47.3% in the quarter over the prior year, as reported, and 46.8% in constant currency, primarily due to sales growth through acquisitions and higher shipments of neurotechnology products. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, Neurotechnology and Spine net sales increased 1.7% in constant currency over the prior year.
Earnings Analysis
Reported net earnings in the quarter includes the net benefit of the Ireland cost sharing settlement with the Internal Revenue Service and an associated adjustment to its uncertain tax positions of $99 million (net of taxes), restructuring and related charges of $60 million (net of taxes), and acquisition and integration related charges of $28 million (net of taxes) related to the Neurovascular, Orthovita, Memometal and Concentric acquisitions, including transaction costs, integration related costs and additional cost of sales for inventory sold in the quarter that was stepped up to fair value. The acquisition and integration related charges include $16 million of inventory "stepped up" to fair value that reduced reported gross profit margin from 67.3% to 66.6% in the quarter and from 67.9% to 66.2% in the full year. The acquisition and integration related charges including inventory step-up, transaction costs, integration-related charges and restructuring and related charges reduced reported operating income margin from 24.1% to 18.9% in the quarter and from 23.7% to 20.3% in the full year.
Excluding the impacts of the above items, adjusted net earnings
(2)
of $390 million and $1,448 million increased 5.1% and 9.0% in the quarter and full year over the prior year, respectively. Adjusted diluted net earnings per share
(1)
of $1.02 and $3.72 increased 9.7% and 11.7% in the quarter and full year over the prior year, respectively.
Net earnings of $401 million and $1,345 million increased 35.9% and 5.7% in the quarter and full year over the prior year, respectively. Diluted net earnings per share of $1.05 and $3.45 increased 41.9% and 8.2% in the quarter and full year over the prior year, respectively. Net earnings include the impact of the Stryker Biotech settlement with the Department of Justice that the Company announced on January 18, 2012.
During the quarter, Stryker repurchased 1.8 million shares at a cost of $83 million bringing total 2011 share repurchases to 11.8 million shares at a cost of $622 million.
2012 Outlook
The financial forecast for 2012 includes a constant currency sales increase of 3.5% to 6.5%. If foreign currency exchange rates hold near current levels, the Company anticipates net sales will be impacted positively or negatively by approximately 0.5% in the first quarter of 2012 and negatively impacted by approximately 0.5% to 1.5% for the full year of 2012. Excluding the expected impact of foreign currency and acquisitions, projected sales growth is 2% to 5%.
The Company projects 2012 adjusted diluted net earnings per share
(1)
to grow at double-digit levels over 2011. In 2012, the Company anticipates previously announced restructuring and related charges and acquisition and integration-related charges to reduce reported diluted net earnings per share by approximately $0.22.
Looking ahead to 2012, we see significant opportunities to leverage the considerable investments we've made in recent years to improve our quality, differentiate our sales footprint and capitalize on areas of innovation that will drive improved outcomes for patients and caregivers. We remain steadfast in our commitment to maximizing shareholder returns through solid top line growth, leveraged earnings gains and optimized capital allocation which includes M&A, share repurchases and dividends, commented Stephen P. MacMillan, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.
1) A reconciliation of reported diluted net earnings per share to adjusted diluted net earnings per share, a non-GAAP financial measure, and other important information, appears below.
2) A reconciliation of reported diluted net earnings to adjusted diluted net earnings, a non-GAAP financial measure, and other important information, appears below.
Conference Call on January 24, 2012
As previously announced Stryker will host a conference call on Tuesday, January 24, 2012 at 4:30 p.m., Eastern Time, to discuss the Company's operating results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2011 and provide an operational update.
To participate in the conference call dial 800-561-2693 (domestic) or 617-614-3523 (international) and enter the participant passcode
84284339
. A simultaneous webcast of the call will be accessible via the Company's website at www.stryker.com. The call will be archived on this site for 90 days.
A recording of the call will also be available from 7:30 p.m., Eastern Time, on Tuesday, January 24, 2012, until 11:59 p.m., Eastern Time, on Tuesday, January 31, 2012. To hear this recording you may dial 888-286-8010 (domestic) or 617-801-6888 (international) and enter the passcode
45833616
.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains information that includes or is based on forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities law that are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in such statements. Such factors include, but are not limited to: weakening of economic conditions that could adversely affect the level of demand for the Company's products; pricing pressures generally, including cost-containment measures that could adversely affect the price of or demand for the Company's products; changes in foreign exchange markets; legislative and regulatory actions; unanticipated issues arising in connection with clinical studies and otherwise that affect U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval of new products; changes in reimbursement levels from third-party payors; a significant increase in product liability claims; resolution of tax audits; changes in financial markets; changes in the competitive environment; the Companys ability to integrate acquisitions; and the Companys ability to realize anticipated cost savings as a result of workforce reductions and other restructuring activities. Additional information concerning these and other factors are contained in the Company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
Stryker is one of the worlds leading medical technology companies and is dedicated to helping healthcare professionals perform their jobs more efficiently while enhancing patient care. The Company offers a diverse array of innovative medical technologies, including reconstructive, medical and surgical, and neurotechnology and spine products to help people lead more active and more satisfying lives. For more information about Stryker, please visit
www.stryker.com
.
For investor inquiries please contact:
Katherine A. Owen, Stryker Corporation, 269-385-2600 or
katherine.owen@stryker.com
SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION - RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The Company supplements the reporting of its financial information determined under United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) with certain non-GAAP financial measures, including percentage sales growth in constant currency, adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted net earnings per share. The Company believes that these non-GAAP measures provide meaningful information to assist readers in understanding its financial results and assessing its prospects for future performance. Management believes percentage sales growth in constant currency, adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted net earnings per share are important indicators of the Company's operations because they exclude items that may not be indicative of or are unrelated to core operating results, and provide a baseline for analyzing trends in its underlying businesses. To measure percentage sales growth in constant currency, the Company removes the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates which affect the comparability and trend of sales. Percentage sales growth in constant currency is calculated by translating current year results at prior year average foreign currency exchange rates. To measure earnings performance on a consistent and comparable basis, the Company excludes certain items which affect the comparability of operating results and the trend of earnings. Because non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names. These adjusted financial measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for reported sales growth, net earnings and diluted net earnings per share, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures are an additional way of viewing aspects of the Company's operations that, when viewed with GAAP results and the below reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide a more complete understanding of the business. The Company strongly encourages readers to review its financial statements and publicly-filed reports in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure.
The following reconciles the non-GAAP financial measure adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted net earnings per share, with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, reported net earnings and diluted net earnings per share:


