FILE:PHM/PHM-8K-20030514142352.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): May 13, 2003 ------------ PULTE HOMES, INC. ----------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its Charter) Michigan 1-9804 38-2766606 - ---------------------------- -------------------- ---------------------- (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (IRS Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 100 Bloomfield Hills Parkway, Suite 300, Bloomfield Hills, Michigan 48304 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code (248) 647-2750 -------------- --------------------------------------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS On May 13, 2003, Pulte Homes, Inc. issued two press releases attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 announcing certain executive management changes. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS (c) EXHIBITS EXHIBIT NUMBER AND DESCRIPTION 99.1 Press release dated May 13, 2003 announcing the planned departure of President and Chief Executive Officer, Mark J. O'Brien, and the promotion of his successor, Richard J. Dugas, Jr., currently Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer to President and Chief Executive Officer, effective July 1, 2003. 99.2 Press release dated May 13, 2003 announcing the promotion of Roger A. Cregg, currently Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Leo J. Taylor, currently Senior Vice President -- Human Resources to Executive Vice President -- Human Resources.
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. PULTE HOMES, INC. Date: May 14, 2003 By: /s/ John R. Stoller -------------------------------------- Name: John R. Stoller Title: Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
INDEX TO EXHIBITS EXHIBIT NO. DESCRIPTION 99.1 Press release dated May 13, 2003 announcing the planned departure of President and Chief Executive Officer, Mark J. O'Brien, and the promotion of his successor, Richard J. Dugas, Jr., currently Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer to President and Chief Executive Officer, effective July 1, 2003. 99.2 Press release dated May 13, 2003 announcing the promotion of Roger A. Cregg, currently Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Leo J. Taylor, currently Senior Vice President -- Human Resources to Executive Vice President -- Human Resources.

EXHIBIT 99.1 [PULTE HOMES(TM) LOGO] FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: James Zeumer Pulte Homes, Inc. Vice President (248) 433-4597 email: jim.zeumer@pulte.com PULTE HOMES PRESIDENT AND CEO MARK J. O'BRIEN ANNOUNCES PLANS TO LEAVE THE COMPANY RICHARD J. DUGAS, JR., EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND COO, NAMED AS COMPANY'S NEXT PRESIDENT AND CEO ADDITIONAL MANAGEMENT PROMOTIONS ANNOUNCED BLOOMFIELD HILLS, MI, MAY 13, 2003 -- Pulte Homes (NYSE: PHM) announced today that Mark J. O'Brien will be ending his 21-year career with the Company as of June 30, 2003. The Company's Board of Directors has named Richard J. Dugas, Jr., Pulte Homes' Executive Vice President and COO, to be the Company's next President and CEO effective July 1, 2003. William J. Pulte, Company Founder, will retain his position as Chairman of the Board. "During my six years as part of the senior management team, the Company has tripled revenues to $7.5 billion and increased earnings per share by over 450%," said Mr. O'Brien. "It is gratifying to have been a part of the business and organizational growth during this period, capped off with the successful merger and integration of Del Webb. I am very proud of how well these two companies came together. With the task of integrating the organizations completed, it is time for me to seek different opportunities." Mr. O'Brien has been with Pulte Homes for 21 years and has served as President and CEO since 2001. Under his leadership, Pulte Homes' sales have increased to over $7.5 billion, while the Company successfully integrated its Del Webb acquisition. Today, Pulte Homes operates in 44 markets throughout the country and continues to implement its strategy of serving all the major buyer segments: first time, first move up, second move up and active adult. "Mark has done an outstanding job leading this Company through the challenging integration phase following the merger with Del Webb," said William J. Pulte. "I know I
speak for the entire Board in thanking him for his leadership during this process and for his contributions to the Company's success over his 21 year career." In a separate release, the Company also announced that Roger A. Cregg has been promoted to Executive Vice President. Mr. Cregg retains his title of Chief Financial Officer. Leo J. Taylor has also been promoted to Executive Vice President, Human Resources, having previously been Senior Vice President, Human Resources. "Mark leaves the Company in an excellent position to deliver strong financial and business results in 2003 and beyond," said Mr. Pulte. "He also leaves the Company in good hands as Richard Dugas has demonstrated the leadership skills and business acumen required to lead the organization for many years to come. Over his career with Pulte Homes, I have come to appreciate Richard's commitment to delivering a superior customer experience and exceptional business results. "In promoting Richard, Roger and Leo, the Board is recognizing and rewarding the contributions that these individuals have made and the critical role they will play as we continue to implement the long-term strategies the Company has in place." Since 1994, Mr. Dugas has served in a variety of management positions at Pulte Homes, and was most recently Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. Prior to joining the senior management team, he served as Coastal Region President with responsibility for the Company's Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee operations. In 2001, the Coastal Region was Pulte Homes' largest, with approximately 3,400 closings and $650 million in revenues. Mr. Dugas has also served as City President and Market Manager for the Pulte Homes Atlanta Division and as Process Improvement Vice President, where he was responsible for driving system-wide process improvement in two major national initiatives. Prior to joining Pulte Homes, Mr. Dugas worked for PepsiCo in process improvement and plant operational efficiency and at Exxon Company in a variety of marketing, retail and customer service functions. Mr. Dugas earned a Bachelor of Science in Marketing from Louisiana State University. About Pulte Homes Pulte Homes, Inc., (www.pulte.com) based in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, has operations in 44 markets across the United States. Under its Del Webb (www.delwebb.com) brand, the Company is also the nation's leading builder of active adult communities for people age 55 and older. Over its history, the Company has constructed more than 300,000 homes and has been named Builder of the Year for 2002 by Professional Builder magazine. Pulte Mortgage LLC is a nationwide lender committed to meeting the financing needs of Pulte Homes' customers by offering a wide variety of loan products and superior customer service. /Web site: http://www.pulte.com ###

EXHIBIT 99.2 [PULTE HOMES(TM) LOGO] FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: James Zeumer Pulte Homes, Inc. Vice President (248) 433-4597 email: jim.zeumer@pulte.com PULTE HOMES ANNOUNCES SENIOR MANAGEMENT PROMOTIONS BOARD PROMOTES ROGER A. CREGG AND LEO J. TAYLOR TO EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT BLOOMFIELD HILLS, MI, MAY 13, 2003 -- The Board of Directors of Pulte Homes (NYSE: PHM), the nation's largest homebuilder, announced today that Roger A. Cregg, the Company's Chief Financial Officer, has been promoted from Senior to Executive Vice President. The Board also promoted Leo J. Taylor to Executive Vice President, Human Resources, having previously been Senior Vice President, Human Resources. The promotions were part of several management changes intended to position the Company for continued growth and success in the future. In a separate release, the Company also announced that Mark J. O'Brien will be leaving the Company effective June 30, 2003, after a distinguished 21-year career with Pulte Homes. The Board of Directors has announced that Richard J. Dugas, Jr. will be named President and Chief Executive Officer effective July 1, 2003. Mr. Dugas had previously been Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. William J. Pulte, Founder of the Company, will continue in his role as Chairman of the Board. "Roger and Leo have demonstrated their strong leadership skills and both played critical roles in the merger and subsequent integration of Del Webb," said William J. Pulte. "Their promotions are recognition of the contributions they have made to the success of Pulte Homes and the critical role they will play leading the Company in the future." Mr. Cregg joined Pulte Homes in January 1998, as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. In his current position, he is responsible for the Company's accounting, treasury, tax, legal, information systems and related activities associated with Pulte Homes' day-to-day operations and long-term strategic objectives. Prior to joining Pulte Homes, Mr. Cregg was Executive Vice President and CFO of Zenith Electronics Corporation, where he was responsible for all financial activities, including treasury, corporate controller's office and strategic planning. He was also the Chief Financial Officer of Sweetheart Cup Company and has held various financial positions with Continental Can Company.
Mr. Cregg earned an MBA from the J.L. Kellogg Graduate School of Management at Northwestern University and holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting from Northeastern University. Mr. Taylor joined Pulte Homes in 1994 as Vice President of Human Resources for the Pulte Homes Central Group. He was promoted to the position of Vice President of Human Resources and Sales Development in 1997, in which position he was responsible for human resources, employee relations, benefits and compensation, training and development and staffing associated with Pulte Homes' day-to-day operations and long-term strategic objectives. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Taylor was Vice President of Employee Relations for Aetna Life and Casualty, where he was responsible for all Employee Relations, including employee development, training and strategic planning. He was also the Group Manager of Corporate Human Resources for Frito Lay, and has held various other roles within Frito Lay. Mr. Taylor earned his Master of Science in Industrial and Labor Relations and his B.A. in Political Science degrees from West Virginia University. About Pulte Homes Pulte Homes, Inc., (www.pulte.com) based in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, has operations in 44 markets across the United States. Under its Del Webb (www.delwebb.com) brand, the Company is also the nation's leading builder of active adult communities for people age 55 and older. Over its history, the Company has constructed more than 300,000 homes and has been named Builder of the Year for 2002 by Professional Builder magazine. Pulte Mortgage LLC is a nationwide lender committed to meeting the financing needs of Pulte Homes' customers by offering a wide variety of loan products and superior customer service. /Web site: http://www.pulte.com # # #


