FILE:PHM/PHM-8K-20050207164504.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On February 2, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Pulte Homes, Inc. approved the grant of shares of restricted stock pursuant to the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan and the Senior Management Annual Incentive Plan to the executive officers. Stock Option Grants were approved by the Compensation Committee at a previous meeting.
Restricted Stock and Stock Option Grant.
     The restricted stock awards vest three years from the grant date. The date of such restricted stock grant to Mr. Stoller was December 9, 2004. A form of the restricted stock agreement is attached as an Exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
     The Stock Option Grants are ten year non-qualified stock options, which vest over a four year period; 50% after two years, 75% after three years, and 100% after four years. A form of the stock option grant agreement is attached as an Exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 10.1 PULTE HOMES, INC. RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT Pulte Homes, Inc., a Michigan corporation (the "Company"), hereby grants to ___________ (the "Holder") as of _________ (the "Grant Date"), pursuant to the provisions of the Pulte Homes, Inc. Senior Management Annual Incentive Plan ("SM Plan") and the 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), a restricted stock award (the "Award") of ________ shares of the Company's Common Stock, $.01 par value ("Shares"), upon and subject to the restrictions, terms and conditions set forth below and Compensation Committee ("Committee") certification of SM Plan goal achievement for ________. Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings specified in the Plan. 1. Award Subject to Acceptance of Agreement. The Award shall be null and void unless the Holder shall (a) accept this Agreement by executing it in the space provided below and returning it to the Company and (b) if requested by the Company, execute and return one or more irrevocable stock powers to facilitate the transfer to the Company (or its assignee or nominee) of the Shares subject to the Award if Shares are forfeited pursuant to Section 4 hereof or if required under applicable laws or regulations. As soon as practicable after the Holder has executed this Agreement and, if requested by the Company, such stock power or powers, and returned the same to the Company, the Company shall cause to be issued in the Holder's name the total number of Shares subject to the Award. 2. Rights as a Stockholder. The Holder shall have the right to vote the Shares subject to the Award and to receive dividends and other distributions thereon unless and until such Shares are forfeited pursuant to Section 4 hereof; provided, however, that a dividend or other distribution with respect to such Shares (including, without limitation, a stock dividend or stock split), other than a regular cash dividend, shall be subject to the same restrictions as the Shares with respect to which such dividend or other distribution was made (and if the Holder shall have received such dividend or other distribution, the Holder shall deliver the same to the Company and shall, if requested by the Company, execute and return one or more irrevocable stock powers related thereto). 3. Custody and Delivery of Certificates Representing Shares. The Shares subject to the Award shall be held by the Company or by a custodian in book entry form, with restrictions on the Shares duly noted, until such Award shall have vested pursuant to Section 4 hereof, and as soon thereafter as practicable, subject to Section 5.3 hereof, the vested Shares shall be delivered to the Holder as the Holder shall direct. Alternatively, in the sole discretion of the Company, the Company shall hold a certificate or certificates representing the Shares subject to the Award until such Award shall have vested, in whole or in part, pursuant to Section 4 hereof, and the Company shall as soon thereafter as practicable, subject to Section 5.3 hereof, deliver the certificate or certificates for the vested Shares to the Holder and destroy the stock power or powers relating to the vested Shares delivered by the Holder pursuant to Section 1
hereof. If such stock power or powers also relate to unvested Shares, the Company may require, as a condition precedent to delivery of any certificate pursuant to this Section 3, the execution and delivery to the Company of one or more stock powers relating to such unvested Shares. 4. Vesting. (a) The Award shall vest (i) on the third anniversary of the Grant Date, or (ii) earlier pursuant to Section 4(b) or 4(d) hereof or in the event of a Change in Control (as defined in Section 4(f) hereof). (b) If the Holder's employment by the Company terminates by reason of retirement with the consent of the Company, or terminates by reason of the Holder's death or disability, the Award shall become fully vested as of the effective date of the Holder's termination of employment or the date of death, as the case may be. (c) If the Holder's employment by the Company is terminated by the Company for Cause, the portion of the Award which is not vested as of the effective date of the Holder's termination of employment shall be forfeited by the Holder and shall be transferred, without payment of any consideration to the Holder, to the Company (or its assignee or nominee). (d) If the Holder's employment by the Company terminates for any reason other than a reason specified in Section 4(b) or 4(c) hereof, the portion of the Award which is not vested as of the effective date of the Holder's termination of employment shall be forfeited by the Holder and shall be transferred, without payment of any consideration to the Holder, to the Company (or its assignee or nominee); provided, however, that the Committee may, in its discretion, make a determination that part or all of such unvested portion of the Award shall become fully vested as of the effective date of the Holder's termination of employment. (e) As used herein, "Cause" shall mean a determination by the Company that the Holder has (i) willfully and continuously failed to substantially perform the duties assigned by the Company or a Subsidiary with which the Holder is employed (other than a failure resulting from the Holder's disability), (ii) willfully engaged in conduct which is demonstrably injurious to the Company or any Subsidiary, monetarily or otherwise, including conduct that, in the reasonable judgment of the Company, does not conform to the standard of the Company's executives or employees, or (iii) engaged in any act of dishonesty, the commission of a felony, or a significant violation of any statutory or common law duty of loyalty to the Company or any Subsidiary. (f) As used herein, "Change in Control" shall mean: (1) the acquisition by any individual, entity or group (a "Person"), including any "person" within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), of beneficial ownership within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act, of 40% or more of either (i) the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Common Stock") or (ii) the combined voting power of the then outstanding securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Voting 2
Securities"); excluding, however, the following: (A) any acquisition directly from the Company (excluding any acquisition resulting from the exercise of an exercise, conversion or exchange privilege unless the security being so exercised, converted or exchanged was acquired directly from the Company), (B) any acquisition by the Company, (C) any acquisition by an employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company, (D) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of subsection (3) of this Section 4(f) or (E) any acquisition by any one or more of William J. Pulte, his spouse, any trust or other entity established for the benefit of either or both of such persons, or any charitable organization established by either or both of such persons ("Exempt Persons"); provided further, that for purposes of clause (B), if any Person (other than the Company, any one or more Exempt Persons or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company) shall become the beneficial owner of 40% or more of the Outstanding Common Stock or 40% or more of the Outstanding Voting Securities by reason of an acquisition by the Company, and such Person shall, after such acquisition by the Company, become the beneficial owner of any additional shares of the Outstanding Common Stock or any additional Outstanding Voting Securities and such beneficial ownership is publicly announced, such additional beneficial ownership shall constitute a Change in Control; (2) individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of such Board of Directors; provided that any individual who becomes a director of the Company subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by the vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be deemed a member of the Incumbent Board; and provided further, that any individual who was initially elected as a director of the Company as a result of an actual or threatened solicitation by a Person other than the Board of Directors for the purpose of opposing a solicitation by any other Person with respect to the election or removal of directors, or any other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any Person other than the Board of Directors shall not be deemed a member of the Incumbent Board; (3) the consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (a "Corporate Transaction"); excluding, however, a Corporate Transaction pursuant to which (i) all or substantially all of the individuals or entities who are the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Common Stock and the Outstanding Voting Securities immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction will beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of, respectively, the outstanding shares of common stock, and the combined voting power of the outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or indirectly) in substantially the same proportions relative to each other as their ownership, immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction, of the Outstanding 3
Common Stock and the Outstanding Voting Securities, as the case may be, (ii) no Person (other than: the Company; any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company; the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction; and any Person which beneficially owned, immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction, directly or indirectly, 40% or more of the Outstanding Common Stock or the Outstanding Voting Securities, as the case may be) will beneficially own, directly or indirectly, 40% or more of, respectively, the outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction or the combined voting power of the outstanding securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors and (iii) individuals who were members of the Incumbent Board will constitute at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction; or (4) the consummation of a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company. 5. Additional Terms and Conditions of Award. 5.1. Nontransferability of Award. Prior to the vesting of the Shares subject to the Award, such Shares may not be transferred by the Holder other than by will, the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to beneficiary designation procedures approved by the Company. Except to the extent permitted by the foregoing, such unvested Shares may not be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated, encumbered or otherwise disposed of (whether by operation of law or otherwise) or be subject to execution, attachment or similar process. 5.2. Investment Representation. The Holder hereby represents and covenants that (a) any Shares acquired upon the vesting of the Award will be acquired for investment and not with a view to the distribution thereof within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), unless such acquisition has been registered under the Securities Act and any applicable state securities law; (b) any subsequent sale of any such Shares shall be made either pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and any applicable state securities laws, or pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act and such state securities laws; and (c) if requested by the Company, the Holder shall submit a written statement, in form satisfactory to the Company, to the effect that such representation (x) is true and correct as of the date of acquisition of any Shares hereunder or (y) is true and correct as of the date of any sale of any such Shares, as applicable. As a further condition precedent to the delivery to the Holder of any Shares subject to the Award, the Holder shall comply with all regulations and requirements of any regulatory authority having control of or supervision over the issuance of the Shares and, in connection therewith, shall execute any documents which the Board or the Committee shall in its sole discretion deem necessary or advisable. 5.3. Withholding Taxes. (a) As a condition precedent to the delivery to the Holder of any Shares subject to the Award, the Holder shall, upon request by the Company, pay 4
to the Company such amount of cash as the Company may be required, under all applicable federal, state, local or other laws or regulations, to withhold and pay over as income or other withholding taxes (the "Required Tax Payments") with respect to the Award. If the Holder shall fail to advance the Required Tax Payments after request by the Company, the Company may, in its discretion, deduct any Required Tax Payments from any amount then or thereafter payable by the Company to the Holder or withhold shares. (b) The Holder may elect to satisfy his or her obligation to advance the Required Tax Payments by any of the following means: (1) a cash payment to the Company pursuant to Section 5.3(a), (2) delivery (either actual delivery or by attestation procedures established by the Company) to the Company of previously owned whole Shares (which the Holder has held for at least six months prior to the delivery of such Shares or which the Holder purchased on the open market and for which the Holder has good title, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances) having a Fair Market Value, determined as of the date the obligation to withhold or pay taxes first arises in connection with the Award (the "Tax Date"), equal to the Required Tax Payments, (3) authorizing the Company to withhold from the Shares otherwise to be delivered to the Holder pursuant to the Award, a number of whole Shares having a Fair Market Value, determined as of the Tax Date, equal to the Required Tax Payments, or (4) any combination of (1), (2) and (3). Shares to be delivered or withheld may not have a Fair Market Value in excess of the minimum amount of the Required Tax Payments. Any fraction of a Share which would be required to satisfy such an obligation shall be disregarded and the remaining amount due shall be paid in cash by the Holder. No certificate representing Shares shall be delivered until the Required Tax Payments have been satisfied in full. 5.4. Compliance with Applicable Law. The Award is subject to the condition that if the listing, registration or qualification of the Shares subject to the Award upon any securities exchange or under any law, or the consent or approval of any governmental body, or the taking of any other action is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the vesting or delivery of such Shares, the Shares subject to the Award shall not vest or be delivered, in whole or in part, unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained, free of any conditions not acceptable to the Company. The Company agrees to use reasonable efforts to effect or obtain any such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval. 5.5. Delivery of Certificates. Subject to Section 5.3, upon the vesting of the Award, in whole or in part, the Company shall deliver or cause to be delivered one or more certificates representing the number of vested Shares. The Company shall pay all original issue or transfer taxes and all fees and expenses incident to such delivery, except as otherwise provided in Section 5.3. 5.6. Award Confers No Rights to Continued Employment. In no event shall the granting of the Award or its acceptance by the Holder give or be deemed to give the Holder any right to continued employment by the Company or any affiliate of the Company. 5.7. Decisions of Board or Committee. The Pulte Homes, Inc Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee shall have the right to resolve all questions which may arise in connection with the Award. Any interpretation, determination or other action made or 5
taken by the Board or the Committee regarding the Plan or this Agreement shall be final, binding and conclusive. 5.8. Agreement Subject to the Plan. This Agreement is subject to the provisions of the Plan and the SM Plan and shall be interpreted in accordance therewith. The Holder hereby acknowledges receipt of a copy of the Plan and the SM Plan. 6. Miscellaneous Provisions. 6.1. Employment by Subsidiary. References in this Agreement to employment by the Company shall also mean employment by a Subsidiary. 6.2. Successors. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor or successors of the Company and any person or persons who shall, upon the death of the Holder, acquire any rights hereunder in accordance with this Agreement or the Plan. 6.3. Notices. All notices, requests or other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be made, if to the Company, to Pulte Homes, Inc., 100 Bloomfield Hills Parkway, Suite 300, Bloomfield Hills, Michigan 48304, Attention: SVP and General Counsel and if to the Holder, to the last known mailing address of the Holder contained in the records of the Company. All notices, requests or other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be made in writing either (a) by personal delivery, (b) by facsimile with confirmation of receipt, (c) by mailing in the United States mails or (d) by express courier service. The notice, request or other communication shall be deemed to be received upon personal delivery, upon confirmation of receipt of facsimile transmission, or upon receipt by the party entitled thereto if by United States mail or express courier service; provided, however, that if a notice, request or other communication is not received during regular business hours, it shall be deemed to be received on the next succeeding business day of the Company. 6.4. Governing Law. This Agreement, the Award and all determinations made and actions taken pursuant hereto and thereto, to the extent not otherwise governed by the laws of the United States, shall be governed by the laws of the State of Michigan and construed in accordance therewith without giving effect to conflicts of laws principles. 6.5. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in two counterparts each of which shall be deemed an original and both of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. PULTE HOMES, INC. By:___________________________________ Name:_________________________ Title:________________________ 6
Acknowledgment, Acceptance and Agreement: By signing below and returning this Agreement to Pulte Homes, Inc. at the address stated herein, I hereby acknowledge receipt of the Agreement, the Plan, and the SM Plan, accept the Award granted to me and agree to be bound by the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Plan and the SM Plan. __________________________________________ Holder 7

EXHIBIT 10.2 STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT TERM SHEET Under the Pulte Homes, Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan @Plan_Name (the "Plan"), __________("Employee") has been granted ________ non-qualified stock options to purchase the Option Shares listed below. Certain terms and conditions of the Option are set forth immediately below in this "Term Sheet". Other terms and conditions are set forth in the "Attachment" which is appended to this Term Sheet. The Term Sheet and the Attachment are together the "Agreement" which is made and entered into between Pulte Homes Corporation (formerly known as Pulte Corporation), a Michigan corporation ("Corporation"), and Employee as of the Grant Date. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Term Sheet are defined in the Plan or the Attachment, as the case may be. Grant Date: Number of Option Shares: Stock Option Price: Expiration Date: This Option shall expire on, and in no event may any portion of this Option be exercised after, _________ (i.e. the tenth anniversary of the Grant Date), except as otherwise provided in the Plan and the Attachment. Vesting and Exercise Schedule: This Option shall become vested and exercisable with respect to the Option Shares according to the following vesting and exercise schedule, except as otherwise provided in the Plan and the Attachment: - 50% of the Option Shares vest and become exercisable on the second anniversary of the grant date - 25% of the Option Shares vest and become exercisable on the third anniversary of the grant date - 25% of the Option Shares vest and become exercisable on the fourth anniversary of the grant date Employee acknowledges receipt of copies of the Attachment and the Plan (which are incorporated by reference and made a part hereof) and this Term Sheet and agrees to abide by all of the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Agreement. In witness whereof, the parties have executed the Agreement as of ____________ . PULTE HOMES, INC., a Michigan corporation By: ----------------------------------- Agreed and Accepted: Signature: ----------------------------------------
STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT ATTACHMENT THIS ATTACHMENT, together with the Term Sheet, constitute the Stock Option Agreement which is made and entered into as of the Grant Date between Pulte Homes, Inc. (formerly known as Pulte Corporation), a Michigan corporation ("CORPORATION"), and the employee listed in the Term Sheet ("EMPLOYEE"). Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in Section 17 below or the Term Sheet shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. RECITALS A. The Corporation previously established the Plan for certain key employees of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries selected by the Committee in its Discretion to be Participants in the Plan. B. The Plan provides that the Committee may in its Discretion grant one or more Options to Participants. C. The Committee has granted to the Employee an Option to acquire a certain number of Shares from the Corporation pursuant to the Plan and the Agreement. NOW, THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows: 1. THE PLAN. The Plan is hereby incorporated by reference and made part of the Agreement and the parties shall be bound by the terms and conditions of the Plan. The Employee hereby acknowledges receipt of a copy of the Plan. 2. GRANT. The Agreement hereby confirms that the Committee has granted the Employee an Option to purchase the Shares listed in the Term Sheet (each an "OPTION SHARE") in accordance with the Plan. 3. STOCK OPTION PRICE. The Stock Option Price for each Option Share is listed in the Term Sheet. 4. VESTING. (a) GENERALLY. Except as otherwise provided in the Plan or the Agreement, this Option shall automatically become vested and exercisable with respect to the Option Shares as set forth in the Term Sheet until the termination of this Option. 2
(b) CHANGE IN CONTROL. In the event of a Change in Control, this Option shall immediately vest and become exercisable on the date of such Change in Control with respect to all Option Shares until the termination of this Option. (c) AGE AND YEARS OF SERVICE EQUAL OR EXCEED SEVENTY YEARS. If the employment of the Employee with the Corporation or a Subsidiary, as applicable, terminates (other than for Cause) and the Seventy Year Rule is satisfied on or before the date of such termination, the employment of such Employee with the Corporation or such Subsidiary shall be treated as if it continued on a full-time basis for purposes of determining the vesting of this Option under this Section 4. (d) OTHER EMPLOYMENT TERMINATION. Except as provided by Section 4(b) and (c) above, in the event that the Employee shall cease being employed by the Corporation or a Subsidiary, as applicable, for any reason (including, but not limited to death, Permanent Disability or Cause) before the date on which any portion of this Option shall vest and become exercisable, such portion of this Option shall immediately terminate and never become exercisable with respect to any Option Shares. 5. EXERCISE PERIOD. (a) TEN YEAR PERIOD. Notwithstanding anything in the Agreement to the contrary, this Option shall terminate on, and in no event may this Option be exercised in whole or in part after the Expiration Date. (b) DEATH; PERMANENT DISABILITY. In the event that the Employee's employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary, as applicable, terminates because of the death or Permanent Disability of the Employee, this Option, to the extent vested and exercisable under the Agreement, shall remain fully exercisable until the Expiration Date. (c) FIVE YEARS OF SERVICE. In the event that the Employee has rendered at least five (5) Years of Service on or before the date on which the Employee's employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary, as applicable, terminates (other than for Cause), this Option, to the extent vested and exercisable under the Agreement, shall remain exercisable until the Expiration Date. (d) AGE AND YEARS OF SERVICE EQUAL OR EXCEED SEVENTY YEARS. If the employment of the Employee with the Corporation or a Subsidiary, as applicable, terminates (other than for Cause) and the Seventy Year Rule is satisfied on or before the date of such termination, the employment of such Employee with the Corporation or such Subsidiary shall be treated as if it continued on a full-time basis for purposes of determining the exercise of this Option under the Agreement. (e) OTHER EMPLOYMENT TERMINATION. In the event that the Employee's employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary, as applicable, terminates for any reason other than (i) for death, (ii) for Permanent Disability, (iii) after rendering five (5) Years of Service, (iv) after satisfying the Seventy Year Rule, or (v) for Cause, to the extent that this Option is vested 3
and exercisable under the Agreement on the date of such termination, this Option shall remain exercisable until the close of the three (3) month period beginning on the date of such event or until the Expiration Date, whichever is the shorter period. (f) TERMINATION FOR CAUSE. In the event that the Employee's employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary, as applicable, terminates for Cause before, on or after this Option becomes vested and exercisable under the Agreement, this Option shall automatically terminate and cease to be exercisable effective as of the close of the day before such event. 6. METHOD OF EXERCISE. (a) Subject to the limitations set forth in the Agreement, this Option may be exercised by the Employee: (i) by paying the Stock Option Price as follows: (A) in cash; (B) in previously owned whole Shares (for which the Employee has good title, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances) with an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to such Stock Option Price; (C) by authorizing the Corporation to retain whole Shares which would otherwise be issuable upon exercise of this Option having a Fair Market Value equal to such Stock Option Price; (D) in cash by a broker-dealer acceptable to the Corporation to whom the Employee has submitted an irrevocable notice of exercise; (E) in such other manner as the Committee in its Discretion shall determine; or (F) a combination of the methods described in clauses (A), (B), (C) and (D) above, and (ii) by executing such documents as the Corporation may reasonably request. (b) No Shares shall be issued upon exercise of this Option until the full Stock Option Price has been paid. 7. NONTRANSFERABILITY OF OPTION. This Option may not be transferred by the Employee other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. During the Employee's lifetime, this Option is exercisable only by the Employee or his guardian or legal representative, provided that, if so determined by the Committee in its Discretion, the Employee may, in a manner designated by the Committee, designate a beneficiary to exercise the rights of the Employee under this Option upon the death of the Employee. Absent such a designation, in case of death, such Option shall be exercisable by the executor, administrator or legal representative of the deceased Employee. Except as permitted by the foregoing, this Option may not be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of (whether by operation of law or otherwise) or subject to execution, attachment or similar process. Any attempted sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation or encumbrance, or other disposition of this Option shall be null and void. 8. INVESTMENT REPRESENTATION. The Employee hereby represents and covenants that, (a) any Option Shares purchased upon exercise of this Option will be purchased for investment and not with a view to the distribution thereof within the meaning of the Securities Act, unless such Option Shares have been registered under the Securities Act and any applicable 4
state securities laws; (b) any subsequent sale of any such Option Shares, unless the issuance thereof has been registered under the Securities Act and any applicable state securities laws, shall be made either pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and any applicable state securities laws, or pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act and such state securities laws; and (c) if requested by the Corporation, the Employee shall submit a written statement in form satisfactory to the Corporation, to the effect that such representation (i) is true and correct as of the date of purchase of any Option Shares hereunder or (ii) is true and correct as of the date of any sale of any such Option Shares, as applicable. As a further condition precedent to any exercise of this Option, the Employee shall comply with all regulations and requirements of any regulatory authority having control of, or supervision over, the issuance of the Option Shares and, in connection therewith, shall execute any documents which the Board of Directors or the Committee shall in its Discretion, deem necessary or advisable. 9. WITHHOLDING TAXES. (a) As a condition precedent to any exercise of this Option, the Employee shall, upon request by the Corporation, pay to the Corporation in addition to the purchase price of the Option Shares being purchased, such amount as the Corporation may be required, under all applicable federal, state, local or other laws or regulations, to withhold and pay over as income or other withholding taxes (the "REQUIRED TAX PAYMENTS") with respect to such exercise of this Option and any related exercise by the Employee of his rights under this Section 9. If the Employee shall fail to pay to the Corporation the Required Tax Payments after request by the Corporation, the Corporation or a Subsidiary, as applicable, through any of their respective officers may deduct any Required Tax Payments from any amount then or thereafter payable by the Corporation or such Subsidiary, as applicable, to the Employee. (b) The Employee may, at his or her election, satisfy his or her obligation to make the Required Tax Payments by any of the following means: (i) a cash payment to the Corporation in an amount equal to the Required Tax Payments; (ii) by surrendering to the Corporation previously owned whole Shares (for which the Employee has good title, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances) with an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to the Required Tax Payments; (iii) by authorizing the Corporation to retain from the Option Shares otherwise issuable to the Employee pursuant to the Employee's exercise of this Option a number of whole Option Shares with an aggregate Fair Market Value (less the aggregate Stock Option Price for such retained Shares) equal to the Required Tax Payments; (iv) a cash payment by a broker-dealer acceptable to the Corporation to whom the Employee has submitted an irrevocable notice of exercise; (v) by such other arrangements as the Committee in its Discretion shall determine; or (vi) any combination of the methods described in clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) above. Any fraction of a Share that would be required to satisfy such an obligation shall be disregarded and the remaining amount due shall be paid in cash by the Employee. 10. ADJUSTMENT. In the event of a stock split, stock dividend, combination of Shares or any other change in the Corporation's common stock, a dividend or other distribution payable in cash or property, or an exchange of Shares for other securities, reclassification, reorganization, liquidation or other similar event, the Committee shall make appropriate adjustments to either or both of (a) the number of Shares then remaining available to be issued under this Option or (b) 5
the Stock Option Price that will apply to such Option Shares so as to maintain the intended value of this Option. If any such adjustment would result in a fractional Share being available for purchase under this Option, such fractional Share shall be disregarded. The decision of the Committee regarding the amount and timing of any adjustment under this Section 10 shall be conclusive. 11. CHANGE IN CONTROL. In order to maintain the Employee's rights in the event of any Change in Control of the Corporation, the Committee, as constituted before such Change in Control, may in its Discretion take any one or more of the following actions: (a) provide for the acceleration of the vesting of this Option so that this Option may be exercised in full on or before a date fixed by the Committee; (b) provide for the repurchase of any such Option, in whole or in part, upon the Employee's request, for an amount of cash equal to the Fair Market Value (less the Stock Option Price) of the Option Shares that could have been purchased by the Employee upon the exercise of such Option had such Option been currently exercisable; (c) make such adjustment to any such Option as the Committee deems appropriate to reflect such Change in Control; or (d) cause any such Option to be assumed, or new rights substituted therefor, by the acquiring or surviving corporation after such Change in Control. The foregoing provisions shall be in addition to and shall not limit in any way the accelerated vesting provisions of Section 4(b) above in the event of such a Change in Control. 12. COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAW. This Option is subject to the condition that if the listing, registration or qualification of the Shares subject to this Option upon any securities exchange or under any law, or the consent or approval of any governmental body, or the taking of any other action is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the purchase or delivery of Shares hereunder, the Option may not be exercised, in whole or in part, unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained. The Corporation agrees to make every reasonable effort to effect or obtain any such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval. 13. NO RIGHTS AS COMMON STOCKHOLDER. The Employee shall not be entitled to any privileges of ownership with respect to the Option Shares unless and until purchased and delivered upon the exercise of this Option, in whole or in part, and the Employee becomes a stockholder of record with respect to such delivered Shares; and the Employee shall not be considered a stockholder of the Corporation with respect to any such Shares not so purchased and delivered. 14. NO RIGHTS TO CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT. Nothing in the Plan or in the Agreement shall confer upon any individual any right to continue in the employ of the Corporation or a Subsidiary for a specified period of time or interfere with the right of such Corporation or Subsidiary, as applicable, to terminate such employment at any time. 15. DECISIONS OF COMMITTEE. The Committee shall have the right to resolve all questions that may arise in connection with this Option or its exercise. Any interpretation, determination or other action made or taken by the Committee regarding the Plan or the Agreement shall be final, binding and conclusive. 6
16. CORPORATION TO RESERVE SHARES. The Corporation shall at all times prior to the expiration or termination of this Option reserve and keep available, either in its treasury or out of its authorized but unissued Shares, the full number of Shares subject to this Option from time to time. 17. DEFINITIONS. The following words and phrases, wherever capitalized, shall have the following respective meanings, unless the context otherwise requires: "AGREEMENT" shall have the meaning set forth in the Term Sheet. "ATTACHMENT" shall mean this Attachment. "ATTAINED AGE" shall mean the Employee's chronological age (not the Employee's age on the nearest birthday). "CAUSE" shall mean intentional or willful misconduct, gross neglect of duties or other material acts or omissions detrimental to the best interest of the Corporation or a Subsidiary. "CHANGE IN CONTROL" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events: (a) a change in control of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act or any successor provisions, regardless of whether the Corporation is then subject to such reporting requirement; or (b) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), other than William J. Pulte, is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Corporation representing 40% or more of the combined voting power of the Corporation's then outstanding securities; or (c) any change in the composition of the Corporation's Board of Directors resulting in a majority of the present directors not constituting a majority, provided that in making such determination, directors who were elected, or nominated for election, to the Corporation's Board of Directors with the affirmative votes of at least a majority of such present directors will be excluded; or (d) there shall be consummated: (i) any consolidation, reorganization or merger of the Corporation in which the Corporation is not the continuing or surviving corporation or pursuant to which Shares would be converted into cash, securities, or other property, other than a merger of the Corporation in which the holders of the Shares immediately prior to the merger have the same proportionate ownership of common stock of the surviving corporation immediately after the merger, or 7
(ii) any sale, lease, exchange, or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all, or substantially all, of the assets of the Corporation, or (iii) an approval by the shareholders of the Corporation of a plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation. "CODE" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any successor thereof. "CORPORATION" shall mean Pulte Homes, Inc. (formerly known as Pulte Corporation), a Michigan corporation, or any successor thereof. "DISCRETION" shall mean, in the sole discretion of the Committee with no requirement whatsoever that the Committee follow past practices, act in a manner consistent with past practices, or treat a key employee in a manner consistent with the treatment afforded other key employees with respect to the Plan. "EMPLOYEE" shall have the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph of this Attachment. "EXPIRATION DATE" shall have the meaning set forth in the Term Sheet. "FAIR MARKET VALUE" as of a specified date shall be determined by the Committee and may be determined by taking the mean between the highest and lowest quoted selling prices of the Shares on any exchange or other market on which the Shares shall be traded on such date, or if there are no sales on such date, on the next following day on which there are sales. "GRANT DATE" shall mean the date listed in the Term Sheet. "OPTION" or "OPTIONS" shall mean the right to purchase the Option Shares. "OPTION SHARE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2 of this Attachment. "PERMANENT DISABILITY" means sickness or disability extending for more than three consecutive months as a result of which the Employee is unable to perform his or her duties for the Corporation or a Subsidiary, as applicable, in the required and customary manner and a determination by the Corporation that such sickness or disability will continue for not less than an additional three months. The date of Permanent Disability shall be the date that the Corporation sends written notice to the Employee of such determination and of the termination of employment. "PLAN" shall mean the Plan listed in the Term Sheet. "REQUIRED TAX PAYMENT" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9(a) of this Attachment. 8
"SECURITIES ACT" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. "SEVENTY YEAR RULE" shall mean that the sum of (a) the Attained Age of the Employee (excluding fractional periods) and (b) the total number of Years of Service of the Employee (excluding fractional periods) equals or exceeds seventy (70) years. "SHARES" shall mean shares of the common stock of the Corporation. "STOCK OPTION PRICE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3 of this Attachment. "TERM SHEET" shall mean the term sheet which is appended to this Attachment and which has been executed by the Corporation and the Employee. "YEAR OF SERVICE" shall mean each twelve (12) month period (beginning with the date on which the Employee's employment with the Corporation or any Subsidiary commenced) during which the Employee was employed by the Corporation and/or any Subsidiary on a full-time basis; provided, however, that the Employee's employment with any corporation or other entity for periods before such corporation or other entity was acquired in whole or in part by the Corporation and/or any Subsidiary for acquisitions that occur after December 31, 2000 shall not be counted. 18. MISCELLANEOUS. (a) DESIGNATION AS NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION. The Option is hereby designated as not constituting an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Code Section 422. The Agreement shall be interpreted and treated consistently with such designation. (b) SUCCESSORS. The Agreement shall bind and inure to the benefit of any successor or successors of the Corporation and any person or persons who shall, upon the death of the Employee, acquire any rights hereunder. (c) ENTIRE UNDERSTANDING. The Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter of the Agreement and supersedes all prior agreements, written or oral, with respect thereto. The Agreement shall not be amended without the consent of each of the parties hereto. (d) GOVERNING LAW. The validity, interpretation and performance of the Agreement shall be controlled and constructed under the laws of the State of Michigan (without regard to the conflict of law principles). (e) JURISDICTION; SERVICE OF PROCESS. Any action or proceeding seeking to enforce any provision of, or based on any right arising out of, the Agreement shall be brought against the parties, as the sole and exclusive forum, in the courts of the State of Michigan in the County of Oakland, or in the United States District court for the Eastern District of Michigan, Southern Division, and each party consents to the jurisdiction of such courts (and of the 9
appropriate appellate courts) in any such action or proceeding and waives any objection to venue laid therein. (f) NOTICES. Any notice or other communication required or permitted under the Agreement shall be in writing and shall be delivered (i) by hand, (ii) by facsimile transmission (with confirmation of receipt from the sender's machine), (iii) by reputable overnight courier such as Federal Express, or (iv) by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid and shall be deemed given when so delivered by hand, delivered by facsimile transmission during normal business hours of the recipient party or reputable overnight courier or, if mailed, three days after the date mailed, as follows:
(i) If to the Corporation, at: Pulte Homes, Inc. 33 Bloomfield Hills Parkway Suite 200 Bloomfield Hills, MI 48304-2946 Attention: Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary With a copy to the Treasurer of the Corporation at the same address. (ii) If to the Employee, at the address contained in the Corporation's records.
Either party may from time to time change its address for purposes of the Agreement by giving notice specifying such change to the other party. (g) COUNTERPARTS. The Agreement may be executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and both of which, when taken together, shall constitute one and the same instrument. (h) FURTHER ASSURANCES. Each party agrees to execute such further instruments and documents and to do such further acts as may be reasonably requested by the other party to carry out the matters contemplated by the Agreement. (i) HEADINGS. Captions and headings used herein are for convenience only and are not a part of the Agreement and shall not be used in construing it. 10


