FILE:PHM/PHM-8K-20060427141357.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On April 26, 2006, Pulte Homes, Inc. issued a press release announcing earnings for the first quarter ended March 31, 2006. A copy of this earnings press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in Item 2.02 by reference.
Item 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the earnings press release incorporated in such Item 2.02, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
     - Pulte Homes, Inc. (NYSE: PHM) announced today record financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2006. First quarter income from continuing operations was a record $262.6 million, an increase of 21% over prior year first quarter income of $217.5 million. First quarter earnings from continuing operations of $1.01 per diluted share represents an increase of 22% over prior year earnings from continuing operations of $.83 per diluted share.
Bloomfield Hills, MI, April 26, 2006
     "We continue to implement initiatives in support of our core business strategies: market share expansion through diversification, operational excellence, people development and financial discipline," said Richard J. Dugas, Jr., President and CEO of Pulte Homes. "By focusing on these key business drivers, Pulte Homes delivered solid Q1 operating and financial results, while ending the quarter with a strong balance sheet and well positioned land pipeline. Based on our Q1 results and expectations that a soft landing is unfolding for the U.S. housing industry, we continue to target 2006 earnings of $6.00 to $6.25 per diluted share."
     For the quarter, Pulte's consolidated revenues were $3 billion, an increase of 18% over prior year revenues of $2.5 billion.
     First quarter revenues from homebuilding settlements increased 17% to $2.9 billion. Higher revenues for the period were the result of a 7% increase in closings to 8,602 homes, combined with a 9% increase in average selling price to $336,000. The higher average selling price resulted from favorable changes in the mix of houses closed combined with price increases realized during the quarter.
     First quarter homebuilding pretax income increased 5% to $377.6 million, compared with prior year first quarter homebuilding pretax income of $359.6 million.
 
     Land sales and related gross profit in the first quarter increased to $25.9 million and $4.8 million, respectively, compared with $24.2 million and $3.4 million, respectively, in the prior year. Land sales are an important part of Pulte Homes' overall land management strategy, but sales can fluctuate quarter-to-quarter depending upon the timing of individual land transactions.
     Net new home orders for the quarter were $3.7 billion (representing 10,725 homes), a decrease of 4% compared with prior year orders of $3.8 billion (representing 12,067 homes). The Company's ending backlog was valued at a record $7.1 billion, compared with a value of $6.5 billion last year.
     The Company's financial services operations reported first quarter pretax income of $49.3 million, compared with prior year pretax income of $10.1 million. Financial services pretax income for the period benefited from a 7% increase in originations to 8,091 loans, with a value of $1.7 billion. In addition, first quarter results reflect a gain of approximately $31.6 million from the previously announced sale by Pulte Mortgage LLC of its investment in a Mexico-based mortgage-banking company.
     Subsequent to the close of Pulte's first quarter, the Company also announced that Standard & Poor's Ratings Services raised its corporate credit rating on Pulte Homes' senior notes to BBB' from BBB-'. The outlook was revised to stable from positive. In discussing the reasons for the ratings change, S&P said, "The upgrade acknowledges Pulte's leading market position in the consolidating homebuilding industry, a lowly leveraged balance sheet, and ample liquidity."
     "We are very pleased with this ratings upgrade from S&P and the recognition of Pulte's improved financial performance," said Roger A. Cregg, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Pulte Homes. "Financial discipline, along with market share growth, operational excellence and people development, remain at the core of Pulte's operating philosophy."
     A conference call discussing Pulte's first quarter results and its recent ratings upgrade will be held Thursday, April 27, 2006 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time, and web cast live via Pulte.com. Interested investors can access the call via the Company's home page at .
www.pulte.com
     
Certain statements in this release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among other things, (1) general economic and business conditions; (2) interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; (3) the relative stability of debt and equity markets; (4) competition; (5) the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by the Company in its homebuilding operations; (6) the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with our business; (7) shortages and the cost of labor; (8) weather related slowdowns; (9) slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; (10) governmental regulation, including the interpretation of tax, labor and environmental laws; (11) changes in consumer confidence and preferences; (12) required accounting changes; (13) terrorist acts and other acts of war; and (14) other factors over which the Company has little or no control. All forward-looking statements made are made as of the date hereof, and the risk that actual results will differ materially from expectations will increase with the passage of time. See our Annual Report on
Form 10-K
and Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2005 and our other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to our business. Pulte undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in Pulte's expectations.
 
About Pulte Homes
     Pulte Homes, Inc., (NYSE: PHM), based in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., is a FORTUNE 150 company with operations in 53 markets and 27 states. In 2005, the company delivered 45,630 homes in the U.S. and generated consolidated revenues of $14.7 billion. During its 56-year history, the company has constructed more than 450,000 homes. In 2005, Pulte Homes received the most awards in the J.D. Power and Associates New Home-Builder Customer Satisfaction Study(sm), marking the sixth-straight year Pulte achieved this distinction among America's largest homebuilding companies. Under its Del Webb brand, Pulte is the nation's largest builder of active adult communities for people age 55 and better. Its DiVosta brand is renowned in Florida for its Built Solid building system and distinctive master-planned communities featuring a town-center concept. Pulte Mortgage LLC is a nationwide lender and offers Pulte customers a wide variety of loan products and superior customer service.
Websites:
www.pulte.com; www.delwebb.com; www.divosta.com
 
 
 
 
 


