FILE:PHM/PHM-8K-20060803155944.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     Unrestricted Stock and Stock Option Grant. On July 28, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Pulte Homes, Inc. approved the grant of shares to the Company's non-employee directors, of unrestricted stock pursuant to the Stock Award Agreement and stock options pursuant to the Stock Option Agreement Under 2004 Stock Incentive Plan.
     The unrestricted stock award vests at the date of grant. A form of the stock award agreement for unrestricted shares is attached as an Exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
     The stock option award vests at the date of grant. A form of the stock option grant agreement is attached as an Exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
[NONEMPLOYEE DIRECTOR]
          Pursuant to the provisions of the Pulte Homes, Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), the individual named in the Grant Acceptance (the "Holder") has been granted an Unrestricted Stock Award (the "Award") of the number of shares of common stock, $.01 par value, of Pulte Homes, Inc., a Michigan corporation (the "Company") set forth in the Grant Acceptance (the "Shares"). The Award is subject to the terms and conditions set forth below. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. This Agreement, together with the Grant Acceptance, constitute the Stock Award Agreement which is made and entered into as of the grant date set forth in the Grant Acceptance (the "Grant Date").
          1.      . The Award shall be null and void unless the Holder shall accept this Agreement in the manner prescribed by the Company.
Award Subject to Acceptance of Agreement
          2.      .
Additional Terms and Conditions of Award
          2.1.      . The Holder hereby represents and covenants that (a) the Shares acquired pursuant to this Award will be acquired for investment and not with a view to the distribution thereof within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), unless such acquisition has been registered under the Securities Act and any applicable state securities law; (b) any subsequent sale of the Shares shall be made either pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and any applicable state securities laws, or pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act and such state securities laws; and (c) if requested by the Company, the Holder shall submit a written statement, in form satisfactory to the Company, to the effect that such representation is true and correct as of the date of any sale of the Shares. As a further condition precedent to the delivery to the Holder of any Shares subject to the Award, the Holder shall comply with all regulations and requirements of any regulatory authority having control of or supervision over the issuance of the Shares and, in connection therewith, shall execute any documents which the Board or the Committee shall in its sole discretion deem necessary or advisable.
Investment Representation
          2.2.      . The Award is subject to the condition that if the listing, registration or qualification of the Shares subject to the Award upon any securities exchange or under any law, or the consent or approval of any governmental body, or the taking of any other action is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the delivery of such Shares, the Shares subject to the Award shall not be delivered, in whole or in part, unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained, free of any conditions not acceptable to the Company. The Company agrees to use reasonable efforts to effect or obtain any such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval.
Compliance with Applicable Law
          2.3.      . The Company shall deliver or cause to be delivered the Shares. The Company shall pay all original issue or transfer taxes and all fees and expenses incident to such delivery.
Delivery of Shares
 
          2.4.      . In no event shall the granting of the Award or its acceptance by the Holder give or be deemed to give the Holder any right to continued service as a director of the Company.
Award Confers No Rights to Continued Service
          2.5.      . The Board or the Committee shall have the right to resolve all questions which may arise in connection with the Award. Any interpretation, determination or other action made or taken by the Board or the Committee regarding the Plan or this Agreement shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Decisions of Board or Committee
          2.6.      . This Agreement is subject to the provisions of the Plan and shall be interpreted in accordance therewith. The Holder hereby acknowledges receipt of a copy of the Plan.
Agreement Subject to the Plan
          3.      .
Miscellaneous Provisions
          3.1.      . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor or successors of the Company and any person or persons who shall, upon the death of the Holder, acquire any rights hereunder in accordance with this Agreement or the Plan.
Successors
          3.2.      . All notices, requests or other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be made, if to the Company, to Pulte Homes, Inc., 100 Bloomfield Hills Parkway, Suite 300, Bloomfield Hills, Michigan 48304, Attention: Vice President and General Counsel and if to the Holder, to the last known mailing address of the Holder contained in the records of the Company. All notices, requests or other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be made in writing either (a) by personal delivery, (b) by facsimile with confirmation of receipt, (c) by mailing in the United States mails or (d) by express courier service. The notice, request or other communication shall be deemed to be received upon personal delivery, upon confirmation of receipt of facsimile transmission, upon receipt by the party entitled thereto if by express courier service, or five days after the date mailed if by United States mails; provided, however, that if a notice, request or other communication is not received during regular business hours, it shall be deemed to be received on the next succeeding business day of the Company.
Notices
          3.3.      . This Agreement, the Award and all determinations made and actions taken pursuant hereto and thereto, to the extent not otherwise governed by the laws of the United States, shall be governed by the laws of the State of Michigan and construed in accordance therewith without giving effect to conflicts of laws principles.
Governing Law
          3.4.      . This Agreement may be executed in two counterparts each of which shall be deemed an original and both of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
          3.5.      . This Agreement, the Grant Acceptance and the Plan contain the entire understanding of the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior agreements, written or oral, with respect thereto.
Entire Understanding
 
          3.6.      . Any action or proceeding seeking to enforce any provision of, or based on any right arising out of, the Agreement shall be brought against the parties, as the sole and exclusive forum, in the courts of the State of Michigan in the County of Oakland, or in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan, Southern Division, and each party consents to the jurisdiction of such courts (and of the appropriate appellate courts) in any such action or proceeding and waives any objection to venue laid therein.
Jurisdiction; Service of Process

 
Exhibit 10.2
NONEMPLOYEE DIRECTORS
          Pursuant to the provisions of the Pulte Homes, Inc. 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), the individual named in the Grant Acceptance (the "Optionee") has been granted a non-qualified option (the "Option") to purchase the number of shares of common stock, $.01 par value, of Pulte Homes, Inc., a Michigan corporation (the "Company") ("Common Stock") set forth in the Grant Acceptance at the price per share set forth in the Grant Acceptance (the "Exercise Price"), subject to adjustment as provided herein and in the Plan. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. This Agreement, together with the Grant Acceptance, constitute the Stock Option Agreement which is made and entered into as of the grant date set forth in the Grant Acceptance (the "Grant Date").
          1.      . The Option shall be null and void unless the Optionee shall accept this Agreement in the manner prescribed by the Company.
Option Subject to Acceptance of Agreement
          2.      .
Time and Manner of Exercise of Option
          2.1.      . Except to the extent earlier exercised, this Option shall expire on, and in no event may any portion of the Option be exercised after, the tenth anniversary of the Grant Date (the "Expiration Date").
Maximum Term of Option
          2.2.      . The Option shall vest and become exercisable as set forth in the Grant Acceptance. If the Optionee ceases to be a Non-Employee Director of the Company for any reason, the Option may thereafter be exercised by the Optionee (or the Optionee's legal representative or similar person) until and including the Expiration Date, as of which date the Option shall terminate.
Exercise of Option
          2.3.      . Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, the Option may be exercised by the Optionee (1) by giving written notice to the Company specifying the number of whole shares of Common Stock to be purchased, accompanied by payment therefor in full (or arrangement made for such payment to the Company's satisfaction) either (A) in cash, (B) by delivery to the Company (either actual delivery or by attestation procedures established by the Company) of Mature Shares having an aggregate Fair Market Value, determined as of the date of exercise, equal to the aggregate purchase price payable pursuant to the Option by reason of such exercise, (C) except as may be prohibited by applicable law, in cash by a broker-dealer acceptable to the Company to whom the Optionee has submitted an irrevocable notice of exercise or (D) a combination of (A) and (B), and (2) by executing such documents as the Company may reasonably request. Any fraction of a share of Common Stock which would be required to pay such purchase price shall be disregarded and the remaining amount due shall be paid in cash by the Optionee. No certificate representing a share of Common Stock shall be delivered until the full purchase price therefor has been paid (or arrangement made for such payment to the Company's satisfaction).
Method of Exercise
 
          2.4.      . In no event may the Option be exercised after it terminates as set forth in this Section 2.4. The Option shall terminate, to the extent not exercised pursuant to Section 2.3 on the Expiration Date.
Termination of Option
          3.      .
Additional Terms and Conditions of Option
          3.1.      . The Option may not be transferred by the Optionee other than (i) by will or the laws of descent and distribution, or (ii) pursuant to beneficiary designation procedures approved by the Company. Except to the extent permitted by the foregoing sentence, during the Optionee's lifetime the Option is exercisable only by the Optionee or the Optionee's legal representative. Except to the extent permitted by the foregoing, the Option may not be sold, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated, encumbered or otherwise disposed of (whether by operation of law or otherwise) or be subject to execution, attachment or similar process.
Nontransferability of Option
          3.2.      . The Optionee hereby represents and covenants that (a) any shares of Common Stock purchased upon exercise of the Option will be purchased for investment and not with a view to the distribution thereof within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), unless such purchase of shares of Common Stock has been registered under the Securities Act and any applicable state securities laws; (b) any subsequent sale of any such shares of Common Stock shall be made either pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and any applicable state securities laws, or pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act and such state securities laws; and (c) if requested by the Company, the Optionee shall submit a written statement, in form satisfactory to the Company, to the effect that such representation (x) is true and correct as of the date of purchase of any shares of Common Stock hereunder or (y) is true and correct as of the date of any sale of any such shares of Common Stock, as applicable. As a further condition precedent to any exercise of the Option, the Optionee shall comply with all regulations and requirements of any regulatory authority having control of or supervision over the issuance or delivery of the shares of Common Stock and, in connection therewith, shall execute any documents which the Board or the Committee shall in its sole discretion deem necessary or advisable.
Investment Representation
          3.3.      . In the event of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, combination, exchange of shares, liquidation, spin-off or other similar change in capitalization or event, or any distribution to holders of Common Stock other than a regular cash dividend, the number and class of securities subject to the Option and the purchase price per security shall be appropriately adjusted by the Committee without an increase in the aggregate purchase price. If any adjustment would result in a fractional security being subject to the Option, the Company shall pay the Optionee, in connection with the first exercise of the Option occurring after such adjustment, an amount in cash determined by multiplying (i) the fraction of such security (rounded to the nearest hundredth) by (ii) the excess, if any, of (A) the Fair Market Value on the exercise date over (B) the exercise price of the Option. The decision of the Committee regarding any such adjustment shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Adjustment
 
          3.4.      . The Option is subject to the condition that if the listing, registration or qualification of the shares of Common Stock subject to the Option upon any securities exchange or under any law, or the consent or approval of any governmental body, or the taking of any other action is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the purchase or delivery of shares of Common Stock hereunder, the Option may not be exercised, in whole or in part, unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained, free of any conditions not acceptable to the Company. The Company agrees to use reasonable efforts to effect or obtain any such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval.
Compliance with Applicable Law
          3.5.      . Upon the exercise of the Option, in whole or in part, the Company shall deliver or cause to be delivered the number of shares of Common Stock purchased against full payment therefore. The Company shall pay all original issue or transfer taxes and all fees and expenses incident to such delivery.
Delivery of Shares
          3.6.      . The Optionee shall not be entitled to any privileges of ownership with respect to shares of Common Stock subject to the Option unless and until purchased and delivered upon the exercise of the Option, in whole or in part, and the Optionee becomes a stockholder of record with respect to such delivered shares; and the Optionee shall not be considered a stockholder of the Company with respect to any such shares of Common Stock not so purchased and delivered.
Option Confers No Rights as Stockholder
          3.7.      . In no event shall the granting of the Option or its acceptance by the Optionee give or be deemed to give the Optionee any right to continued service as a director of the Company.
Option Confers No Rights to Continued Service
          3.8.      . The Board or the Committee shall have the right to resolve all questions which may arise in connection with the Option or its exercise. Any interpretation, determination or other action made or taken by the Board or the Committee regarding the Plan or this Agreement shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Decisions of Board or Committee
          3.9.      . The Company shall at all times prior to the expiration or termination of the Option reserve and keep available, either in its treasury or out of its authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock, the full number of shares of Common Stock subject to the Option from time to time.
Company to Reserve Shares
          3.10.      . This Agreement is subject to the provisions of the Plan and shall be interpreted in accordance therewith. The Optionee hereby acknowledges receipt of a copy of the Plan.
Agreement Subject to the Plan
          4.      .
Miscellaneous Provisions
          4.1.      . The Option is hereby designated as not constituting an "incentive stock option" within meaning of section 422 of the Code; this Agreement shall be interpreted and treated consistently with such designation.
Designation as Nonqualified Stock Option
          4.2.      . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor or successors of the Company and any person or persons who shall,
Successors
 
upon the death of the Optionee, acquire any rights hereunder in accordance with this Agreement or the Plan.
          4.3.      . All notices, requests or other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be made, if to the Company, to Pulte Homes, Inc., 100 Bloomfield Hills Parkway, Suite 300, Bloomfield Hills, MI 48304, Attention: Vice President and General Counsel and if to the Optionee, to the last known mailing address of the Optionee contained in the records of the Company. All notices, requests or other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be made in writing either (a) by personal delivery, (b) by facsimile with confirmation of receipt, (c) by mailing in the United States mails or (d) by express courier service. The notice, request or other communication shall be deemed to be received upon personal delivery, upon confirmation of receipt of facsimile transmission, upon receipt by the party entitled thereto if by express courier service, or five days after the date mailed if by United States mails; provided, however, that if a notice, request or other communication is not received during regular business hours, it shall be deemed to be received on the next succeeding business day of the Company.
Notices
          4.4.      . This Agreement, the Option and all determinations made and actions taken pursuant hereto and thereto, to the extent not governed by the laws of the United States, shall be governed by the laws of the State of Michigan and construed in accordance therewith without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws.
Governing Law
          4.5.      . This Agreement may be executed in two counterparts each of which shall be deemed an original and both of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
          4.6.      . This Agreement, the Grant Acceptance and the Plan contain the entire understanding of the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior agreements, written or oral, with respect thereto.
Entire Understanding
          4.7.      . Any action or proceeding seeking to enforce any provision of, or based on any right arising out of, the Agreement shall be brought against the parties, as the sole and exclusive forum, in the courts of the State of Michigan in the County of Oakland, or in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan, Southern Division, and each party consents to the jurisdiction of such courts (and of the appropriate appellate courts) in any such action or proceeding and waives any objection to venue laid therein.
Jurisdiction; Service of Process


