FILE:PHM/PHM-8K-20081125094316.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 24, 2008, Pulte Homes, Inc.(the "Company") issued a press release announcing that the Company's Board of Directors had declared its regular cash dividend for the fourth quarter of 2008 and discontinued the regular quarterly dividend on the Company's common stock effective the first quarter of 2009. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 Pulte Homes, Inc. (NYSE:PHM) announced today that its Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $.04 per share on the Company's common stock payable January 2, 2009, to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 22, 2008.
BLOOMFIELD HILLS, Mich., Nov. 24, 2008
Due to an ongoing decline in economic conditions, the Board has discontinued the regular quarterly dividend on the Company's common stock beginning with the first quarter of 2009. This action is in line with the Company's objective of conserving cash as it continues to navigate through a very difficult business environment.
About Pulte Homes
Pulte Homes, Inc., (NYSE: PHM), based in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., is one of America's largest home building companies with operations in 50 markets and 27 states. During its 58-year history, the company has delivered more than 500,000 new homes. Since 2000, Pulte Homes operations have earned more top-three finishes than any other homebuilder in the annual J.D. Power and Associates New Home-Builder Customer Satisfaction Study
sm
. Under its Del Webb brand, Pulte is the nation's largest builder of active adult communities for people age 55 and older. Its DiVosta Homes brand is renowned in Florida for its Built Solid building system and distinctive master-planned communities. Pulte Mortgage LLC is a nationwide lender offering Pulte customers a wide variety of loan products and superior service.
Websites: ; ;
www.pulte.com
www.delwebb.com
www.divosta.com


