FILE:PHM/PHM-8K-20080220172857.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement
On February 15, 2008, Pulte Homes, Inc. (the "Company") entered into the Second Amendment to Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the "Amendment"). The Amendment was entered into by and among the Company, the lenders, guarantors, administrative agent and others listed therein, with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. serving as Administrative Agent. The Amendment amended the Company's revolving credit facility to decrease the borrowing capacity from $1.86 billion to $1.6 billion and to adjust the required tangible net worth minimum to exclude the effects of any deferred tax asset valuation allowances.
A copy of the Second Amendment is filed as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibit 10(a) Second Amendment to Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated February 15, 2008.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 10(a)
          This SECOND AMENDMENT TO THIRD AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT ("Amendment"), dated as of February 15, 2008, among PULTE HOMES, INC., a Michigan corporation (the "Borrower"), the Lenders that are identified on the signature pages hereto and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent (the "Administrative Agent").
          WHEREAS, the Borrower, the Lenders identified on the signature pages hereto, certain other Lenders and Administrative Agent are parties to that certain Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of June 20, 2007 (as amended by First Amendment to Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated November 21, 2007 and as it may be further amended, renewed and restated from time to time, the "Credit Agreement") (all capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meanings given such terms in the Credit Agreement);
          WHEREAS, the Borrower and the Lenders desire to amend the Credit Agreement for the purposes hereinafter set forth;
          NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
     1. . Effective as of the date hereof, the Aggregate Commitment is hereby reduced to $1,600,000,000 and of the Credit Agreement is amended and restated in its entirety and replaced by attached hereto.
Aggregate Commitment
Schedule 1.1(a)
Schedule 1.1(a)
     2. . (a) The following definition in Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Definitions
     "" means, as of any date, the ratio (stated as a percentage) of (a) Indebtedness of the Credit Parties (other than to the REITs, provided such REIT has complied with ) (i) 50% of Qualified Subordinated Debt and (ii) all Unrestricted Cash held by the Credit Parties in excess of $25,000,000 but not to exceed $300,000,000 to (b) Capitalization.
Debt to Capitalization Ratio
Section 6.1(h)
less
     (b) The following defined terms are added to Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement:
     "" means any valuation allowance applied to deferred tax assets as determined in accordance with GAAP and shown on the financial statements of the Borrower.
Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance
     "" means cash and Cash Equivalents of the Credit Parties that are free and clear of all Liens (other than Liens securing the Credit Party Obligations) and not subject to any restrictions on the use thereof to pay Indebtedness and other obligations of the Credit Parties.
Unrestricted Cash
 
     3. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Section 5.2(a) of the Credit Agreement, if the first fiscal quarter of the Borrower in which the Permitted Debt to Capitalization Ratio would, pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.2(a)(i), decrease is either the first or second fiscal quarter of 2008 (such quarter, whether the first or second quarter of 2008, but not both, being the ""), such decrease shall not occur with respect to the Affected Quarter, and the Permitted Debt to Capitalization Ratio shall remain unchanged until the first fiscal quarter (if any) after the Affected Quarter in which the Permitted Debt to Capitalization Ratio would decrease pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.2(a)(i).
Permitted Debt to Capitalization Ratio
Affected Quarter
     4. . of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
Tangible Net Worth
Section 5.2(b)
     (b) . As of the last day of each fiscal quarter of the Borrower (beginning with the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2007), Tangible Net Worth shall be greater than or equal to the following (the "Minimum Tangible Net Worth"): the sum of (i) $4,000,000,000, plus (ii) 50% of the cumulative Net Income of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (without deduction for losses and excluding the effect of any decrease in any Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance) earned for each completed fiscal quarter subsequent to December 31, 2007 to the date of determination, minus (iii) the cumulative net amount of any Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance as of the date of determination; provided, however, that in no event shall the Minimum Tangible Net Worth be less than $2,900,000,000.
Tangible Net Worth
     5. . This Amendment shall be effective as of the date ("Amendment Effective Date") upon which the following conditions are satisfied:
Conditions Precedent
     (a) The Administrative Agent shall have received from the Borrower and the Required Lenders a counterpart of this Amendment signed on behalf of each such party.
     (b) The Administrative Agent shall have received from the Guarantors the Consent and Agreement substantially in the form attached hereto as .
Exhibit A
     (c) The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization or formation, existence and good standing of the Borrower, the authorization of this Amendment and any other legal matters relating to the Borrower, the Agreement or this Amendment, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
     (d) The Administrative Agent shall have received all fees and other amounts due and payable on or prior to the Amendment Effective Date, including reimbursement or payment of all out-of-pocket expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by the Borrower hereunder.
          The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the Amendment Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding.
     6. . The Borrower hereby represents and warrants that as of the date hereof:
Representations and Warranties
 
     (a) The representations and warranties of the Borrower and the other Credit Parties in the Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents are true and correct in all material respects.
     (b) There exists no Default or Event of Default.
     7. . The Credit Agreement, as amended hereby, is hereby ratified and remains in full force and effect.
Ratification
     8. . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one agreement and any of the parties hereto may execute this Amendment by signing any such counterpart.
Counterparts
     9. . This Amendment and the other Credit Documents shall be construed in accordance with the internal laws (but without regard to the conflict of laws provisions other than Section 5-1401 of the New York General Obligations Law ) of the State of New York, but giving effect to federal laws applicable to national banks.
Choice of Law
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Borrower and the undersigned Lenders have caused this Amendment to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     THIS CONSENT AND AGREEMENT OF GUARANTORS ("Consent") is executed and delivered as of ___, 2008, by the undersigned (the "Guarantors"), in favor of the "Lenders" under that certain Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of June 20, 2007, among Pulte Homes, Inc., the Lenders from time to time parties thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as Administrative Agent. Such Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, as it has been and may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, is hereinafter referred to as the "Credit Agreement." Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Credit Agreement.
     WHEREAS, the Guarantors have executed and delivered a Guaranty dated June 20, 2007 in favor of the Lenders under the Credit Agreement (the "Guaranty"); and
     WHEREAS, the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders have entered into that certain Second Amendment to Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement of even date herewith amending the Credit Agreement (the "Amendment"); and
     WHEREAS, it is a condition to the Amendment that the Guarantors shall have executed this Consent;
     NOW THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Guarantors hereby consent to the Amendment and agree that the Guaranty continues in full force and effect with respect to the undersigned Guarantors.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Consent has been duly executed by the Guarantors as of the day and year first set forth above.


