FILE:PHM/PHM-8K-20090916172539.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
This form 8-K/A amends the current report on Form 8-K filed on August 18, 2009, to include Item 9.01 (a) Financial Statements of the Acquired Business and Item 9.01 (b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
The unaudited consolidated balance sheet of Centex Corporation as of June 30, 2009, and the related unaudited statements of consolidated operations and cash flows for the three months ended June 30, 2009 and notes thereto (incorporated by reference to Item 1 of Centex's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for Centex's quarterly period ended June 30, 2009).
 
Attached as exhibit 99.2 are the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2009 and for the year ended December 31, 2008 that give effect to the acquisition of Centex.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
On August 18, 2009, Pulte Homes, Inc. ("Pulte") completed the acquisition of Centex Corporation ("Centex") through the merger of Pulte's merger subsidiary with and into Centex pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of April 7, 2009 among Pulte, Pi Nevada Building Company, and Centex (the "Merger Agreement"). As a result of the merger, Centex became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pulte. The following selected unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information and explanatory notes, which we refer to as the pro forma financial statements, present the pro forma impact of the merger of Pulte and Centex on Pulte's historical financial position and results of operations. The transaction will be accounted for by applying the acquisition method under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141(R), which we refer to as SFAS 141(R), as outlined in the accompanying notes to the pro forma financial statements, which we refer to as the pro forma notes. In accordance with SFAS 141(R), Pulte was treated as the acquirer and the acquired assets and liabilities will be recorded by Pulte at their estimated fair values as of the date the merger was completed.
Business Combinations,
The transactions reflected in the pro forma financial statements include (1) the exchange of all outstanding shares of Centex common stock at the exchange ratio; (2) the exchange of all of Centex's vested and unvested restricted stock for Pulte common stock at the exchange ratio; (3) the exchange of unvested and vested Centex stock options for vested Pulte stock options with adjustments to reflect the exchange ratio; and (4) the conversion of vested and unvested Centex restricted stock units with adjustments to reflect the exchange ratio.
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet at June 30, 2009, which we refer to as the pro forma balance sheet, is presented on a basis to reflect the merger and related transactions as if they had occurred on June 30, 2009. The pro forma balance sheet is prepared by combining the balance sheet at June 30, 2009 for both Pulte and Centex. The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations, which we refer to as the pro forma statements of operations, for the six months ended June 30, 2009 and year ended December 31, 2008 are presented on a basis to reflect the merger and related transactions as if they had occurred on January 1, 2008. The pro forma statement of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2009 is prepared by combining the statement of operations of Pulte for the six months ended June 30, 2009 with the statement of operations for Centex for the six months ended June 30, 2009 and then making pro forma adjustments. The pro forma statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 is prepared by combining the statement of operations of Pulte for the year ended December 31, 2008 with the statement of operations for Centex for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 and then making pro forma adjustments. See Note (a) to the pro forma financial statements for additional information.
The pro forma financial statements should be read in conjunction with the pro forma notes. The pro forma financial statements and pro forma notes were based on, and should be read in conjunction with:
 
 
 
 
Pulte's and Centex's historical consolidated financial information has been adjusted in the pro forma financial statements to give effect to pro forma events that are (1) directly attributable to the merger; (2) factually supportable; and (3) with respect to the pro forma statements of operations, expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results. The pro forma financial statements do not reflect any revenue enhancements or any cost savings from operating efficiencies, synergies or other restructurings that could result from the merger. The pro forma financial statements also do not reflect any restructuring charges to be incurred in connection with the merger, with the exception of estimated severance costs related to certain members of Centex's senior management that were incurred concurrently with or shortly after completion of the merger. The remaining restructuring charges are in the process of being determined and primarily relate to cost saving measures in corporate and field overhead. These charges are excluded from the pro forma financial statements as they are not factually supportable at this time. In accordance with SFAS 141(R), these costs will be expensed as incurred.
In addition, the pro forma financial statements do not reflect any adjustments related to expected interest savings from retirements of debt subsequent to completion of the merger. On September 9, 2009, Pulte completed a tender offer that retired approximately $1.5 billion of combined senior notes. All of the senior notes retired were outstanding prior to the merger and consisted of approximately $1.0 billion of legacy Centex senior notes acquired with the merger and approximately $0.5 billion of legacy Pulte senior notes. The reduction of outstanding debt was contemplated with the merger as an area for cost savings. The impact of the tender offer, which was neither required by the merger nor related to the financing of the merger, has been excluded from the pro forma financial statements as it represents a discretionary decision by management regarding the optimal use of capital, though an estimate of the annual interest savings resulting from the reduction of debt is disclosed in the pro forma notes.
The pro forma adjustments are based upon available information and assumptions that the management of Pulte believes reasonably reflect the merger. We present the pro forma financial statements for informational purposes only. The pro forma financial statements are provided for illustrative purposes only and do not purport to represent what the actual consolidated results of operations or the consolidated financial position of Pulte would have been had the merger occurred on the dates assumed, nor are they necessarily indicative of future consolidated results of operations or financial position.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pulte's fiscal year ends on December 31 while Centex's fiscal year ended on March 31. Therefore, Centex's historical financial information has been recast to conform with Pulte's fiscal calendar. Centex's historical statements of operations for the six and twelve months ended June 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008 were derived from Centex's historical statements of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2009, nine months ended December 31, 2008, and the years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, as follows:
 
 
The pro forma statement of operations for Centex excludes amounts reported as discontinued operations in Centex's historical financial statements.
 
 
 
The pro forma statement of operations for Centex excludes amounts reported as discontinued operations in Centex's historical financial statements.
 
Certain financial statement line items included in Centex's historical presentation have been reclassified to corresponding line items as included in Pulte's historical presentation as reflected in the following tables:
 
 
 
 The reclassifications presented in the Centex balance sheet as of June 30, 2009 and the Centex statements of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2009 and twelve months ended December 31, 2008 are as follows:
:
Balance sheet reclassifications
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
:
Statements of operations reclassifications
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These reclassifications had no impact on the historical loss from continuing operations reported by Centex, are preliminary, and do not reflect the final identification of all differences in presentation which may be identified by the time Pulte completes its acquisition accounting, which Pulte currently expects will be completed within one year of completion of the merger. Material revisions to Pulte's preliminary estimates may be necessary as more information becomes available through the completion of this final determination. The actual amounts recorded following the completion of the merger may be materially different from the information presented in the pro forma financial statements. These reclassifications also do not reflect differences in presentation resulting from the differences in historical accounting practices related to the capitalization and allocation of certain construction and land development costs, as described in Note (c), "Accounting Policies". Historically, Centex included such costs in selling, general and administrative expenses while Pulte generally includes such costs in cost of revenues.
 
Differences in the accounting practices or policies applied by Pulte and Centex may exist that would materially impact the pro forma financial statements. Based on preliminary reviews of Centex's accounting policies and discussions with Centex management, certain differences in historical accounting practices and policies are known to exist, including those related to the capitalization and allocation of certain construction and land development costs. Given the long time periods over which such costs are capitalized and allocated in the homebuilding industry as a result of the long life cycles of many communities, such differences are not readily quantifiable. It is also not readily determinable whether such differences would result in either an increase or a decrease to pro forma expenses. Pulte does not believe that such differences would have a material impact on the pro forma financial statements. As part of the purchase price allocation process under SFAS 141(R), Pulte will record all acquired inventory at fair value, which will eliminate any differences in historical accounting policies. Pulte is in the process of performing a detailed evaluation of Centex's accounting policies. As a result of that review, it may become necessary to harmonize the combined entity's financial statements to conform those accounting policies that are determined to be more appropriate for the combined entity. The pro forma financial statements do not reflect any potential differences in accounting policies.
 
Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, Pulte acquired all of the outstanding shares of Centex common stock at the fixed exchange ratio of 0.975 shares of Pulte common stock for each share of Centex common stock. In addition, the majority of the restricted shares of Centex common stock and restricted stock units with respect to Centex common stock granted under Centex's employee and director stock plans vested and were converted per the exchange ratio into Pulte common stock or units with respect to Pulte common stock. Each outstanding vested and unvested Centex stock option granted under Centex's employee and director stock plans was converted into a vested option to purchase shares of Pulte common stock, with adjustments to reflect the exchange ratio. The Merger Agreement required that, with respect to Centex stock options that were granted with an exercise price less than $40.00 per share, the terms of the converted, vested options to purchase shares of Pulte common stock provided that, if the holder of the option experiences a severance-qualifying termination of employment during the two-year period
 
following the completion of the merger, the stock option remained exercisable until the later of (1) the third anniversary of the date of the termination of employment and (2) the date on which the option would cease to be exercisable in accordance with its terms (or, in either case, if earlier, the expiration of the scheduled term of the option). This provision will result in incremental expense in the post-merger period. The valuation of the incremental fair value attributable to this change in exercise period has not been finalized and thus has not been reflected in the pro forma financial statements. For purposes of the pro forma financial statements, the purchase price was computed using the market value of Pulte common stock issued in connection with the merger based on Pulte's common stock closing price of $12.33 per share on August 18, 2009, the date the merger was completed. There was no material activity in the number of Centex shares of common stock, restricted stock, stock options, or restricted stock units between June 30, 2009 and August 18, 2009. The purchase price of $1.5 billion includes the issuance of Pulte common stock for the immediate vesting and conversion of unvested restricted stock and restricted stock units and the estimated value attributable to converting vested and unvested Centex stock options into options to purchase Pulte common stock described below. The preliminary purchase price is calculated as follows:
 
 
  Centex's expenses for this transaction approximated $27.0 million, which were reflected as an expense in Centex's pre-merger historical consolidated financial statements in the period the expense was incurred. These costs include fees for investment banking services, legal, accounting, due diligence, tax, valuation, printing and other various services necessary to complete the transaction. These estimated expenses of Centex are reflected in the pro forma balance sheet as of June 30, 2009 as a reduction to cash of $27.0 million and a charge to shareholders' equity of $27.0 million. This adjustment has also been reflected as a decrease in the net assets of Centex in the application of acquisition accounting.
Centex transaction costs
  Certain members of Centex's management entered into incentive plan agreements with Centex that require a cash payment upon a change in control. In addition, under the terms of the performance unit plan, upon a change in control, all of the outstanding performance units vested and were converted into the right to receive an amount of cash equal to the product of (1) the total number of shares subject to such performance units and (2) the fair value of Centex common stock just prior to the date of completion of the merger. The change in control cash payments have been reflected as a one-time adjustment to the pro forma balance sheet as of June 30, 2009 as a reduction to cash of $24.0 million, a reduction to accrued expenses of $4.6 million and a charge to shareholders' equity of $19.4 million. This adjustment has also been reflected as a decrease in the net assets of Centex in the application of acquisition accounting.
Centex change in control payments
  Upon the completion of the merger, the majority of the unvested restricted stock, unvested restricted stock units and unvested stock options granted by Centex vested and were exchanged for Pulte common stock and Pulte common stock options, respectively, with adjustments reflecting the exchange ratio. The vesting of the restricted stock, restricted stock units and stock options upon the change in control would have resulted in accelerated compensation expense for Centex of approximately $27.9 million as of June 30, 2009. This estimated expense is not reflected in the pro forma financial statements at June 30, 2009 as it has no impact on Centex's net assets as the expense will be offset by a corresponding increase to paid in capital. In May 2009, Centex awarded 835,505 shares of restricted stock to executive officers and other employees pursuant to Centex's annual long-term award practices. The majority of this restricted stock remained outstanding at August 18, 2009 and was converted to unvested Pulte restricted stock at the exchange ratio. The fair value as of August 18, 2009 of the unvested restricted stock issued by Pulte approximated $9.9 million and will be recognized over the implied service period.
Centex restricted stock, restricted stock units and stock options
 
 Certain of Centex's executive officers entered into agreements with Centex that required cash payments upon termination of employment under certain circumstances. Pulte incurred severance costs relating to certain senior executive positions at Centex concurrently with or shortly after completion of the merger. These severance cash payments have been reflected as a one-time adjustment to the pro forma balance sheet as of June 30, 2009 as a reduction to cash of approximately $9.0 million and a charge to retained earnings of approximately $9.0 million. This adjustment has also been reflected as a decrease in the net assets of Centex in the application of acquisition accounting.
Severance Payments
The following is a preliminary estimate of the assets to be acquired and the liabilities to be assumed by Pulte in the merger, reconciled to the estimate of consideration expected to be transferred:
 
Pulte has not yet finalized its detailed valuation analyses necessary to determine the fair value of the Centex assets to be acquired and liabilities to be assumed and the related allocations of purchase price. For the purposes of the pro forma financial statements, Pulte has made a preliminary estimate of the fair value for certain of the assets and liabilities for which sufficient information was available. These items include inventory, tradenames, backlog, and senior notes, and their estimated fair values have been based on the following methodology:
 
The aggregate fair value adjustment of $(410.0) million as of June 30, 2009 relates to all components of Centex's consolidated inventory balance of $2.9 billion. This adjustment primarily relates to land inventory, which was not impaired in the historical reporting of Centex as of June 30, 2009 primarily because the undiscounted cash flows were sufficient to recover the asset value and therefore, under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, , which we refer to as SFAS 144, did not require the assets to be measured at fair value. Applying a discount rate to these cash flows results in a decrease in value due to the holding period of the asset.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets
 
Due to the significant volatility in demand for new housing that has existed in recent years and the significant uncertainty that currently exists in the U.S. economy and financial markets, the fair value of inventory to be acquired in the merger may fluctuate significantly between our preliminary estimates and the final determination after completion of the merger. The following analysis presents the sensitivity of Centex's inventory to hypothetical changes in fair values as if these changes occurred at June 30, 2009. The ranges of changes chosen for this analysis reflect Pulte's view of changes which are reasonably possible. Any such change would generally result in a corresponding offsetting change in the amount of goodwill.
 
No adjustments have been made to the pro forma statements of operations to remove inventory impairments taken by Centex over the period. As discussed above, determining the fair value of inventory in the homebuilding industry is complicated and relies significantly on management judgments and estimates regarding future market conditions and the operating performance of individual communities over extended periods, which can range to over ten years. While Pulte has estimated the fair value of inventory at June 30, 2009, insufficient information is available to perform a similar valuation as of January 1, 2008. Additionally, any pro forma presentation of cost of sales would require removing the inventory impairments taken by Centex over the period, which were significant, performing pro forma inventory impairment analyses at different points in time during 2008 and 2009, and then determining the impact of each of the above on the average per lot cost attributable to units sold during 2008 and 2009. Because Centex's inventory impairment analyses involve both undiscounted and fair value analyses as required by SFAS 144, any such pro forma impairment analyses would be complex and influenced by market conditions and management's judgments and estimates. Given the significant volatility in the demand for new housing and in both Pulte's and Centex's historical and expected future operating results, such a presentation in the pro forma statements of operations may not be indicative of future operating results.
 
 
 
 
 
The pro forma financial statements do not reflect any adjustments related to expected interest savings from retirements of debt subsequent to completion of the merger. On September 9, 2009, Pulte completed a tender offer that retired approximately $1.5 billion of combined senior notes. All of the senior notes retired were outstanding prior to the merger and consisted of approximately $1.0 billion of legacy Centex senior notes acquired with the merger and approximately $0.5 billion of legacy Pulte senior notes. The reduction of outstanding debt was contemplated with the merger as an area for cost savings. The impact of the tender offer, which was neither required by the merger nor related to the financing of the merger, has been excluded from the pro forma financial statements as it represents a discretionary decision by management regarding the optimal use of capital. Annual interest savings resulting from the overall reduction of debt since the date of the Merger Agreement, including the tender offer, Pulte's open market repurchases completed in the second quarter of 2009, and scheduled maturities in the third quarter of 2009, is expected to approximate $130.0 million, of which approximately $13.0 million relates to scheduled maturities. Since the majority of this interest would have been capitalized to inventory and amortized through cost of sales as lots closed, the full amount of these savings will not be reflected in Pulte's results of operations in the first year following completion of the merger.
The carrying values of current assets and liabilities, such as cash, trade receivables, accounts payable and certain accrued liabilities, approximate fair value.
For certain other acquired assets and assumed liabilities, including land option agreements, lease contracts, non-compete agreements, investments in joint ventures, property and equipment, mortgage loans, self-insured retention liabilities, and other contingent liabilities, Pulte has assumed that the carrying value approximates fair value, with the remaining unallocated purchase price being characterized as excess purchase price (goodwill). Once Pulte finalizes its purchase price allocation, these assumptions may change and estimates of fair values may change. Additionally, Pulte may identify adjustments to the pro forma statements of operations, for example, due to additional depreciation of property and equipment or amortization of identified intangible assets, or may identify additional tangible or intangible assets or liabilities that have not been included on the pro forma balance sheet, all of which could have a material impact on the pro forma financial statements.
The merger is reflected in the pro forma balance sheet as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The merger is reflected in the pro forma statements of operations as follows:
 
 
 
 
Pulte estimates that its expenses for this transaction will be approximately $18.0 million, which will be reflected as an expense of Pulte in the period the expense is incurred. These costs include fees for investment banking services, legal, accounting, due diligence, tax, valuation, printing and other various services necessary to complete the transaction. These estimated expenses of Pulte are reflected in the pro forma balance sheet as of June 30, 2009 as a reduction to cash of $18.0 million and a charge to retained earnings of $18.0 million.
 
Pulte and Centex had common ownership in two land development joint ventures which historically have been reflected in each company's respective historical consolidated financial statements under the equity method. As a result of the merger, Pulte holds greater than 50% ownership in both of these joint ventures. The pro forma financial statements have been adjusted to present the two joint ventures historically accounted for as equity method investments as consolidated subsidiaries, resulting in the following adjustments to the pro forma balance sheet:
 
Both of these joint ventures represent land development agreements that had only minimal expenses. Accordingly, the pro forma statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2008 does not reflect the impact of consolidating these entities. However, one of these entities incurred a loss of $62.3 million during the six months ended June 30, 2009, primarily related to inventory impairments. Such loss is reflected in the pro forma statement of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2009 as a reclassification from equity income (loss) from unconsolidated entities to Homebuilding: Home cost of revenues to reflect the consolidation of this entity. There were no other material transactions between Pulte and Centex during the periods presented in the pro forma financial statements that would need to be eliminated or otherwise adjusted.
 
During 2008, Pulte and Centex recognized tax benefits related to NOL carryback claims. At June 30, 2009, both Pulte and Centex reported a valuation allowance in their historical consolidated financial statements in regards to future tax benefits. No pro forma tax adjustments have been reflected in the pro forma financial statements as the adjustments would require an immediate reassessment of the valuation allowance, which would result in an offsetting change in the valuation allowance eliminating any tax impact on the pro forma balance sheet and pro forma statements of operations. In addition, Centex has recorded provisions for uncertain tax positions. In accordance with SFAS 141(R), income taxes are an exception to both the recognition and fair value measurement principles; they continue to be accounted for under the guidance of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, .
Accounting for Income Taxes
 
The unaudited pro forma net loss per share attributable to Pulte is calculated based on the exchange of all outstanding Centex common stock for Pulte common stock. This exchange included the conversion of Centex unvested restricted stock and restricted stock units. The outstanding share information for Centex utilizes the number of common shares outstanding and information related to unvested restricted stock at June 30, 2009 and December 31, 2008. The incremental number of common shares that were issued by Pulte in the merger are 122.5 million at January 1, 2008. The weighted average shares outstanding used in the pro forma net loss per share attributable to Pulte calculations for the period are summarized below:
 
For the six months ended June 30, 2009, the loss per share for the Centex equivalent period has been calculated by dividing the equivalent loss from continuing operations by the sum of (1) the weighted average Centex common shares outstanding for the three months ended March 31, 2008 multiplied by 50% (period outstanding), and (2) the weighted average Centex common shares outstanding for the three months ended June 30, 2009 multiplied by 50% (period outstanding).
For the year ended December 31, 2008, the loss per share for the Centex equivalent period has been calculated by dividing the equivalent loss from continuing operations by the sum of (1) the weighted average Centex common shares outstanding for the three months ended March 31, 2008 multiplied by 25% (period outstanding), and (2) the weighted average Centex common shares outstanding for the nine months ended December 31, 2008 multiplied by 75% (period outstanding).
 
Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, vested and unvested Centex stock options were converted into vested options to purchase shares of Pulte common stock with the same terms and conditions as the applicable Centex stock options, except that (i) the exercise period following certain terminations of employment was extended for stock options granted with an exercise price less than $40.00 per share and (ii) the number of shares of stock subject to the option and the exercise price was adjusted to reflect the exchange ratio. To determine the amount to be included in the purchase consideration, Pulte will value the options to purchase shares of its common stock using the same terms as the Centex stock options being converted. As noted above, certain stock options to purchase shares of Pulte common stock had a longer exercise period following certain terminations of employment than the original Centex option, which impacted the fair value of the option on the merger date. The incremental value by which the fair value of the options to purchase Pulte common stock exceeds the fair value of Centex stock options will be treated as post-merger compensation expense and will be recognized over the implied service period. The valuation of the incremental fair value attributable to this change in exercise period has not been finalized and thus has not been reflected in the pro forma financial statements.
At the merger announcement date, the majority of the Centex stock options were deep out of the money, which implies that there may be a derived service period because the employee may be required to provide service for some period to obtain value from the award. Therefore, a portion of the fair value of Centex stock options, along with the incremental value by which the fair value of the options to purchase Pulte common stock exceeds the fair value of the Centex stock options, may need to be recognized in the post-merger period over the derived service period. These amounts have not been finalized and thus have not been reflected in the pro forma financial statements. The portion of the fair value of Centex stock options that may need to be recognized in the post-merger period is not expected to be material to the pro forma financial statements.
 
Cash and equivalents includes amounts related to cash with certain restrictions pursuant to insurance-related regulatory requirements, customer deposits that are temporarily restricted in accordance with regulatory requirements, and required cash balances for secured financing arrangements. Of the total cash and equivalents balance at June 30, 2009, approximately $69.8 million was believed to be legally restricted as to withdrawal or usage. Cash and equivalents also included $795.4 million maintained in liquidity reserve accounts in connection with Pulte and Centex's revolving credit facilities. Pulte and Centex were required to maintain such liquidity reserve accounts due to the failure to satisfy the interest coverage tests as set forth in their respective revolving credit facility agreements. While Pulte and Centex's access to and utilization of such funds was not restricted, failure to maintain sufficient balances within the liquidity reserve accounts could have restricted Pulte and Centex's ability to utilize their respective revolving credit facilities. As a result of the merger, the amount required to be maintained in the liquidity reserve accounts will be based on Pulte's consolidated interest coverage ratio.
 


