FILE:PHM/PHM-8K-20090806164614.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement
On July 31, 2009, Pulte Mortgage LLC ("Pulte Mortgage" or the "Seller"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pulte Homes, Inc., entered into a Master Repurchase Agreement (the "Repurchase Agreement") with Bank of America, N.A. The purpose of the Repurchase Agreement is to finance the origination of mortgage loans by Pulte Mortgage. The Repurchase Agreement provides for loan purchases of up to $35 million, subject to certain sublimits and increasing to $70 million upon completion of Pulte Homes, Inc.'s merger with Centex Corporation, which is expected to be completed on or about August 18, 2009. There is no accordion feature. The Repurchase Agreement expires on July 30, 2010.
Advances under the Repurchase Agreement carry a Pricing Rate based on the Libor Rate plus the Applicable Margin, as defined in the Repurchase Agreement as 2.25%, or the Default Rate, as defined in the Repurchase Agreement as 5.0%. The Repurchase Agreement also provides for a Libor Rate Floor of 2.0%.
The Repurchase Agreement contains various affirmative and negative covenants. The negative covenants include, among others, certain limitations on transactions involving acquisitions, mergers, the incurrence of debt, sale of assets, and creation of liens upon any of its Mortgage Notes. Additional covenants include: (i) Adjusted Tangible Net Worth shall not be less than $52.8 million, (ii) the Adjusted Tangible Net Worth Ratio shall not be more than 10.0 to 1.0, (iii) Net Income shall not be less than $1, and (iv) Liquidity shall be no less than $15.0 million.
The Repurchase Agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference. The above referenced summary of the material terms of the Repurchase Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 10.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS MASTER REPURCHASE AGREEMENT (the ) is made and entered into as of July 31, 2009 by and between Bank of America, N.A., a federal savings bank (), and Pulte Mortgage LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ().
"Agreement"
"Buyer"
"Seller"
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual rights and obligations provided herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, Seller and Buyer agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Buyer and Seller intend and agree that all such payments shall be "settlement payments" as such term is defined in Bankruptcy Code Section 741(8). After the settlement payments have been applied as set forth above, Buyer shall deposit in the Over/Under Account any amounts that remain.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If Buyer delivers a Margin Call to Seller on or prior to 8:00 a.m. (Pacific time) on any Business Day, then Seller shall transfer cash or Additional Purchased Mortgage Loans to Buyer no later than 5:00 p.m. (Pacific time) that same day. If Buyer delivers a Margin Call to Seller after 8:00 a.m. (Pacific time) on any Business Day, Seller shall be required to transfer cash or Additional Purchased Mortgage Loans no later than 5:00 p.m. (Pacific time) on the next subsequent Business Day. Notice of a Margin Call may be provided by Buyer to Seller electronically or in writing, such as via electronic mail or posting such notice on Buyer's customer website(s).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Upon receipt of the applicable amount, as set forth above, Buyer shall deliver or shall cause the Custodian to deliver the related Mortgage Loan Documents to Seller or Seller's designee, if such documents have not already been delivered pursuant to a Bailee Agreement. If such release gives rise to or perpetuates a Margin Deficit, Buyer shall notify Seller of the amount thereof and Seller shall thereupon satisfy the Margin Call in the manner specified in . Buyer shall have no obligation to release a repurchased Purchased Mortgage Loan or terminate its security interest in such Purchased Mortgage Loan until such Margin Call is satisfied.
Section 6.3(b)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seller hereby covenants and agrees with Buyer that during the term of this Agreement and for so long as there remain any obligations of Seller to be paid or performed under the Principal Agreements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seller hereby covenants and agrees with Buyer that during the term of this Agreement and for so long as there remain any obligations of Seller to be paid or performed under this Agreement, Seller shall comply with the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With respect to any Event of Default which requires a determination to be made as to whether such Event of Default has occurred, such determination shall be made in Buyer's sole and good faith discretion and Seller hereby agrees to be bound by and comply with any such determination by Buyer.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All written notices shall be conclusively deemed to have been properly given or made when duly delivered, if delivered in person or by overnight delivery service, or on the third (3
rd
) Business Day after being deposited in the mail, if mailed in accordance herewith, or upon transmission by the receiving party of a facsimile confirming receipt, if delivered by facsimile. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any notice of termination shall be deemed effective upon mailing, transmission, or delivery, as the case may be.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Buyer shall not disclose any Confidential Information to any prospective un-Affiliated transferee, assignee or participant unless such un-Affiliated Person shall have agreed, in writing for the benefit of Seller and prior to any such disclosure, to be bound by the terms of this .
Section 14.17
If any party or any of its successors, subsidiaries, officers, directors, employees, agents and/or representatives, including, without limitation, its insurers, sureties and/or attorneys, breaches its respective duty of confidentiality under this Agreement, the nonbreaching party(ies) shall be entitled to all remedies available at law and/or in equity, including, without limitation, injunctive relief.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
With respect to any Purchased Mortgage Loan, those mortgage servicing practices of prudent mortgage lending institutions which service mortgage loans of the same type as such Purchased Mortgage Loan in the jurisdiction where the related Mortgaged Property is located.
Accepted Servicing Practices
:
: That certain Acknowledgement of Confidentiality of Password Agreement attached hereto as .
Acknowledgement of Confidentiality of Password Agreement
Exhibit I
: Those additional Mortgage Loans or cash provided by Seller to Buyer pursuant to of this Agreement.
Additional Purchased Mortgage Loans
Section 6.3
: With respect to any specified entity, any other entity controlling or controlled by or under common control with such specified entity. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to a specified entity means the power to direct the management and policies of such entity, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise, and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" having meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
: Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac.
Agency
: The maximum aggregate principal amount of Transactions that may be outstanding at any one time, as set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter.
Aggregate Transaction Limit
: With respect to any date of determination, the daily rate per annum (rounded up to three (3) decimal places) for one-month U.S. dollar denominated deposits as offered to prime banks in the London interbank market () as published on Bloomberg or in the Wall Street Journal. It is understood that the Applicable Pricing Rate shall be initially set to the then current One-Month LIBOR in effect on the date the Purchase Price is paid and shall thereafter be adjusted on a daily basis to the then current One-Month LIBOR.
Applicable Pricing Rate
"One-Month LIBOR"
: The application or "Buyer Application Profile," including all supporting documentation, submitted by Seller to Buyer with respect to this Agreement.
Application
: Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, Ginnie Mae or a financially responsible private institution, which is deemed acceptable by Buyer in its sole and good faith discretion, purchasing Purchased Mortgage Loans from Seller pursuant to a Purchase Commitment.
Approved Investor
: A Closing Agent or warehouse lender approved by Buyer in accordance with .
Approved Payee
Section 3.7
: A document, in the form required by Buyer and as may from time to time be amended by Buyer, as such form may be set forth in the Handbook, completed by Seller and submitted to Buyer with respect to each Purchased Mortgage Loan.
Asset Data Record
: With respect to each Purchased Mortgage Loan for any date of determination, an amount equal to the following, as applicable, as same may be reduced in accordance with :
Asset Value
Section 4.3
(a)         if the Purchased Mortgage Loan has Standard Status, the product of the Mortgage Loan Value and the Type Purchase Price Percentage for the type of Purchased Mortgage Loan;
(b)         if the Purchased Mortgage Loan is a Noncompliant Mortgage Loan, the product of the Mortgage Loan Value and the Type Purchase Price Percentage for a Noncompliant Mortgage Loan; or
 
(c)         if the Purchased Mortgage Loan is a Defective Mortgage Loan, zero.
For purposes of the foregoing, shall mean the lesser of (i) the outstanding principal balance of the Purchased Mortgage Loan; (ii) the committed purchase price of the Purchased Mortgage Loan, as evidenced by the related Purchase Commitment; and (iii) the fair market value of the Purchased Mortgage Loan, as determined by Buyer in its sole and good faith discretion. In determining the Asset Value of any Purchased Mortgage Loan, Buyer shall use valuations that are consistently applied by Buyer to all other customers for determining the Asset Value of the Purchased Mortgage Loan and, at the request of Seller, and to the extent such documentation exists, Buyer shall provide Seller with documentation reasonably related to and supporting any such determination.
"Mortgage Loan Value"
: A duly executed assignment to Buyer in recordable form of a Purchased Mortgage Loan, of the indebtedness secured thereby and of all documents and rights related to such Purchased Mortgage Loan.
Assignment
: An assignment assigning and subrogating Buyer to all of Seller's rights in a Closing Protection Letter, substantially in the form of hereto.
Assignment of Closing Protection Letter
Exhibit F
: An assignment assigning and subrogating Buyer to all of Seller's rights in a Fidelity Bond and Errors and Omissions Policy, substantially in the form of hereto.
Assignment of Fidelity Bond and Errors and Omission Policy
Exhibit G
: A bailee agreement substantially in the form acceptable to Buyer.
Bailee Agreement
: Title 11 of the United States Code, now or hereafter in effect, as amended, or any successor thereto.
Bankruptcy Code
Bond Loans  1
st
Liens
: Unless defined otherwise in the Transactions Terms Letter, a first lien mortgage loan, other than a Nonperforming/Subperforming Mortgage Loan, that is eligible for sponsorship, facilitated or insured by a qualifying local or state home governmental homeownership program.
Bond Loans  2
nd
Liens
: Unless defined otherwise in the Transactions Terms Letter, a second lien mortgage loan for a fixed amount drawn at closing, that is eligible for sponsorship, facilitated or insured by a qualifying local or state governmental home homeownership program.
: That fee, as set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter or otherwise agreed to by Buyer and Seller, payable by Seller to Buyer if Seller fails to consummate a Transaction after Seller has submitted an Asset Data Record in connection with such requested Transaction.
Breakage Fee
: Any day, excluding Saturday, Sunday and any day that is a legal holiday under the laws of the State of California.
Business Day
: Any (a) securities with maturities of ninety (90) days or less from the date of acquisition issued or fully guaranteed or insured by the United States Government or any agency thereof, (b) certificates of deposit and Eurodollar time deposits with maturities of ninety (90) days or less from the date of acquisition and overnight bank deposits of any commercial bank having capital, surplus and retained earnings in excess of $70,000,000, (c) repurchase obligations of any commercial bank satisfying the requirements of clause (b) of this definition, having a term of not more than seven days with respect to securities issued or fully guaranteed or insured by the United States Government, (d) commercial paper of a domestic issuer rated at least A-1 or the equivalent thereof by S&P or p-1 or the equivalent thereof by Moody's and in either case maturing within ninety (90) days after the day of acquisition, (e) securities with maturities of ninety (90) days or less from the date of acquisition issued or fully guaranteed by any state, commonwealth or territory of the United States, by any political subdivision or taxing authority of any such state, commonwealth or territory or by any foreign government, the securities of which state, commonwealth, territory, political subdivision, taxing authority or foreign
Cash Equivalents
 
government (as the case may be) are rated at least A by S&P or A by Moody's, (f) securities with maturities of ninety (90) days or less from the date of acquisition backed by standby letters of credit issued by any commercial bank satisfying the requirements of clause (b) of this definition, or (g) shares of money market, mutual or similar funds which invest exclusively in assets satisfying the requirements of clauses (a) through (f) of this definition.
: Change of Control shall mean any of the following:
Change of Control
(a)         if Seller is a corporation, any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")), other than a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities of Seller under an employee benefit plan of Seller, becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of Seller representing 50% or more of (A) the outstanding shares of common stock of Seller or (B) the combined voting power of Seller's then-outstanding securities;
(b)         if Seller is a legal entity other than a corporation, the majority voting control of Seller, or its equivalent, under Seller's governing documents is transferred to any Person;
(c)         Seller is party to a merger or consolidation, or series of related transactions, which results in the voting securities or majority voting control interest of Seller outstanding immediately prior thereto failing to continue to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities or a majority voting controlling interest of the surviving or another entity) at least fifty (50%) percent of the combined voting power of the voting securities or majority voting control interest of Seller or such surviving or other entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation;
(d)         the sale or disposition of all or substantially all of Seller's assets (or consummation of any transaction, or series of related transactions, having similar effect);
(e)         there occurs a change in the composition of the Board of Directors or governing body of Seller within a one (1) year period, as a result of which fewer than a majority of the directors or governing body members are incumbent;
(f)          the dissolution or liquidation of Seller; or
(g)         any transaction or series of related transactions that has the substantial effect of any one or more of the foregoing.
: Unless defined otherwise in the Transactions Terms Letter, a second lien mortgage loan for a fixed amount drawn at closing and underwritten in accordance with Seller's underwriting guidelines for second lien mortgages, as same have been approved by Buyer.
Closed-End Second Lien Mortgage Loan
: The Person designated by Seller and approved by Buyer in accordance with to receive Purchase Prices from Buyer, for the account of Seller, for the purpose of funding a Purchased Mortgage Loan.
Closing Agent
Section 3.7
: A document issued by a title insurance company to Seller and/or Buyer and relied upon by Buyer to provide closing protection for one or more mortgage loan closings and to insure Seller and/or Buyer, without limitation, against embezzlement by the Closing Agent and loss or damage resulting from the failure of the Closing Agent to comply with all applicable closing instructions.
Closing Protection Letter
: Any obligation of Seller arising from an existing condition or situation that involves uncertainty as to outcome and that will be resolved by the occurrence or nonoccurrence of some future event, including, without limitation, any obligation guaranteeing or intended to guarantee any Debt, leases, dividends or other obligations of any other Person in any manner, whether directly or indirectly; provided; however, that endorsements of instruments for deposit or collection in the ordinary course of business shall not be included. With respect to guarantees, the amount of the Contingent Obligation shall be equal to the stated or determinable amount of the primary obligation in respect of the guarantee or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof, as determined by Buyer.
Contingent Obligations
 
The agreement to perfect Buyer's security interest in the Custodial Account as described at Section 6.2(i) of this Agreement.
Control Agreement:
: Unless defined otherwise in the Transactions Terms Letter, a first lien mortgage loan that fully conforms to all underwriting standards, loan amount limitations and other requirements of that standard Agency mortgage loan purchase program accepting only the highest quality mortgage loans underwritten without dependence on expanded criteria provisions, or that is approved by Desktop Underwriter or Loan Prospector.
Conventional Conforming Mortgage Loan
: Those assets set forth in the consolidated balance sheet of Seller, prepared in accordance with GAAP, as current assets, defined as those assets that are now cash or will by their terms or disposition be converted to cash within one (1) year of the date of the determination.
Current Assets
: Those liabilities set forth in the consolidated balance sheet of Seller, prepared in accordance with GAAP, as current liabilities, defined as those liabilities due upon demand or within one (1) year of the date of determination.
Current Liabilities
: The account described at Section 6.2(i) of this Agreement.
Custodial Account
: The initial Custodian as set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter, and upon removal of such Person, Bank of America, N.A. or such other custodian selected by Buyer in its sole and good faith discretion and reasonably acceptable to Seller.
Custodian
: The date of disbursement shall mean (i) with respect to a wire transfer, the date such funds are wired, (ii) with respect to a cashiers check, the date such check is issued by the bank and (iii) with respect to a funding draft, the date that the draft is posted by the bank on which the draft is drawn.
Date of Disbursement
: The debt of Seller consisting of, without duplication: (a) indebtedness for borrowed money, including principal, interest, fees and other charges; (b) obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments; (c) obligations to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services; (d) obligations as lessee under leases that shall have been or should be in accordance with GAAP, recorded as capital leases; (e) obligations secured by any lien upon property or assets owned by Seller, even though Seller has not assumed or become liable for payment of such obligations; (f) obligations in connection with any letter of credit issued for the account of Seller; (g) obligations under direct or indirect guarantees in respect of and obligations, contingent or otherwise, to purchase or otherwise acquire, or otherwise assure a creditor against loss in respect of, indebtedness or obligations of others of the kinds referred to above; and (h) all Contingent Obligations.
Debt
: One Month LIBOR plus 5%, but not to exceed the maximum nonusurious interest rate, if any, that at any time, or from time to time, may be contracted for, taken, reserved, charged or received under the laws of the United States and the State of California.
Default Rate
: A fee equal to five hundred dollars ($500) payable by Seller for each Purchased Mortgage Loan that is or becomes a Defective Mortgage Loan; provided that no such fee shall be charged to Seller if Seller cures the deficiencies with respect to such Mortgage Loan, or repurchases such Mortgage Loan, within ten (10) calendar days after Seller's receipt of notice that such Mortgage Loan is being classified as a Defective Mortgage Loan.
Defective Loan Fee
 
: A Purchased Mortgage Loan:
Defective Mortgage Loan
(a)         that has not been repurchased within the Maximum Dwell Time for a Noncompliant Mortgage Loan or is ineligible to be a Noncompliant Mortgage Loan because the aggregate original Asset Value of other Purchased Mortgage Loans that are deemed to be Noncompliant Mortgage Loans is equal to or greater than the Type Sublimit for Noncompliant Mortgage Loans;
(b)         that is the subject of fraud by any Person involved in the origination of such Mortgage Loan and such fraud shall not have been remedied within three (3) Business Days after receipt of notice from Buyer to do so;
(c)         where the related Mortgaged Property is the subject of material damage or waste and such damage or waste shall not have been remedied within three (3) Business Days after receipt of notice from Buyer to do so;
(d)         in connection with which any other breach of a warranty or representation set forth in occurs and remains uncured for a period of ten (10) calendar days;
Section 8.2
(e)         in connection with which a default occurs under the Purchased Mortgage Loan and remains uncured for a period of ten (10) calendar days; or
(f)         where the related Mortgagor fails to make the first payment due under the Mortgage Note on or before the applicable due date, including any days of grace, and such default shall not have been remedied within three (3) Business Days after receipt of notice from Buyer to do so; provided, however, that with respect to any Nonperforming/Subperforming Mortgage Loan where specific payment conditions have been set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter, such Nonperforming/Subperforming Mortgage Loan shall only be deemed a Defective Mortgage Loan for failure of the Mortgagor to make payment if such failure constitutes a breach of the such specific payment conditions.
: A Mortgage Loan for which Buyer or its Custodian has possession of the related Mortgage Loan Documents, in a form and condition acceptable to Buyer, prior to the payment of the Purchase Price.
Dry Mortgage Loan
: That effective date set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter.
Effective Date
: An Electronic Tracking Agreement in a form acceptable to Buyer.
Electronic Tracking Agreement
A bank selected by Seller and approved by Buyer in writing and authorized to conduct trust and other banking business in any state in which Seller conducts operations.
:
Eligible Bank
: The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time and any successor statute.
ERISA
: Any person (as defined in section 3(9) of ERISA) that together with Seller or any of its subsidiaries would be a member of the same "controlled group" within the meaning of Section 414(b), (m), (c) and (o) of the Internal Review Code of 1986, as amended.
ERISA Affiliate
: Chairman of the board of directors, chief executive officer, president, and chief financial officer.
Executive Management
 
: Unless defined otherwise in the Transactions Terms Letter, a first lien mortgage loan underwritten to the same high credit standards as a Conventional Conforming Mortgage Loan except with respect to loan programs and parameters that may have broader specifications of eligibility.
Expanded Criteria Mortgage Loan
: Any of the conditions or events set forth in .
Event of Default
Section 11.1
: The Expiration Date set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter for the expiration of this Agreement.
Expiration Date
: The non-refundable, annual commitment fee, as set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter.
Facility Fee
: The Federal National Mortgage Association and any successor thereto.
Fannie Mae
: The Federal Housing Administration of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development and any successor thereto.
FHA
: That fee, as set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter, payable by Seller upon submission of the related Asset Data Record whether or not the Transaction is actually made.
File Fee
: The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and any successor thereto.
Freddie Mac
: That fee, as set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter, payable by Seller for each payment of the Purchase Price by funding draft.
Funding Draft Fee
: Generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession and that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination.
GAAP
: Government National Mortgage Association or any successor thereto.
Ginnie Mae
: Unless defined otherwise in the Transactions Terms Letter, a first lien mortgage loan, other than a Nonperforming/Subperforming Mortgage Loan, that is (a) eligible for insurance by FHA and is so insured or is subject to a current binding and enforceable commitment for such insurance pursuant to the provisions of the National Housing Act, as amended, and is otherwise eligible for inclusion in a Ginnie Mae mortgage-backed security pool; or (b) eligible to be guaranteed by the VA and is so guaranteed or is subject to a current binding and enforceable commitment for such guarantee pursuant to the provisions of the Servicemen's Readjustment Act, as amended, and is otherwise eligible for inclusion in a Ginnie Mae mortgage-backed security pool.
Government Mortgage Loan
: A guarantee signed by a Guarantor, in a form acceptable to Buyer.
Guarantee
: Those guarantors as set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter.
Guarantors
: The guide prepared by Buyer containing additional policies and procedures, as same may be amended from time to time.
Handbook
: With respect to each Transaction, if the Purchase Price is less than par, an amount equal to the difference between par and the Purchase Price, which shall be considered a "settlement payment" as defined in Bankruptcy Code Section 741(8).
Haircut
HELOC 1
st
Mortgages
: Unless defined otherwise in the Transactions Terms Letter, a first lien mortgage loan that is a home equity line of credit underwritten in accordance with Seller's underwriting guidelines for HELOCs, as same have been approved by Buyer.
 
: Unless defined otherwise in the Transactions Terms Letter, a home equity line of credit underwritten in accordance with Seller's underwriting guidelines for HELOCs, as same have been approved by Buyer.
HELOC Mortgage Loan
: The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development or any successor thereto.
HUD
: The occurrence of any of the following events:
Insolvency Event
(a)         such Person shall become insolvent or generally fail to pay, or admit in writing its inability to pay, its debts as they become due, or shall voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition under any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law or seeking dissolution, liquidation or reorganization or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator or liquidator for itself or a substantial portion of its property, assets or business or to effect a plan or other arrangement with its creditors, or shall file any answer admitting the jurisdiction of the court and the material allegations of an involuntary petition filed against it in any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding, or shall be adjudicated bankrupt, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, or such Person, or a substantial part of its property, assets or business, shall be subject to, consent to or acquiesce in the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator or liquidator for itself or a substantial property, assets or business;
(b)         corporate action shall be taken by such Person for the purpose of effectuating any of the foregoing;
(c)         an order for relief shall be entered in a case under the Bankruptcy Code in which such Person is a debtor; or
(d)         involuntary proceedings or an involuntary petition shall be commenced or filed against such Person under any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law or seeking the dissolution, liquidation or reorganization of such Person or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator or liquidator for such Person or of a substantial part of the property, assets or business of such Person, or any writ, order, judgment, warrant of attachment, execution or similar process shall be issued or levied against a substantial part of the property, assets or business of such Person, and such proceeding or petition shall not be dismissed, or such execution or similar process shall not be released, vacated or fully bonded, within sixty (60) days after commencement, filing or levy, as the case may be.
: A private mortgage insurer, which is acceptable under Buyer's Correspondent Lending Client Guide.
Insurer
: An agreement substantially in the form acceptable to Buyer.
Intercreditor Agreement
: Closing instructions, including wire instructions, in the form of issued in connection with funds disbursed for the funding of a Wet Mortgage Loan.
Irrevocable Closing Instructions
Exhibit B
: Unless defined otherwise in the Transactions Terms Letter, a first lien mortgage loan underwritten to the same high standards as a Conventional Conforming Mortgage Loan except with respect to the original principal balance, which is greater than that permitted by the Agencies but less than one million ($1,000,000) dollars.
Jumbo Mortgage Loan
: If applicable, the cash and Cash Equivalents liquidity requirement of Seller as set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter.
Liquidity
: With respect to each Transaction, the pricing rate set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter that shall be added to the Applicable Pricing Rate to determine the pricing rate for the Purchase Price.
Margin
A margin call, as defined and described in .
Margin Call
:
Section 6.3
 
A margin deficit, as defined and described in .
Margin Deficit
:
Section 6.3
: A material and adverse change with respect to (i) the business, operations, properties or financial condition of Seller or (ii) general market circumstances or conditions, including, without limitation, if any law, regulation, treaty or directive or any change therein or in the interpretation or application thereof, or any circumstance affecting the London interbank market or the repurchase market for mortgage loans or mortgage-backed securities, in either case of (i) or (ii), as such material and adverse change is determined by Buyer in its sole and good faith discretion.
Material and Adverse Change
: The maximum number of days a Purchased Mortgage Loan can be not repurchased by Seller before such Purchased Mortgage Loan may be deemed to be a Noncompliant Mortgage Loan and with respect to a Noncompliant Mortgage Loan, the maximum number of days that a Purchased Mortgage Loan can be deemed to be a Noncompliant Mortgage Loan before such Noncompliant Mortgage Loan may be deemed to be a Defective Mortgage Loan, all as set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter.
Maximum Dwell Time
Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor in interest thereto.
:
MERS
: A first-lien or second-lien mortgage, deed of trust, security deed or similar instrument on improved real property.
Mortgage
: Any security, including, without limitation, a participation certificate, that is (a) guaranteed by Ginnie Mae that represents an interest in a pool of mortgages, deeds of trusts or other instruments creating a lien on real property; (b) issued by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac that represents interests in such a pool; or (c) privately placed and represents undivided interests in or otherwise supported by such a pool.
Mortgage-Backed Securities
: A Conventional Conforming Mortgage Loan, Government Mortgage Loan, Jumbo Mortgage Loan, Super Jumbo Mortgage Loan, Expanded Criteria Mortgage Loan, Subprime Mortgage Loan, Closed-End Second Lien Mortgage Loan, HELOC Mortgage Loan or Nonperforming/Subperforming Mortgage Loan, which Mortgage Loan may be either a Dry Mortgage Loan or a Wet Mortgage Loan.
Mortgage Loan
: With respect to each Purchased Mortgage Loan:
Mortgage Loan Documents
(a)        the original Mortgage Note evidencing the Mortgage Loan, endorsed by Seller in blank, with a complete chain from the originator to Seller;
(b)         except if such Mortgage Loan is registered with MERS, an original Assignment in blank, executed by Seller, a certified or true copy of the Mortgage securing the Mortgage Note, in recordable form but unrecorded, with a complete chain of intervening assignments from the originator to Seller; and
(c)         a certified or true copy of the Mortgage securing the Mortgage Note.
: With respect to each Mortgage Loan, that file that contains the Mortgage Loan Documents and is delivered to Buyer or its Custodian.
Mortgage Loan File
: A promissory note secured by a Mortgage and evidencing a Mortgage Loan.
Mortgage Note
: The real property securing repayment of the debt evidenced by a Mortgage Note.
Mortgaged Property
: The obligor of a Mortgage Loan.
Mortgagor
: As of any date of determination, a Purchased Mortgage Loan that has been:
Noncompliant Mortgage Loan
 
(a)        not repurchased within the Maximum Dwell Time permitted, given the type of Purchased Mortgage Loan, but less than the Maximum Dwell Time for Noncompliant Mortgage Loans;
(b)        rejected by the Approved Investor set forth in the related Purchase Commitment; or
(c)        determined to be ineligible for sale as a Purchased Mortgage Loan of the type originally stipulated.
: A one-time fee, as set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter, payable by Seller for each Purchased Mortgage Loan that is deemed to be a Noncompliant Mortgage Loan.
Noncompliant Mortgage Loan Fee
: Unless defined otherwise in the Transactions Terms Letter, a first or second lien Mortgage Loan that when originated qualified as a Conventional Conforming Mortgage Loan, Government Mortgage Loan, Expanded Criteria Mortgage Loan, Subprime Mortgage Loan, Closed-End Second Lien Mortgage Loan or HELOC Mortgage Loan, however, such Mortgage Loan has a history of late payments during the past twelve months (the exact number permitted late payment to be determined by Buyer in its sole and good faith discretion) or is currently past due more than thirty (30) days.
Nonperforming/Subperforming Mortgage Loan
: Unless defined otherwise in the Transactions Terms Letter, a first lien mortgage loan underwritten to the same credit standards as a Conventional Conforming Mortgage Loan, Expanded Criteria Mortgage Loan, Jumbo Mortgage Loans or Super Jumbo Mortgage Loan and has the additional feature of combining a construction loan advance with a conversion provision to permanent financing in a single loan transaction.
One Time Close Loan
: In addition to the Mortgage Loan Documents, the following: (i) the original recorded Mortgage; (ii) the original policy of mortgagee's title insurance or unexpired commitment for a policy of mortgagee's title insurance; (iii) the original Closing Protection Letter; (iv) the original Purchase Commitment; (v) the original FHA certificate of insurance or commitment to insure, the VA certificate of guaranty or commitment to guaranty and the private mortgage insurer's certificate or commitment to insure, as applicable; (vi) the survey, flood certificate, hazard insurance policy and flood insurance policy, as applicable; (vii) the original of any assumption, modification, written assurance or substitution of liability agreement, if any; (viii) copy of each instrument necessary to complete identification of any exception set forth in the exception schedule in the title policy; (ix) the loan application; (x) verification of employment and income, if applicable; (xi) verification of source and amount of downpayment; (xii) credit report on Mortgagor; (xiii) appraisal of Mortgaged Property; (xiv) the original executed disclosure statement; (xv) Tax receipts, insurance premium receipts, ledger sheets, payment records, insurance claim files and correspondence, current and historical computerized data files, underwriting standards used for origination and all other related papers and records; and (xvi) all other documents relating to the Purchased Mortgage Loan.
Other Mortgage Loan Documents
: That account maintained by Buyer, as described in .
Over/Under Account
Section 3.5
The fifth (5
Payment Date
:
th
) day of each month, or if such date is not a Business Day, the Business Day immediately preceding the fifth (5
th
) day of the month; provided, however, Buyer may change the Payment Date from time to time upon thirty (30) days prior notice to Seller.
: Includes natural persons, corporations, limited partnerships, general partnerships, limited liability companies, joint stock companies, joint ventures, associations, companies, trusts, banks, trust companies, land trusts, business trusts or other organizations, whether or not legal entities, and governments and agencies and political subdivisions thereof.
Person
: An electronic identification number, unique to Seller, consisting of any combination of symbols, codes, letters or numerals.
Personal Identification Number or PIN
 
: Any multiemployer plan or single-employer plan as defined in section 4001 of ERISA, that is maintained and contributed to by (or to which there is an obligation to contribute of), or at any time during the five (5) calendar years preceding the date of this Agreement was maintained or contributed to by (or to which there is an obligation to contribute of), Seller or by a subsidiary of Seller or an ERISA Affiliate.
Plan
: The occurrence of any event or existence of any condition that, but for the giving of notice, the lapse of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default.
Potential Default
: That certain power of attorney attached hereto as .
Power of Attorney
Exhibit H
: This Agreement, the Transactions Terms Letter, the Electronic Transfer Agreement, any Servicing Agreement, the Guarantee(s), if applicable, and all other documents and instruments evidencing the Transactions, as same may from time to time be supplemented, modified or amended, and any other agreement entered into between Buyer and Seller in connection herewith or therewith.
Principal Agreements
: Whatever is receivable or received when Purchased Assets or proceeds are sold, collected, exchanged or otherwise disposed of, whether such disposition is voluntary or involuntary, and includes, without limitation, all rights to payment, including return premiums, with respect to any insurance relating thereto; provided that, upon the return of any amounts by Buyer to Seller pursuant to which constitute Proceeds, such returned amounts shall no longer be considered Proceeds for purposes of this Agreement.
Proceeds
Section 3.5(c)
: All taxes, fees, assessments, water, sewer and municipal charges (general or special) and all insurance premiums, leasehold payments or ground rents.
Property Charges
: In connection with each wire transfer to be made to Buyer by Seller or an Approved Investor, a written or electronic notification setting forth (a) the loan number assigned by Buyer or last name of the Mortgagor for each Mortgage Loan that is related to the Transaction in connection with which a payment is being made; (b) the amount of the wire transfer to be applied in the Transaction; and (c) the total amount of the wire.
Purchase Advice
: A trade ticket or other written commitment, in form and substance satisfactory to Buyer, issued in favor of Seller by an Approved Investor pursuant to which that Approved Investor commits to purchase one or more Purchased Mortgage Loans, along with the related correspondent or whole loan purchase agreement by and between Seller and the Approved Investor, in form and substance satisfactory to Buyer, governing the terms and conditions of any such purchases.
Purchase Commitment
: The date on which Buyer purchases a Purchased Mortgage Loan from Seller. If the Purchase Price is made by wire transfer, the Purchase Date shall be the date such funds are wired. If the Purchase Price is made by a cashiers check, the Purchase Date shall be the date such check is issued by the bank. If the Purchase Price is paid by a funding draft, the Purchase Date shall be the date that the draft is posted by the bank on which the draft is drawn.
Purchase Date
The price at which each Purchased Mortgage Loan is transferred by Seller to Buyer which shall be equal to the lesser of (A) the unpaid principal balance of the Purchased Mortgage Loan multiplied by the lesser of (i) the applicable Type Purchase Price Percentage (ii) par, (iii) the purchase price percentage committed by the related Approved Investor, if applicable or (iv) the fair market value purchase price percentage of such Mortgage Loan on the Purchase Date or (B) ninety eight percent (98%) multiplied by the lesser of (i) the purchase price committed by the related Approved Investor, if applicable or (ii) the fair market value of such Mortgage Loan.
Purchase Price
:
: All now existing and hereafter arising right, title and interest of Seller in, under and to the following:
Purchased Assets
 
(a)        all Purchased Mortgage Loans, now owned and hereafter acquired, including all Mortgage Notes and Mortgages evidencing such Mortgage Loans and the related Mortgage Loan Documents, for which a Transaction has been entered into between Buyer and Seller hereunder and for which the Repurchase Price has not been paid in full and all Mortgage Loans, including all Mortgage Notes and Mortgages evidencing such Mortgage Loans and the related Mortgage Loan Documents, which, from time to time, are delivered, or caused to be delivered, to Buyer (including delivery to a custodian or other third party on behalf of Buyer) as additional security for the performance of Seller's obligations hereunder;
(b)        all Mortgage-Backed Securities, now owned or hereafter acquired by Seller, that are supported by any Mortgage Loan constituting Purchased Assets hereunder, all right to the payment of monies in non-cash distributions on account thereof and all new, substituted and additional securities at any time issued with respect thereto;
(c)        all rights of Seller under all Purchase Commitments, now existing and hereafter arising, covering any part of the Purchased Assets, all rights to deliver such Mortgage Loans and Mortgage-Backed Securities to permanent investors and other purchasers pursuant thereto and all Proceeds resulting from the disposition of such Purchased Assets thereto;
(d)        all now existing and hereafter established accounts maintained with broker-dealers by Seller for the purpose of carrying out transactions under Purchase Commitments relating to any part of the Purchased Assets;
(e)        all now existing and hereafter arising rights of Seller to service, administer and/or collect on the Mortgage Loans included as Purchased Assets hereunder and any and all rights to the payment of monies on account thereof;
(f)        all now existing and hereafter arising accounts, contract rights and general intangibles constituting or relating to any of the Purchased Assets;
(g)        all mortgage insurance and all commitments issued by Insurers to insure or guaranty any Mortgage Loans included as Purchased Assets, including, without limitation, the right to receive all insurance proceeds and condemnation awards that may be payable in respect of the premises encumbered by any Mortgage; and all other documents or instruments delivered to Buyer in respect of the Mortgage Loans included as Purchased Assets;
(h)        All documents, files, surveys, certificates, correspondence, appraisals, computer programs, tapes, discs, cards, accounting records and other information and data of Seller relating to Mortgage Loans included as Purchased Assets;
(i)        All rights, but not any obligations or liabilities, of Seller with respect to the Approved Investors, as such rights relate to Purchased Mortgage Loans;
(j)        All property of Seller related to the Purchased Assets, in any form or capacity now or at any time hereafter in the possession or control of Buyer, including, without limitation, all deposit accounts and any funds at any time held therein, into which Proceeds of the foregoing Purchased Assets are at any time deposited;
(k)        All products and Proceeds of the foregoing Purchased Assets; and
(l)        Any funds of Seller at any time deposited or held in the Over/Under Account.
: A Mortgage Loan that has been purchased by Buyer from Seller in connection with a Transaction and which has not been repurchased by Seller hereunder.
Purchased Mortgage Loan
: An event described in Section 4043(b) of ERISA with respect to a Plan as to which the thirty (30) days notice requirement has not been waived by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
Reportable Event
 
: Any of the conditions or events set forth in .
Repurchase Acceleration Event
Section 4.2
: The date on which Seller is to repurchase a Purchased Mortgage Loan subject to a Transaction from Buyer, as specified in the related Transactions Terms Letter and/or Asset Data Record, or if not so specified, the date identified to Buyer by Seller as the date that the related Purchased Mortgage Loan is to be sold pursuant to a Purchase Commitment; provided, however, that if the Repurchase Date is not a date within the Maximum Dwell Time, Buyer may, at its discretion, deem such Purchased Mortgage Loan a Noncompliant Mortgage Loan and Buyer may pursue any rights and remedies accorded Buyer hereunder as a result thereof, including, without limitation, charging Seller any applicable fees as a result thereof. The Repurchase Date for each Purchased Mortgage Loan shall in no event occur later than one year after the Purchase Date of such Purchased Mortgage Loan.
Repurchase Date
The price at which a Purchased Mortgage Loan is to be transferred from Buyer or its designee to Seller upon termination of a Transaction, which shall be determined as the sum of (i) the Purchase Price, (ii) any applicable fees owed by Seller in connection with the Purchased Mortgage Loan and (iii) the price differential due on such Purchase Price pursuant to as of the date of such determination.
Repurchase Price
:
Section 2.6
A repurchase transaction, as defined and described in .
Repurchase Transaction
:
Section 6.6
BAC Home Loans Servicing LP, or such other entity responsible for servicing of the Purchased Mortgage Loans, which is acceptable to Buyer and approved by Buyer in writing, or any successor or permitted assigns. The initial interim Servicer shall be Seller.
Servicer
:
The notice acknowledged by the Servicer substantially in the form of hereto.
Servicer Notice
:
Exhibit K
: If the Purchased Mortgage Loans are serviced by any third party servicer, the agreement with that third party in form and substance acceptable to Buyer.
Servicing Agreement
: That fee, as set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter, payable by Seller to Buyer for each Mortgage Loan File, or portion thereof, Buyer delivers to Seller, an Approved Investor or other designee.
Shipping Fee
: As of any date of determination, the Purchased Mortgage Loan has been subject to a Transaction for less than the Maximum Dwell Time and is not a Noncompliant Mortgage Loan or a Defective Mortgage Loan.
Standard Status
: Debt of Seller that has been subordinated to Buyer as provided in this Agreement or as otherwise approved by Buyer.
Subordinated Debt
: The subservicer of the Purchased Mortgage Loans appointed by Buyer as described in of this Agreement.
Successor Servicer
Section 6.2(h)
: Unless defined otherwise in the Transactions Terms Letter, a first lien mortgage loan underwritten to the same high standards as a Conventional Conforming Mortgage Loan except with respect to the original principal balance, which is greater than one million ($1,000,000) dollars but less than the one million five hundred thousand ($1,500,000) dollars.
Super Jumbo Mortgage Loan
: Unless defined otherwise in the Transactions Terms Letter, a first lien mortgage loan underwritten to the same high standards as a Conventional Conforming Mortgage Loan except with respect to the original principal balance, which is greater that one million five hundred thousand ($1,500,000) dollars.
Super Jumbo Plus
: With respect to any Person at any date, the excess of the total assets over total liabilities of such Person on such date, each to be determined in accordance with GAAP consistent with those applied in the preparation of
Tangible Net Worth
 
Seller's financial statements less the sum of the following (without duplication): (a) the book value of all investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries, and (b) any other assets of Seller and consolidated subsidiaries that would be treated as intangibles under GAAP including, without limitation, good will, research and development costs, trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents, rights to refunds and indemnification and unamortized debt discount and expenses; provided further that, to the extent not already excluded, there shall be excluded from Tangible Net Worth, those assets of any Person which, if such Person were a HUD mortgagee, would be deemed by HUD to be non-acceptable in calculating adjusted net worth in accordance with its requirements in effect as of such date, as such requirements appear in the "Audit Guide for Use by Independent Public Accountants in Audits of HUD-Approved Nonsupervised Mortgagees, Loan Correspondents and Coinsuring Mortgagees" or any successor or replacement audit guide published by HUD. Notwithstanding the foregoing, servicing rights shall be included in the calculation of total assets.
: The sum of (a) the total liabilities of Seller on any given date of determination, to be determined in accordance with GAAP consistent with those applied in the preparation of Seller's financial statements, plus (b) to the extent not already included under GAAP, the total aggregate outstanding amount owed by Seller under any repurchase, refinance or other similar credit arrangements, plus (c) to the extent not already included under GAAP, any "off balance sheet" repurchase, refinance or other similar credit arrangements, less (d) the amount of the "Credit Off Feature," if any, as set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter less (e) if applicable, the aggregate unpaid principal balance of the outstanding Loans sold by Seller to Buyer under the Early Purchase Program Addendum (the "EPP Addendum") to Loan Purchase Agreement by and between Seller and Buyer for which the Review Period (as defined in the EPP Addendum) has not been completed.
Total Liabilities
: A transaction between Buyer and Seller as contemplated under this Agreement.
Transaction
: That time, as set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter, by which Seller must submit to Buyer certain documents in order to initiate a Transaction.
Transaction Request Deadline
: Those terms and conditions, as set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter, applicable to a specific type of Purchased Mortgage Loan.
Transaction Requirements
: The document executed by Buyer and Seller, referencing this Agreement and setting forth certain specific terms, and any additional terms, with respect to this Agreement.
Transactions Terms Letter
: With respect to each type of Purchased Mortgage Loan that corresponds to the Type, the corresponding purchase price percentage, as set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter.
Type Purchase Price Percentage
: With respect to each type of Purchased Mortgage Loan that corresponds to the Type, the corresponding annual rate of interest that shall be added to the Applicable Pricing Rate to determine the annual rate of interest for the related Purchase Price, as set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter.
Type Margin
: Any of the applicable Type Sublimits, as set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter.
Type Sublimit
: Written evidence, in form and substance acceptable to Buyer, that a Purchased Mortgage Loan has been underwritten to the satisfaction of the Approved Investor issuing the applicable Purchase Commitment.
Underwriter Approval
: The Department of Veterans Affairs and any successor thereto.
VA
: The aggregate amount of credit, committed and uncommitted, available to Seller through warehouse lines of credit, repurchase facilities or similar mortgage finance arrangements.
Warehouse Credit
: That fee, as set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter, payable by Seller for each calendar day that Seller fails to deliver to Buyer or its Custodian the Mortgage Loan Documents relating to any Wet Mortgage Loan purchased by Buyer following expiration of the Wet Mortgage Loans Maximum Dwell Time.
Wet Deficiency Fee
 
: A Mortgage Loan as to which Buyer purchases from Seller by delivering funds to the applicable Closing Agent prior to receipt by Buyer or its Custodian of the related Mortgage Loan Documents, subject to Seller's obligation to deliver the related Mortgage Loan Documents within the Wet Mortgage Loans Maximum Dwell Time.
Wet Mortgage Loan
: That period of time, as set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter, by which Seller must deliver to Buyer or its designee the Mortgage Loan Documents for a Wet Mortgage Loan.
Wet Mortgage Loans Maximum Dwell Time
: The maximum aggregate principal amount of Purchased Mortgage Loans that may be Wet Mortgage Loans at any time, as set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter.
Wet Mortgage Loans Sublimit
: That fee, as set forth in the Transactions Terms Letter, payable by Seller for each payment of the Purchase Price by wire transfer or for any payment (including the Repurchase Price) received by Buyer from Seller or its Approved Investor.
Wire Transfer Fee
 
 
 
Closing Protection Letter Issued By, if applicable:
                                             
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This letter is being sent in accordance with that Master Repurchase Agreement dated as of July 31, 2009 (the "Agreement") between Pulte Mortgage LLC ("Seller") and Bank of America, N.A. ("Buyer"), the terms of which do not affect Closing Agent except as set forth herein.
Pursuant to the Agreement, you have been identified as either:
From time to time, Buyer will wire to you, for the account of Seller, funds requested by Seller under the terms of the Agreement to be used by you for the purpose of funding such Mortgage Loan(s) and for no other purpose. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, you are not to distribute any of such funds to Seller. You must immediately return the funds to Buyer at the following account if one of the following conditions occurs:
 
 
If the Mortgage Loan Documents (as described below) have not been delivered to Seller prior to the funding of the Transaction, within forty eight (48) hours of closing any Mortgage Loan, unless otherwise instructed by Buyer, you must deliver to Seller, the following Mortgage Loan Documents:
 
 
 
 
With respect to each Mortgage Loan for which you act as Closing Agent, Seller will deliver to you final closing instructions specific to such Mortgage Loan. In the event that the terms of the final closing instructions contradict the terms of these irrevocable closing instructions, the terms of these irrevocable closing instructions shall govern. Permission to change the scheduled closing date for any Mortgage Loan beyond the time permitted herein or permission to otherwise deviate from these irrevocable closing instructions must be furnished to you in a writing signed by Buyer and Seller.
By your participation in the closing and funding of a Mortgage Loan as Closing Agent, you agree to act as Buyer's bailee with respect to such Mortgage Loan and the Mortgage Loan Documents referenced above and you thereby acknowledge your responsibility to Buyer as holder of an interest in such Mortgage Loan and to care for and protect Buyer's interest in such Mortgage Loan. Facsimile signatures on these instructions shall be deemed valid and binding to the same extent as the original.
 
 
I, , am the duly elected Secretary of Pulte Mortgage LLC ("Company"), and I hereby certify that:
                                
 
 
 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, Pulte Mortgage LLC (the "Company") desires to enter into mortgage loan purchase transactions (the "Transactions") in an aggregate amount not to exceed Thirty Five Million Dollars ($35,000,000) with Bank of America, N.A. ("Buyer") pursuant to a Master Repurchase Agreement substantially in the form attached hereto (the "Agreement").
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF MANAGERS OF THE COMPANY THAT:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I, , the duly elected of Pulte Mortgage LLC ("Seller"), do hereby certify as follows:
                            
                                
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has hereunto signed his/her name on .
                                        
 
 
Pulte Mortgage LLC ("Assignor") declares that for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, it does hereby convey, transfer, assign, deliver and give to Assignee, and hereby expressly subrogates Bank of America, N.A. ("Assignee") unto, all of Assignor's claims, demands, rights and causes of action, past, present or future, that Assignor has for loss or damage covered by the closing protection letter issued by (Title Company) attached hereto ("Closing Protection Letter") with respect to mortgage loans being purchased by Assignee. Such rights being assigned by Assignor hereunder include, without limitation, the right to demand, sue, collect, receive, protect, preserve and enforce performance under the Closing Protection Letter. Assignee shall succeed to all rights of recovery of Assignor under the Closing Protection Letter with respect to mortgage loans being purchased by Assignee and Assignor shall execute such instruments and documents necessary and proper to further secure such rights to Assignee and shall not act in any manner hereafter to prejudice or impair the rights of Assignee. Assignor hereby grants Assignee an irrevocable mandate and power of attorney coupled with an interest with full power of substitution to transact this act of assignment and subrogation.
                        
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Assignor has caused this assignment to be duly executed as of July 31, 2009.
Pulte Mortgage LLC
 
 
Pulte Mortgage LLC ("Assignor") declares that for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, it does hereby convey, transfer, assign, deliver and give to Assignee, and hereby expressly subrogates Bank of America, N.A. ("Assignee") unto, all of Assignor's claims, demands, rights and causes of action, past, present or future, that Assignor has for loss or damage covered by Assignor's fidelity bond and errors and omission policy (collectively, the "Policy") with respect to mortgage loans being purchased by Assignee. Such rights being assigned by Assignor hereunder include, without limitation, the right to demand, sue, collect, receive, protect, preserve and enforce performance under the Policy. Assignee shall succeed to all rights of recovery of Assignor under the Policy with respect to mortgage loans being purchased by Assignee and Assignor shall execute such instruments and documents necessary and proper to further secure such rights to Assignee and shall not act in any manner hereafter to prejudice or impair the rights of Assignee. Assignor hereby grants Assignee an irrevocable mandate and power of attorney coupled with an interest with full power of substitution to transact this act of assignment and subrogation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Assignor has caused this assignment to be duly executed as of July 31, 2009.
Pulte Mortgage LLC
 
 
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:
WHEREAS, Bank of America, N.A. ("Buyer") and Pulte Mortgage LLC ("Seller") have entered into the Master Repurchase Agreement, dated as of July 31, 2009 (the "Agreement"), pursuant to which Buyer has agreed to purchase from Seller certain mortgage loans from time to time, subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein;
WHEREAS, Seller has agreed to give to Buyer a power of attorney on the terms and conditions contained herein in order for Buyer to take any action that Buyer may deem necessary or advisable to accomplish the purposes of the Agreement;
NOW, THEREFORE, Seller hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints Buyer its true and lawful Attorney-in-Fact, with full power and authority hereby conferred in its name, place and stead and for its use and benefit, to do and perform the following in connection with mortgage loan purchased by Buyer from Seller under the Agreement (the "Purchased Assets") or as otherwise provided below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seller hereby ratifies and confirms all that said Attorney-in-Fact shall lawfully do or cause to be done by authority hereof.
Third parties without actual notice may rely upon the power granted under this Power of Attorney upon the exercise of such power by the Attorney-in-Fact.
Pulte Mortgage LLC
 
 
WITNESS my hand this day of , 20.
                    
                        
      
STATE OF
                            
County of
                              
This instrument was acknowledged, subscribed and sworn to before me this day of , by
                
                              
                                                                         
 
My Commission Expires:
                    
 
 
Pulte Mortgage LLC ("Seller") has entered into a Master Repurchase Agreement with Bank of America, N.A. ("Buyer"). In connection therewith, Seller is being provided access to the website at www.warehouselending.com (the "Website"). As consideration for being provided access to and use of the Website, Seller agrees that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
By signing below you acknowledge your agreement to the terms and conditions set forth herein. Facsimile signatures shall be deemed valid and binding to the same extent as the original.
SELLER AUTHORIZATIONS:
Any of the persons whose signatures and titles appear below, or attached hereto, are authorized, acting singly, to act for the Seller under this Agreement as an Authorized Representative.
 
 
 
Seller's Wire Instructions:
 
Buyer's Wire Instructions:
 
These wiring instructions may not be changed except by an authorized representative of Buyer or Seller, as applicable. Buyer shall be entitled to rely on these wiring instructions without further inquiry or verification.
 
[], as Servicer
                                
[ADDRESS]
Attention:
            
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
[] ("") is servicing certain mortgage loans for Seller pursuant to that certain Servicing Agreement between Servicer and Seller. Pursuant to the Repurchase Agreement between Buyer and Seller, Servicer is hereby notified that Seller may from time to time sell to Buyer certain mortgage loans which are then currently being serviced by Servicer.
                            
Servicer
Upon receipt of notice from Buyer in which Buyer shall identify the mortgage loans which are then sold to Buyer under the Repurchase Agreement (the ""), Servicer shall segregate all amounts collected on account of such Mortgage Loans, hold them in trust for the sole and exclusive benefit of Buyer, and remit such collections in accordance with Buyer's written instructions. Further, Servicer shall follow the instructions of Buyer with respect to the Mortgage Loans, and shall deliver to Buyer any information with respect to the Mortgage Loans as reasonably requested by Buyer.
Mortgage Loans
Notwithstanding any contrary information which may be delivered to the Servicer by Seller, Servicer may conclusively rely on any information delivered by Buyer, and Seller shall indemnify and hold the Servicer harmless for any and all claims asserted against it for any actions taken in good faith by the Servicer in connection with the delivery of such information.
Please acknowledge receipt of this instruction letter by signing in the signature block below and forwarding an executed copy to Buyer promptly upon receipt. Any notices to Buyer should be delivered to the following addresses: Bank of America, N.A., [ADDRESS]; Attention:; Telephone: []; Facsimile: [].
            
            
 
ACKNOWLEDGED:
 
 
. Seller represents and warrants to and covenants with Buyer that the following are true and correct as of the Effective Date through and until the date on which all obligations of Seller under this Agreement are fully satisfied:
Representations and Warranties Concerning Seller
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. Seller represents and warrants to and covenants with Buyer that the following are true and correct with respect to each Purchased Mortgage Loan as of the related Purchase Date through and until the date on which such Purchased Mortgage Loan is repurchased by Seller:
Representations and Warranties Concerning Purchased Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
July 31, 2009
 
Pulte Mortgage LLC
7475 S. Joliet Street
Englewood, CO 80112
Attn: Dave Bruining, CFO
Email: dave.bruining@pulte.com
Re: Transactions Terms Letter for Master Repurchase Agreement
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This Transactions Terms Letter is made and entered into, as of the date set forth above, by and between Bank of America, N.A. ("Buyer") and Pulte Mortgage LLC ("Seller"). This Transactions Terms Letter supplements the Master Repurchase Agreement (the "Agreement") by and between Buyer and Seller. In the event there exists any inconsistency between the Agreement and this Transactions Terms Letter, the latter shall be controlling notwithstanding anything contained in the Agreement to the contrary. All capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Agreement.
 
 
 
 
Pulte Mortgage LLC
July 31, 2009
Page 2
 
 
Pulte Mortgage LLC
July 31, 2009
Page 3
 
 
Pulte Mortgage LLC
July 31, 2009
Page 4
 
 
Pulte Mortgage LLC
July 31, 2009
Page 5
 
 
 
 
Pulte Mortgage LLC
July 31, 2009
Page 6
 
Please acknowledge your agreement to the terms and conditions of this Transactions Terms Letter by signing in the appropriate space below and returning a copy of the same to the undersigned. Facsimile signatures shall be deemed valid and binding to the same extent as the original. Buyer shall have no obligation to honor the terms and conditions of this Transactions Terms Letter if Seller fails to fully execute and return this document to Buyer within thirty (30) days after the date of issuance.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
This Early Purchase Program Addendum to Loan Purchase Agreement (this "Addendum") is made and entered into as of July 31, 2009 by and between Bank of America, N.A. ("Bank of America") and Pulte Mortgage LLC ("Seller"). This Addendum supplements that certain Loan Purchase Agreement dated July 16, 1999 by and between Bank of America and Seller (including any and all Commitments, Amendments, Addenda, and Assignments related thereto, collectively, the "Loan Purchase Agreement"). All capitalized terms used in this Addendum and not otherwise defined herein shall have the same meanings as set forth in the Loan Purchase Agreement and/or the Bank of America Correspondent Lending Seller's Guide (the "Guide"), as applicable.
 
 
 
In consideration of the mutual promises contained herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, Bank of America and Seller hereby agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The foregoing representations and warranties are in addition to any other representations and warranties set forth in the Program Agreements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seller shall notify Bank of America immediately upon the occurrence of such an event, but in no event later than three (3) business days after such occurrence. Such notice shall be in writing and include reasonable detail of the nature and scope of the occurrence.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Bank of America and Seller have executed this Addendum by and through their duly authorized representatives as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I. Disbursement of Funds
 
 
Bank:
ABA:
Name:
Account No.:
Reference:
II. Approved Payees.
 
 
or
 
or
 
 
or
 
 
 
 
 
Collateral Documents:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I, , am the duly elected Secretary of Pulte Mortgage LLC
                                                                             
("Company"), and I hereby certify that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The undersigned, being all of the Managers currently in office of Pulte Mortgage LLC ("Company"), hereby consent to and adopt the following resolutions as if at a meeting of the Board of Managers held on the date first above written:
WHEREAS, the Company desires to sell mortgage loans to Bank of America, N.A. ("Bank of America") under an Early Purchase Program Addendum to Loan Purchase Agreement by and between Bank of America and Company (the "Early Purchase Program").
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY THAT:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESOLVED, FURTHER, that all actions heretofore taken by any authorized officer of the Company in connection with the transactions contemplated by the foregoing resolutions be, and each such action hereby is, approved, ratified and affirmed in all respects.
This written consent may be executed by the several members of this Board of Managers in counterparts. All the counterparts, or the signed signature pages thereof attached to one counterpart, shall constitute the appropriate approval of this written consent and shall be filed with the Minutes of the proceedings of this Board of Managers.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being all of the Managers of the Company, have executed this Unanimous Written Consent, effective as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*No more than 7% EPP Loans at any given time shall be subject to a Review Period Extension.
 
 
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:
WHEREAS, Bank of America, N.A. ("Bank of America") and Pulte Mortgage LLC ("Seller") have entered into the Early Purchase Program Addendum to Loan Purchase Agreement, dated as of July 31, 2009 (the "EPP Addendum"), pursuant to which Bank of America has agreed to purchase loans from Seller under an early purchase program subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein; and
WHEREAS, Seller has agreed to give to Bank of America a power of attorney on the terms and conditions contained herein in order for Bank of America to take any action that Bank of America may deem necessary or advisable to accomplish the purposes of the EPP Addendum;
NOW, THEREFORE, Seller hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints Bank of America its true and lawful Attorney-in-Fact, with full power and authority hereby conferred in its name, place and stead and for its use and benefit, to do and perform the following in connection with the loans to be sold by Seller to Bank of America under the EPP Addendum (the "EPP Loans") or as otherwise provided below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Seller hereby ratifies and confirms all that said Attorney-in-Fact shall lawfully do or cause to be done by authority hereof.
Third parties without actual notice may rely upon the power granted under this Power of Attorney upon the exercise of such power by the Attorney-in-Fact.
 
 
WITNESS my hand this day of , 20.
                                
                                                 
    
STATE OF
                                
County of
                                
This instrument was acknowledged, subscribed and sworn to before me this day of , by
                                
                                             
                                                                                          
 
My Commission Expires:
                                
 
 
Bank of America Warehouse Lending offers an automated function for its customers to sell loans sold by Seller to Bank of America Warehouse Lending under the master repurchase agreement to Bank of America Correspondent Lending under Bank of America's Early Purchase Program ("EPP Program").
Once the collateral is received by Bank of America Warehouse Lending and a Bank of America Correspondent Lending loan number is assigned such loan, Bank of America Warehouse Lending can automatically sell such loans on behalf of Seller to Bank of America Correspondent Lending under the EPP Program. A Bank of America Correspondent Lending loan number can be created by the following methods:
 
I hereby authorize the sale of eligible loans currently sold by Seller to Bank of America Warehouse Lending under the master repurchase agreement to be sold by Bank of America Warehouse Lending on behalf of Seller to Bank of America Correspondent Lending pursuant to the EPP program.
 
Name:
Title:
 


