FILE:PHM/PHM-8K-20090211133254.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mr. Schweninger will receive an annual base salary of $250,000. He will also participate in the Annual Program ("AIP") and the Long Term Program ("LTI") under the Company's 2008 Senior Management Incentive Plan. Under the AIP, Mr. Schweninger will have a 2009 target award of 60% of his base salary, the payout for which can be higher or lower depending on the Company's performance in relation to performance goals set by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. The AIP award is subject to pro-ration based on the portion of the 2009 annual incentive period actually worked. Under the LTI, Mr. Schweninger will have a target award for the 2009-2011 performance cycle of 60% of his base salary, the payout for which can be higher or lower depending on individual performance and the Company's financial performance in relation to performance goals set by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Mr. Schweninger's LTI Award is subject to pro-ration based on the portion of the LTI performance period actually worked. The payment of any award earned by a participant for the 2009 fiscal year under the LTI is conditioned upon the continued employment of the participant by the Company until December 31, 2011 (subject to earlier vesting in specific circumstances), at which time the award will vest and become payable. Mr. Schweninger may also receive equity grants from time to time at the discretion of the Compensation Committee and will participate in employee benefit plans generally available to all employees on the same terms as similarly-situated employees.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


