FILE:PHM/PHM-8K-20090818171703.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
On August 18, 2009, Pulte Homes, Inc. ("Pulte") completed the acquisition of Centex Corporation ("Centex") through the merger of Pulte's merger subsidiary with and into Centex (the "Merger") pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of April 7, 2009 among Pulte, Pi Nevada Building Company and Centex (the "Merger Agreement"). As a result of the Merger, Centex became a wholly owned subsidiary of Pulte. A copy of the press release announcing the results of the Pulte and Centex shareholder meetings is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
As a result of the Merger, each outstanding share of Centex common stock and restricted stock, other than shares owned by Pulte, its merger subsidiary or Centex, was converted into the right to receive 0.975 of a share (the "Exchange Ratio") of Pulte common stock (plus cash in lieu of fractional shares). Additionally, each outstanding Centex stock option was converted into a vested Pulte stock option, with adjustments to reflect the Exchange Ratio, each outstanding Centex restricted or deferred stock unit was converted into a restricted or deferred stock unit with respect to Pulte common stock, with adjustments to reflect the Exchange Ratio, and each outstanding Centex performance unit award was converted into an amount in cash reflecting the fair market value of Centex common stock immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger.
Effective August 18, 2009, Richard J. Dugas, Jr., Pulte's President and Chief Executive Officer, was appointed Chairman of Pulte's Board of Directors, succeeding Pulte's former Chairman, William J. Pulte. Mr. Pulte will continue to serve as a director and employee of Pulte and will continue to receive an annual salary of $1 million. On August 18, 2009, the Compensation Committee adjusted Mr. Pulte's 2009 bonus opportunity under the Company's Annual Incentive Program to a maximum payout of $500,000. In addition, Mr. Pulte will no longer participate in the Company's Long Term Incentive ("LTI") Program beginning with the year ending December 31, 2009 (except to the extent that all earned LTI awards prior to 2009 will be paid pursuant to the terms of the LTI Program) and he will no longer be eligible for any annual equity grants.
Effective August 18, 2009 and pursuant to the Merger Agreement, William B. Smith and Richard G. Wolford resigned from the Board of Directors, and Timothy R. Eller, Clint W. Murchison, III, James J. Postl and Thomas M. Schoewe were appointed to the Board of Directors to hold office until the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Mr. Eller will serve on Pulte's Finance Committee, Mr. Murchison will serve on the Nominating and Governance Committee, Mr. Schoewe will serve on the Audit Committee and Mr. Postl will serve on the Compensation Committee.
As previously disclosed, Mr. Eller is party to a Consulting Agreement with Pulte (the "Consulting Agreement"), which became effective upon the completion of the Merger. Pursuant to the Consulting Agreement, Mr. Eller resigned his positions with Centex and became vice chairman of Pulte's Board of Directors and a consultant to Pulte, reporting to Pulte's chief executive officer, with the consulting period and board service to continue for 24 months
 
following the completion of the Merger. Mr. Eller also received a grant to purchase 650,000 shares of Pulte common stock at an exercise price of $12.335 per share, the average of the high and low trading prices of Pulte common stock on August 18, 2009, which stock options have a 10-year term and become exercisable in two equal installments on August 18, 2010 and August 18, 2011. Additionally, Mr. Eller is entitled to all payments and benefits under the Centex Corporation Plan Regarding Severance After a Change in Control resulting from a termination for "good reason," plus an additional payment of $293,000, and all of his Centex equity awards vested in full, with his stock options becoming exercisable for their full term.
The Consulting Agreement also provides that Pulte (1) will pay to Mr. Eller board fees equal to the fees paid to other non-chairman directors of Pulte, an annual consulting fee of $750,000 and an annual guaranteed performance bonus of $300,000, and (2) will provide Mr. Eller during the consulting period with an office and an administrative assistant in Dallas. Upon a termination of the consulting period for any reason, except by Pulte for "cause" or by Mr. Eller without "good reason" (as defined in the Consulting Agreement), Mr. Eller would be entitled to the consulting fees and guaranteed performance bonuses that would have been payable over the remainder of the consulting period, and equity awards in respect of board fees not yet paid. In addition, his equity awards would vest in full, with his stock options remaining exercisable for their full term. During the period that Mr. Eller renders services under the Consulting Agreement, Mr. Eller will be subject to a standard non-competition and non-solicitation covenant provided by senior executive officers of Pulte.
The foregoing summary of the Consulting Agreement is qualified in its entirety by the terms and conditions of the Consulting Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
On August 18, 2009, the Compensation Committee of Pulte's Board of Directors granted stock options to certain of Pulte's executive officers, including grants of options to acquire 250,000, 150,000, 150,000 and 60,000 shares of Pulte common stock to Mr. Dugas, Steven C. Petruska, Roger A. Cregg and Peter J. Keane, respectively, at an exercise price of $12.335 per share, the average of the high and low trading prices of Pulte common stock on August 18, 2009. Each award was granted under Pulte's 2004 Stock Incentive Plan and has a ten-year term and vests over a four-year period.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On August 18, 2009, Pulte amended its Restated Articles of Incorporation to increase the total number of shares of common stock that Pulte is authorized to issue from 400,000,000 to 500,000,000, following the receipt of shareholder approval. A conformed copy of the Restated Articles of Incorporation of Pulte Homes, Inc., as amended, is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01 Other Events
On August 18, 2009, Pulte shareholders approved a proposal to amend Pulte's Restated Articles of Incorporation to change Pulte's corporate name from "Pulte Homes, Inc." to "PulteGroup, Inc." The name change will not become effective until Pulte files a certificate of amendment to
 
Pulte's Restated Articles of Incorporation with the Michigan Department of Energy, Labor and Economic Growth.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
The name of the corporation is: Pulte Homes, Inc.
 
 
The purpose or purposes for which the corporation is formed are: The purpose or purposes for which the Corporation is organized is to engage in any activity within the purposes for which Corporations may be organized under the Michigan Business Corporation Act.
 
 
The total authorized shares:
 
 
2.   A statement of all or any of the relative rights, preferences and limitations of the shares of each class is as follows:
 
Provisions Relating to Preferred Stock
 
The Board of Directors may cause the Corporation to issue Preferred Stock in one or more series, each series to bear a distinctive designation and to have such relative rights and preferences as shall be prescribed by resolution of the Board; such resolutions, when filed, shall constitute amendments to these Articles of Incorporation. Without limiting the generality of the grant of authority contained in the preceding sentence, the Board of Directors is authorized to determine any or all of the following, and the shares of each series may vary from the shares of any other series in any or all of the following respects:
 
a. The number of shares of such series (which may subsequently be increased, except as otherwise provided by the resolutions of the Board of Directors providing for the issue of such series, or decreased to a number not less than the number of shares then outstanding) and the distinctive designation thereof;
 
b. The dividend rights, if any, of such series; the dividend preferences, if any, as between such series and any other class or series of stock; whether and the extent to which shares of such series shall be entitled to participate in dividends with shares of any other series or class of stock; whether and the extent to which dividends on such series shall be cumulative; and any limitations, restrictions or conditions on the payment of such dividends;
 
c. The time or times during which, the price or prices at which, and any other terms or conditions on which the shares of such series may be redeemed, if redeemable;
 
d. The rights of such series, and the preferences, if any, as between such series and any other class or series of stock, in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and whether and the extent to which shares of any such series shall be entitled to participate in such event with any other class or series of stock;
 
e. The voting powers, if any, in addition to the voting powers prescribed by law, of shares of such series, and the terms of exercise of such voting powers;
 
f. Whether shares of such series shall be convertible into or exchangeable for shares of other series or class of stock, or of any series of the same class, or any other securities, and the terms and conditions, if any, applicable to such right;
 
g. The terms and conditions, if any, of any purchase, retirement or sinking fund which may be provided for the shares of such series; and
 
h. Any other preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, in relation to stock of any other class or series thereof or of any other series of the same class, as shall not be inconsistent with law or the provisions of this Article III.
 
 
1. The address of the registered office is:
 
601 Abbott Road
East Lansing, Michigan 48823
 
2. The mailing address of the registered office, if different than above: N/A
 
3. The name of the resident agent at the registered office is:
 
CSC-Lawyers Incorporating Service (Company)
 
 
The name and address of the incorporator is as follows:
 
Susan Morris, 2290 First National Building, Detroit, Michigan 48226
 
 
Any action required or permitted by the Act to be taken at an annual or special meeting of shareholders may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice, and without a vote, if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, is signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take the action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereof were present and voted.
 
Prompt notice of the taking of the corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to the shareholders who have not consented in writing.
 
 
Pursuant to Section 784(1)(b) of the Michigan Business Corporation Act, the Corporation expressly elects not be governed by Chapter 7A of the Michigan Business Corporation Act, being Sections 775 through 784 of the Michigan Business Corporation Act; provided that the Corporation's Board of Directors may terminate this election in whole or in part by action of the majority of directors then in office.
 
 
A director of the Corporation shall not be personally liable to the Corporation or its shareholders for monetary damages for breach of the director's fiduciary duty. However, this Article VIII shall not eliminate or limit the liability of a director for any of the following:
 
1. A breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its shareholders.
 
2. Acts or omissions not in good faith or that involve intentional misconduct or knowing violation of law.
 
3. A violation of Section 551(1) of the Michigan Business Corporation Act.
 
4. A transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit.
 
5. An act or omission occurring before the effective date of this Article.
 
Any repeal or modification of this Article by the shareholders of the Corporation shall not adversely affect any right or protection of any director of the Corporation existing at the time of, or for or with respect to, any acts or omissions occurring before such repeal or modification.
 
 
The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of a Board of Directors consisting of not less than three (3), or more than fifteen (15) directors, the exact number of directors to be determined from time to time solely by a resolution adopted by an affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors. The directors shall be divided into three (3) classes, designated Class I, Class II and Class III. Each class shall consist, as nearly as may be possible, of one-third (1/3) of the total number of directors constituting the entire Board of Directors. At the 1988 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, Class I directors shall be elected for a one-year term. Class II directors for a two-year term and Class III directors for a three-year term. At each succeeding annual meeting of shareholders, commencing in 1989, successors to the class of directors whose term expires at that annual meeting shall be elected for a three-year term.
 
If the number of directors is changed, any increase or decrease shall be apportioned among the classes of directors so as to maintain the number of directors in each class as nearly equal as possible, but in no case shall a decrease in the number of directors shorten the term of any incumbent director. When the number of directors is increased by the Board of Directors and any newly created directorships are filled by the Board, there shall be no classification of the additional directors until the next annual meeting of shareholders.
 
A director shall hold office until the meeting for the year in which his or her term expires and until his or her successor shall be elected and shall qualify, subject, however, to prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office. Newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the number of directors and any vacancy on the Board of Directors for any reason whatsoever shall be filled only by an affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors then in office. If the number of directors then in office is less than a quorum, such newly created directorships and vacancies shall be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director. A director elected by the Board of Directors to fill a vacancy shall hold office until the next meeting of shareholders called for the election of directors and until his or her successor shall be elected and shall qualify.
 
Nominations for the election of directors shall be made as set forth in the Bylaws of the Corporation.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever the holders of any one or more classes of preferred stock or series thereof issued by the Corporation shall have the right, voting separately by class or series, to elect directors at an annual or special meeting of shareholders, the election, term of office, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorship shall be governed by the terms of these Articles of Incorporation applicable thereto, and such directors so elected shall not be divided into classes pursuant to this Article IX.
 
 
A. In addition to any affirmative vote required by law or these Articles of Incorporation, and except as provided in Section B of this Article X:
 
1. Any merger or consolidation of the Corporation or any subsidiary with either;
 
(i)  Any Interested Shareholder;
 
(ii) Any other corporation, whether or not itself an Interested Shareholder, which is, or after the merger or consolidation would be, an Affiliate of an Interested Shareholder that was an Interested Shareholder prior to the transaction;
 
2. Any sale, lease, transfer, or other disposition, except in the usual and regular course of business, in one transaction or a series of transactions in any twelve-month period, to any Interested Shareholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Shareholder, other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, of any
 
assets of the Corporation or any subsidiary having, measured at the time the transaction or transactions are approved by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, an aggregate book value at the end of the Corporation's most recently ended fiscal quarter of ten percent (10%) or more of its consolidated net worth;
 
3. The issuance or transfer by the Corporation, or any subsidiary, in one transaction or a series of transactions in any twelve-month period, of any Equity Securities of the Corporation or any subsidiary which have an aggregate market value of five percent (5%) or more of the total market value of the outstanding shares of the Corporation to any Interested Shareholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Shareholder, other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, except pursuant to the exercise of warrants or rights to purchase securities offered pro rata to all holders of the Corporation's voting shares or any other method affording substantially proportionate treatment to the holders of voting shares;
 
4. The adoption of any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation proposed by or on behalf of an Interested Shareholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Shareholder;
 
5. Any reclassification of securities, including any reverse stock split, or recapitalization of the Corporation, or any merger, consolidation, or share exchange of the Corporation with any of its subsidiaries which has the effect, directly or indirectly, in one transaction or a series of transactions in any twelve-month period, of increasing the proportionate amount of the outstanding shares of any class of Equity Securities of the Corporation or any subsidiary which is directly or indirectly owned by any Interested Shareholder or any Affiliate of any Interested Shareholder; and
 
6. Any agreement, contract or other arrangement providing for one or more of the foregoing.
 
shall require the affirmative vote of the holders of at least sixty-nine and three tenths percent (69.3%) of the shares voting on the proposed Business Combination (as defined below) at the meeting of shareholders. Such affirmative vote shall be required notwithstanding the fact that no vote may be required, or that a lesser percentage may be specified, by law or in any agreement with any national securities exchange or otherwise.
 
B. The provisions of Section A of this Article X shall not be applicable to any particular Business Combination, and such Business Combination shall require only such affirmative vote as is required by law and any other provisions of these Articles of Incorporation if:
 
1. The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall have approved such Business Combination and either (i) the Interested Shareholder has been an Interested Shareholder continuously for period of at least two (2) years prior to the date on which the Board approved such Business Combination, or (ii) such proposed transaction was approved by the Board prior to the time the Interested Shareholder became an Interested Shareholder; or
 
2.  A majority of the outstanding shares of stock of such other corporation is owned of record or beneficially, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation or its subsidiaries.
 
C. For the purpose of this Article X:
 
1.  shall mean any transaction referred to in any one or more of clauses A.1 through A.5 above.
"Business Combination"
 
2. A shall mean any individual or firm, corporation, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture, trust, unincorporated association or other entity.
"person"
 
3.  means any person other than the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation who is either:
"Interested Shareholder"
 
a. The Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of ten percent (10%) or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock of the Corporation.
 
b. An Affiliate of the Corporation that at any time within the two-year period immediately prior to the date in question was the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of ten percent (10%) or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the Corporation.
 
c. For the purpose of determining whether a person is an Interested Shareholder pursuant to subdivision C.3.a or C.3.b, the number of shares of voting stock considered to be outstanding shall include all voting stock owned by the person except for those shares which may be issuable pursuant to any agreement, arrangement, or understanding, or upon exercise of conversion rights, warrants or options, or otherwise.
 
4. Beneficial Owner", when used with respect to any voting stock, means a person who:
 
a. Individually or with any of its Affiliates or Associates, beneficially owns voting stock, directly or indirectly.
 
b. Individually or with any of its Affiliates or Associates has:
 
(1) The right to acquire shares, whether the right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time, pursuant to any agreement, arrangement, or understanding or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, warrants or options, or otherwise.
 
(2) The right to vote voting shares pursuant to any agreement, arrangement, or understanding.
 
(3) Any agreement, arrangement, or understanding for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting or disposing of voting shares with any other person who beneficially owns, or whose Affiliates or Associates beneficially own, directly or indirectly, the voting shares.
 
5.  or means a person who directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, a specified person.
"Affiliate"
"Affiliated Person"
 
6.  when used to indicate a relationship with any person, means any one of the following:
"Associate"
 
a. Any corporation or organization, other than the Corporation or a subsidiary of the Corporation, in which the person is an officer, director, or partner, or is, directly or indirectly, the beneficial owner of ten percent (10%) or more of any class of Equity Securities.
 
b. Any trust or other estate in which the person has a beneficial interest of ten percent (10%) or more or as to which the person serves as trustee or in a similar fiduciary capacity in connection with the trust or estate.
 
c. Any relative or spouse of the person, or any relative of the spouse, who has the same home as the person or who is a director or officer of the Corporation or any of its Affiliates.
 
7.  or means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise. The beneficial ownership of ten percent (10%) or more of the voting shares of a corporation shall create a presumption of control.
"Control", "controlling", "controlled by",
"under common control with"
 
8.  means any one of the following:
"Equity Security"
 
a. Any stock or similar security, certificate of interest, or participation in any profit sharing agreement, voting trust certificate, or voting share.
 
b. Any security convertible, with or without consideration, into an Equity Security, or any warrant or other security carrying any right to subscribe to or purchase an Equity Security.
 
c. Any put, call, straddle, or other option or privilege of buying an Equity Security from or selling an Equity Security to another without being bound to do so.
 
The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall have the power and duty to determine for the purposes of this Article X, on the basis of the information known to them after reasonable inquiry, (A) whether a person is
 
an Interested Shareholder, (B) the number of shares of voting stock beneficially owned by any persons, and (C) whether a person is an Affiliate or an Associate of another.
 
Nothing contained in this Article X shall be construed to relieve any Interested Shareholder from any fiduciary obligation imposed by law.
 
In accordance with the provisions of Article XI of these Articles of Incorporation, this Article X may only be amended by the affirmative vote of sixty-nine and three tenths percent (69.3%) of the shares voting on the proposed amendment at a meeting of shareholders, in addition to the vote otherwise required by the Michigan Business Corporation Act.
 
 
Anything contained in these Articles of Incorporation to the contrary Article X and this Article XI of these Articles of Incorporation shall not be altered, amended, changed or repealed and no provision inconsistent with the intent or purpose of such provisions shall be adopted without the affirmative vote of sixty-nine and three tenths percent (69.3%) of the shares voting at a meeting of shareholders, in addition to the vote otherwise required by the Michigan Business Corporation Act.

Exhibit 99.1
 Pulte Homes (NYSE: PHM) and Centex Corporation (NYSE: CTX) announced that, at a special meeting of shareholders held today by each company, shareholders overwhelmingly approved the merger of Pulte Homes and Centex. Pulte Homes and Centex received votes representing more than 80% and 72%, respectively, of shares outstanding, with more than 99% of these voted in support of the transaction.
Bloomfield Hills, MI, August 18, 2009
Under terms of the merger agreement, Pulte Homes will acquire all outstanding shares of common stock of Centex Corporation in a stock-for-stock transaction. Centex shareholders receive .975 shares of Pulte Homes stock in exchange for each Centex share they own. Based on the exchange rate, Pulte shareholders own approximately 68% of the combined company, and Centex shareholders own approximately 32%.
The new Company, with 2008 pro forma closings of 39,000 homes and revenues of $11.6 billion, will continue to trade on the NYSE under the ticker symbol "PHM." The Company will operate more than 900 communities across 29 states and the District of Columbia, and will serve all major customer segments through its family of brands that includes Pulte Homes, Centex and Del Webb.
Pulte Homes will retain its corporate headquarters in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan.
Richard Dugas, whose previously announced appointment to the positions of Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer is effective today, said, "Combining these two industry leaders creates tremendous opportunities for our customers, employees and shareholders. Our shared commitment to product quality and customer service, combined with the complementary brands, land positions and building models make this a powerful merger that can accelerate our return to profitability.
"Having already invested thousands of hours in planning, we can begin integration of our organizations immediately and start capturing the cost savings and business benefits that make this
 
merger so compelling. We continue to target $250 million in corporate and field overhead savings and, on August 11, 2009, we announced a tender for $1.5 billion in debt that upon completion will enable us to save approximately $100 million in annual interest expense."
Effective with the completion of this merger, Timothy Eller, previously Centex's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, joins the Company's Board of Directors as Vice Chairman and will serve as a consultant to the Company for two years.
About Pulte Homes
With its merger complete, Pulte Homes, Inc., based in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., is America's largest home building company with operations in 59 markets and 29 states. The Company has an unmatched capacity to meet the needs of all buyer segments through its brand portfolio that includes Pulte Homes, Centex and Del Webb, as well as its regional brands of DiVosta Homes (Florida) and Fox & Jacobs (Texas). Pulte Mortgage LLC is a nationwide lender offering Pulte customers a wide variety of loan products and superior service.
Websites: www.pulteinc.com; www.pulte.com; www.centex.com; www.delwebb.com; www.divosta.com; .
www.foxandjacobs.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This document includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements may include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the proposed transaction, including future financial and operating results, and the combined company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. These statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities, as well as those of the markets we serve or intend to serve, to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events. Generally, the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "may," "can," "could," "might," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to expected operating and performing results, planned transactions, planned objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future.
Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among other things: the possibility that the expected efficiencies and cost savings of the merger of Pulte and Centex will not be realized, or will not be realized within the expected time period; the risk that the Pulte and Centex businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the proposed transaction making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; continued volatility in, and potential further deterioration of, the debt and equity markets; competition within the industries in which the Company operates; the availability and cost of land and raw materials used by the Company in its homebuilding operations; the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with the Company's businesses; shortages and the cost of labor; adverse weather conditions which may slowdown the construction of, or damage, new homes built by the Company; slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; the ability to utilize net operating losses, built-in losses and other tax credit carryforwards; governmental regulation, including the interpretation of tax, labor and environmental laws; changes in consumer confidence and preferences; terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. See Pulte's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a
 
further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to the Company's businesses. The Company does not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in our respective expectations.


