FILE:PHM/PHM-8K-20090306133141.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 5, 2009, the board of directors of Pulte Homes, Inc. ("PHM") adopted a Section 382 rights agreement and declared a dividend distribution of one right for each outstanding common share to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 16, 2009. The description and terms of the rights are set forth in a Section 382 Rights Agreement, by and between PHM and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as rights agent, dated as of March 5, 2009 (the "rights plan"). The PHM board of directors also adopted resolutions on March 5, 2009 providing for the issuance of a series of preferred shares of PHM, par value $.01 per share, designated as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Shares, as set forth in a Certificate of Designation of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Shares. The Certificate of Designation became effective on March 5, 2009.
The PHM board of directors adopted the rights plan in an effort to protect shareholder value by attempting to protect against a possible limitation on PHM's ability to use its net operating loss carryforwards (the "NOLs") and certain other tax benefits to reduce potential future U.S. federal income tax obligations. If PHM experiences an "ownership change," as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and the regulations promulgated by the United States Department of the Treasury thereunder (the "related Treasury regulations"), its ability to fully utilize the NOLs and certain other tax benefits on an annual basis will be substantially limited, and the timing of the usage of the NOLs and such other benefits could be substantially delayed, which could therefore significantly impair the value of those assets.
The rights plan is intended to act as a deterrent to any person or group, together with its affiliates and associates, being or becoming the beneficial owner of 4.9% or more of PHM securities (such person or group is referred to as an "acquiring person"). The term "acquiring person" does not include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A shareholder who together with its affiliates and associates beneficially owned 4.9% or more of PHM securities as of March 5, 2009 is deemed not to be an "acquiring person," so long as such shareholder does not acquire any additional shares of PHM securities without the prior written approval of PHM, other than pursuant to or as a result of (a) a reduction in the amount of PHM securities outstanding; (b) the exercise of any options, warrants, rights or similar interests to purchase PHM securities granted by PHM to its directors, officers and employees; (c) any unilateral grant of any PHM securities by PHM or (d) any issuance of PHM securities by PHM or any share dividend, share split or similar transaction effected by PHM in which all holders of PHM securities are treated equally. Such a shareholder is a "grandfathered person" for purposes of the rights plan.
 
The board of directors of PHM may, in its sole discretion, exempt any person or group who would otherwise be an acquiring person from being deemed an acquiring person for purposes of the rights plan if it determines at any time prior to the time at which the rights are no longer redeemable that the beneficial ownership of such Person would not jeopardize, endanger or limit (in timing or amount) the availability of PHM's NOLs and other tax benefits. Any such person or group is an "exempted person" under the rights plan. The board of directors, in its sole discretion, may subsequently make a contrary determination and such person would then become an acquiring person.
An "exempted transaction" is a transaction that the board of directors determines is an exempted transaction and, unlike the determination of an exempted person, such determination is irrevocable.
. Each right entitles its holder, under the circumstances described below, to purchase from PHM one one-thousandth of a PHM Series A Junior Participating Preferred Share at a purchase price of $50 per right, subject to adjustment. PHM common shares issued while the Section 382 rights plan is in effect will be issued with rights attached.
The Rights
Initially, the rights will be associated with PHM common shares and evidenced by common share certificates, which will contain a notation incorporating the rights plan by reference, and will be transferable with and only with the underlying PHM common shares. Subject to certain exceptions, the rights become exercisable and trade separately from the PHM common shares only upon the "distribution date," which occurs upon the earlier of:
 
 
Until the distribution date, the surrender for transfer of any PHM common shares outstanding will also constitute the transfer of the rights associated with those shares.
As soon as practicable after the distribution date, separate certificates or book-entry statements will be mailed to holders of record of PHM common shares as of the close of business on the distribution date. From and after the distribution date, the separate rights certificates or book-entry statements alone will represent the rights. Except as otherwise provided in the rights plan, only PHM common shares issued prior to the distribution date will be issued with rights.
. The rights are not exercisable until the distribution date and, unless earlier redeemed or exchanged by PHM as described below, will expire upon the earliest of:
Expiration
 
 
 
 
 
. If a person or group becomes an acquiring person (a "flip-in event"), each holder of a right (other than any acquiring person and certain transferees of an acquiring person, whose rights automatically become null and void) will have the right to receive, upon exercise, PHM common shares having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the right. If an insufficient number of PHM common shares are available for issuance, then the PHM board of directors is required to substitute cash, property or other securities of PHM for the PHM common shares. The rights may not be exercised following a flip-in event while PHM has the ability to cause the rights to be redeemed, as described below.
Effects of Triggering Event
For example, at an exercise price of $50 per right, each right not owned by an acquiring person (or by certain transferees thereof) following a flip-in event would entitle its holder to purchase $100 worth of PHM common shares (or other consideration, as noted above) for $50. Assuming that the PHM common shares had a per share value of $10 at that time, the holder of each valid right would be entitled to purchase ten PHM common shares for $50.
. At any time after there is an acquiring person and prior to the acquisition by the acquiring person of 50% or more of the outstanding PHM common shares, PHM may exchange the rights (other than rights owned by the acquiring person and certain transferees thereof which will have become void), in whole or in part, at an exchange ratio of one PHM common share, or one one-thousandth of a PHM preferred share (or of a share of a class or series of PHM preferred shares having equivalent rights, preferences and privileges), per right (subject to adjustment).
Exchange
. The exercise price payable, and the number of preferred shares or other securities or property issuable, upon exercise of the rights are subject to adjustment from time to time to prevent dilution:
Adjustments
 
 
 
With certain exceptions, no adjustment in the exercise price will be required until cumulative adjustments amount to at least 1% of the exercise price. No fractional preferred shares will be issued, and, in lieu thereof, an adjustment in cash will be made based on the market price of the preferred shares on the last trading day prior to the date of exercise.
. In general, PHM may redeem the rights in whole, but not in part, at a price of $0.001 per right (subject to adjustment and payable in cash, PHM common shares or other consideration deemed appropriate by the PHM board of directors) at any time until ten days following the share acquisition date. Immediately upon the action of the PHM board of directors authorizing any redemption, the rights will terminate, and the only right of the holders of rights will be to receive the redemption price.
Redemption
. Until a right is exercised, its holder will have no rights as a shareholder of PHM, including, without limitation, the right to vote or to receive dividends. While the distribution of the rights will not result in the recognition of taxable income by PHM or its shareholders, shareholders may, depending upon the circumstances, recognize taxable income after a flip-in event.
Shareholder Rights; Tax Effects
. The terms of the rights may be amended by the PHM board of directors without the consent of the holders of the rights, including, without limitation, to extend the expiration date of the rights plan and to increase or decrease the purchase price. Once there is an acquiring person, however, no amendment can adversely affect the interests of the holders of the rights.
Amendment
The foregoing description of the rights does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the rights agreement and exhibits thereto, which have been filed as exhibits to PHM's Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof and are incorporated herein by reference.
The information set forth under "Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated into this Item 3.03 by reference.
 
The information set forth under "Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" of this Current Report on Form 8-K with respect to the Certificate of Designation and Series A Junior Participating Preferred Shares is incorporated into this Item 5.03 by reference.
 
(d) :
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Company Contacts
Investors: Calvin Boyd
(248) 433-4527
email:
calvin.boyd@pulte.com
Media: Mark Marymee
(248) 433-4648
email:
mark.marymee@pulte.com
 Pulte Homes (NYSE: PHM) announced today that its board of directors has adopted a shareholder rights plan to help preserve the value of certain deferred tax assets of Pulte Homes generated by net operating losses and other tax benefits under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Bloomfield Hills, Mich., March 5, 2009
Pulte Homes' ability to use its net operating losses and other tax benefits would be substantially limited by Section 382 if an "ownership change" occurred  generally, a greater than 50-percentage point change in ownership of securities by shareholders owning (or deemed to own under Section 382 of the Code) 5 percent or more of a corporation's securities over a defined period of time. The rights plan was adopted to reduce the likelihood of an unintended "ownership change" occurring as a result of ordinary buying and selling of Pulte's common shares.
In connection with the rights plan, Pulte Homes has declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right for each of its common shares outstanding as of the close of business on March 16, 2009. After the rights plan takes effect today, any shareholder or group that acquires beneficial ownership of 4.9 percent or more of Pulte's outstanding securities (an "acquiring person") without the approval of Pulte's board of directors would be subjected to significant dilution in its holdings. Certain related parties will not be considered acquiring persons and existing shareholders holding 4.9 percent or more of Pulte's common shares will not be considered acquiring persons unless they acquire additional shares. In addition, in its discretion, the board of directors may exempt certain persons whose acquisition of securities is determined by the board not to jeopardize Pulte's deferred tax assets and may also exempt certain transactions.
The rights plan was not adopted as an anti-takeover measure. The rights will expire on March 16, 2019 or earlier if (i) the board of directors determines the rights plan is no longer needed to preserve the deferred tax assets due to the implementation of legislative changes, (ii) the board of directors determines, at the beginning of a specified period, that no tax benefits may be carried forward, or
(iii) certain other events occur as described in the rights plan. Pulte Homes will file a copy of its rights plan with the Securities and Exchange Commission. This filing will contain additional information about the terms and conditions of the rights plan.
Certain statements in this release constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements involve known risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Such factors include, among other things: (1) adverse national and regional economic and business conditions, including further deterioration in the unemployment rate and the current downturn in the homebuilding industry; (2) interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; (3) continued volatility and potential further deterioration in the debt and equity markets, which have adversely impacted the banking and mortgage finance industries, resulting in tightening of credit; (4) competition; (5) the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by the Company in its homebuilding operations; (6) the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with the Company's business; (7) shortages and the cost of labor; (8) weather-related slowdowns; (9) slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; (10) governmental regulation and the interpretation of tax, labor and environmental laws; (11) changes in consumer confidence and preferences; (12) required accounting changes; (13) terrorist acts and other acts of war; (14) the potential loss of tax benefits if we have an "ownership change" under IRC Section 382; and (15) other factors of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. See Pulte's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2008 and other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to Pulte's business. Pulte undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in Pulte's expectations.
About Pulte Homes
Pulte Homes, Inc., (NYSE: PHM), based in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., is one of America's largest home building companies with operations in 49 markets and 25 states. During its 59-year history, the company has delivered more than 500,000 new homes. In 2008, Pulte Homes operations ranked highest in customer satisfaction in 11 U.S. markets, the most of any homebuilder, in the annual J.D. Power and Associates New-Home Builder Customer Satisfaction Study
sm
. Under its Del Webb brand, Pulte is the nation's largest builder of active adult communities for people age 55 and older. Its DiVosta Homes brand is renowned in Florida for its distinctive master-planned communities. Pulte Mortgage LLC is a nationwide lender offering Pulte customers a wide variety of loan products and superior service.
Websites
:
www.pulte.com; www.delwebb.com; www.divosta.com


