FILE:PHM/PHM-8K-20090924172846.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 24, 2009, Pulte Homes, Inc. ("Pulte") entered into a second amendment (the "Rights Amendment") to the Section 382 Rights Agreement between Pulte and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as rights agent, dated as of March 5, 2009, as amended as of April 7, 2009 (as amended, the "Rights Plan").
The Rights Amendment revised the definitions of "beneficial owner", "beneficial ownership" and "beneficially own" such that a person will be deemed a "beneficial owner" of, and will be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" and will be deemed to "beneficially own" any securities which such person directly owns, or would be deemed to constructively own, pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
The Rights Amendment also made a number of revisions to the expiration date of the rights. The final expiration date was changed from March 16, 2019 to June 1, 2013. In addition, the Rights Amendment deleted the provision that the rights would expire when the board of directors of Pulte determined that the Rights Plan was no longer in the best interests of Pulte and replaced it with the provision that the rights will expire on June 1, 2010, if the shareholders of Pulte do not approve the Rights Plan at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the outstanding common shares of Pulte entitled to vote, and voting together without regard to class, and that are present, or represented by proxy and voted on the proposal to approve the Rights Plan.
The foregoing summary of the Rights Amendment is qualified in its entirety by the terms and conditions of the Rights Amendment, which is filed as Exhibit 4.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The following exhibits are filed as part of this report:
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 4.1
This Second Amendment, dated as of September 24, 2009 (this ""), to the Section 382 Rights Agreement, dated as of March 5, 2009, as amended as of April 7, 2009 (collectively, the ""), is made between Pulte Homes, Inc., a Michigan corporation (the ""), and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., a federally chartered trust company (the ""). Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings given to such terms in the Section 382 Rights Agreement.
Amendment
Section 382 Rights Agreement
Company
Rights Agent
the Board of Directors of the Company has determined that it is advisable and in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to put the Section 382 Rights Agreement to a binding vote at the Company's 2010 annual meeting;
WHEREAS,
the Board of Directors of the Company has determined it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to revise Section 1(d) of the Section 382 Rights Agreement; and
WHEREAS,
pursuant to its authority under Section 27 of the Section 382 Rights Agreement, the Board of Directors of the Company has authorized and approved this Second Amendment to the Section 382 Rights Agreement as of the date hereof, and an appropriate officer of the Company has delivered a certificate to the Rights Agent in accordance with Section 27 of the Section 382 Rights Agreement.
WHEREAS,
in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements herein set forth in this Amendment, the parties hereby agree as follows:
NOW THEREFORE,
1. The Company hereby directs the Rights Agent, in its capacity as Rights Agent and in accordance with Section 27 of the Section 382 Rights Agreement, to execute this Amendment.
2. Section 1 of the Section 382 Rights Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following definition thereto:
(cc) "Shareholder Approval" shall mean the approval of this Agreement by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the outstanding Common Shares of the Company entitled to vote, and voting together without regard to class, and that are present, or represented by proxy, and are voted on the proposal to approve this Agreement, at a meeting of shareholders of the Company duly held in accordance with the Company's articles of incorporation (as amended) and applicable law.
3. Section 1(d) of the Section 382 Rights Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety as follows:
(d) A Person shall be deemed a "Beneficial Owner" of, shall be deemed to have "Beneficial Ownership" and shall be deemed to "Beneficially Own"
any securities which such person directly owns, or would be deemed to constructively own, pursuant to Section 382 and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
4. Section 7(a) of the Section 382 Rights Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
(a) Subject to Section 7(e), the registered holder of any Rights Certificate may exercise the Rights evidenced thereby (except as otherwise provided herein including, without limitation, the restrictions on exercisability set forth in Section 9(c), Section 11(a)(iii) and Section 23(a)) in whole or in part at any time after the Distribution Date upon surrender of the Rights Certificate, with the form of election to purchase and the certificate on the reverse side thereof duly executed, to the Rights Agent at the principal office or offices of the Rights Agent designated for such purpose, together with payment of the aggregate Purchase Price with respect to the total number of one one-thousandths of a Preferred Share (or Common Shares, other securities, cash or other assets, as the case may be) as to which such surrendered Rights are then exercisable, at or prior to the earliest of (i) the Close of Business on June 1, 2013 (the "Final Expiration Date"), (ii) the time at which the Rights are redeemed as provided in Section 23, (iii) the time at which such Rights are exchanged pursuant to Section 24, (iv) the Close of Business on the effective date of the repeal of Section 382 or any successor statute if the Board of Directors of the Company determines that this Agreement is no longer necessary or desirable for the preservation of Tax Benefits, (v) the Close of Business on the first day of a taxable year of the Company to which the Board of Directors of the Company determines that no Tax Benefits may be carried forward, and (vi) June 1, 2010 if Shareholder Approval has not been obtained by such date (the earliest of (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) and (vi) being herein referred to as the "Expiration Date").
5. This Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of Michigan and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of such State applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such State, , , that all provisions regarding the rights, duties and obligations of the Rights Agent shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such State.
provided
however
6. This Amendment shall be deemed effective as of September 24, 2009. Except as otherwise amended hereby, the Section 382 Rights Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall be otherwise unaffected hereby.
7. This Amendment may be executed in counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, and both such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
the parties hereto have caused this Second Amendment to Section 382 Rights Agreement to be duly executed and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested, all as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 Sept. 24, 2009  Pulte Homes, Inc. (NYSE: PHM) today announced it has entered into a second amendment (the "Rights Amendment") to the Section 382 Rights Agreement between Pulte and Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as rights agent, dated as of March 5, 2009 as amended as of April 7, 2009 (as amended, the "Rights Plan").
BLOOMFIELD HILLS, Mich.
The Rights Amendment made a number of revisions to the expiration date of the rights. If the Pulte shareholders do not approve the Rights Plan at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, it will expire on June 1, 2010. The final expiration date was changed from March 16, 2019 to June 1, 2013.
The Rights Amendment revised the definition of beneficial ownership to mean securities which such person directly owns, or would be deemed to constructively own, pursuant to Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and related regulations.
"Pulte's Board of Directors is submitting the Rights Plan for shareholder approval in response to shareholder concerns expressed at our 2009 annual meeting," said Richard J. Dugas, Jr., Chairman, President and CEO of Pulte Homes, Inc. "The Board remains on track to address the other recommendations put forth by the Board's nominating and governance committee regarding declassification of the Board in time for action at the 2010 annual meeting."
About Pulte Homes
Pulte Homes, Inc., based in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., is America's largest home building company with operations in 29 states and the District of Columbia. The Company has an unmatched capacity to meet the needs of all buyer segments through its brand portfolio that includes Pulte Homes, Centex and Del Webb, as well as its regional brands of DiVosta Homes (Florida) and Fox & Jacobs (Texas). Pulte Mortgage LLC is a nationwide lender offering Pulte customers a wide variety of loan products and superior service.
Web sites: www.pulteinc.com; www.pulte.com; www.centex.com; www.delwebb.com; www.divosta.com; www.foxandjacobs.com.


