FILE:PHM/PHM-8K-20100804072635.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On August 4, 2010, PulteGroup, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2010. A copy of this earnings press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in Item 2.02 by reference.
Item 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
99.1    Second Quarter earnings press release dated August 4, 2010.
The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the earnings press release incorporated in such Item 2.02, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PulteGroup, Inc. (NYSE: PHM) announced today financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2010. For the quarter, the Company reported net income of $76 million, or $0.20 per share, compared with a prior year net loss for the second quarter of $189 million, or $0.74 per share.
Bloomfield Hills, MI, August 4, 2010
PulteGroup's second quarter results include approximately $45 million of land and mortgage-related charges. The Company's second quarter results also include a net benefit from income taxes of $82 million. In the prior year, the Company recorded land and mortgage-related charges totaling $130 million. Prior year results also include a benefit of $16 million associated with the repurchase of debt during the quarter.
"We are pleased to report PulteGroup's second quarter results, which demonstrate ongoing progress in driving key business initiatives, along with expected benefits from last year's Centex merger," said Richard J. Dugas, Jr., Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of PulteGroup. "The Company's reported pre-tax loss for the quarter of $6 million is inclusive of $45 million in land and mortgage-related charges. In addition to lower land impairments, the quarter reflects the positive impact of expanded gross margins and improved overhead leverage."
Second Quarter Results
On August 18, 2009, PulteGroup completed its merger with Centex Corporation. The Company's 2010 second quarter and six month results are inclusive of Centex's operations for the period. Prior year results have not been adjusted for the transaction.
 
Benefiting from the inclusion of Centex's operations, revenue from home sales (settlements) in the second quarter increased 93% to $1.3 billion, compared with $654 million in the prior year. The increase in revenue reflects a doubling in closing volumes to 5,030 homes, partially offset by a 4% decrease in the Company's average selling price to $251,000.
For the quarter, the Company's homebuilding operations generated pre-tax income of $12 million, compared with a pre-tax loss of $187 million for the same period last year. Second quarter cost of sales related to home sales totaled $1.1 billion, inclusive of $26 million of land-related charges. For the prior year, cost of sales related to home sales, inclusive of $109 million in land-related charges, was $725 million. Excluding land-related charges, interest expense and merger-related costs, home sale gross margin for the second quarter 2010 would have been 17.2%. This represents an increase of 780 basis points over the prior year and a sequential increase of 90 basis points over the first quarter 2010.
Homebuilding selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense for the quarter was $147 million, compared with $114 million last year and down from $151 million in the first quarter of 2010. Homebuilding SG&A costs for the quarter dropped to 11.7% of home sales revenue, compared with 17.5% in the comparable period last year and 15.4% in the first quarter 2010.
Net new home orders for the second quarter were 4,218 homes, an increase of 25% from the prior year and essentially unchanged from the first quarter 2010. During the quarter, the Company's cancellation rate was 18.2%, which was flat with the first quarter 2010 and down from 21.7% in the prior year. The lower cancellation rate is partially due to a process change implemented by the Company at the start of 2010. PulteGroup's quarter-end backlog was up 44% to 5,644 homes valued at $1.6 billion, compared with prior year backlog of 3,916 homes with a value of $1.1 billion.
"Recent buyer demand has been stable, albeit at very low levels, after the pull back experienced following expiration of the federal tax credit at the end of April," said Mr. Dugas. "While reasonable to expect a modest seasonal pick up in the second half of 2010, long-term we believe that any significant housing recovery will require a stronger economy, higher employment and greater overall consumer confidence."
The Company's financial services operations reported a second quarter pre-tax loss of $9 million, essentially unchanged from the prior year. Higher loan origination volumes and revenue, up 72% and 75%, respectively, were offset by $17 million in charges related to loan repurchase liabilities taken in the quarter. In the prior year, the Company recorded an $11 million charge related to loan repurchase liabilities. Mortgage capture rate for the quarter was 76%, compared with 91% for the same quarter last year.
The Company ended the quarter with a cash balance of $2.7 billion. Adjusting for its cash position, PulteGroup's net-debt-to-total-capitalization ratio was 32%, down from 38% at the comparable period last year and 43% at year end 2009.
Six Month Results
For the six months ended June 30, 2010, PulteGroup reported net income of $64 million, or $0.17 per share, compared with a prior year net loss of $704 million, or $2.77 per share. Consolidated revenue for the period was $2.3 billion, an increase of 84% from $1.3 billion for the first six months of last year.
Revenue from home sales for the period was $2.2 billion, compared with prior year revenue of $1.2 billion. Higher revenue for the period resulted from a 90% increase in the number of homes closed to 8,825, partially offset by a 3% decrease in average selling price to $254,000.
 
Continuing to demonstrate the benefits of last year's merger with Centex, PulteGroup's homebuilding operations significantly improved its performance in reporting breakeven results for the first six months ended June 30, 2010, compared with a $695 million pre-tax loss for the comparable period last year. Improved financial results for the period reflect the benefits of higher closing volumes and revenue combined with lower land-related charges. For the first six months of 2010, the Company recorded $35 million of land-related charges, compared with $530 million for the comparable prior year period. Homebuilding SG&A expense for the period increased 28% to $298 million, and reflects the incorporation of Centex's operations. SG&A expense as a percentage of home sales revenue decreased by 590 basis points to 13.3%.
Inclusive of charges related to loan repurchase liabilities taken in the second quarter, the Company's financial services operations reported a pre-tax loss of $3 million for the first half of 2010, compared with a pre-tax loss of $10 million in the comparable prior year. Revenue for the period increased 70% to $67 million, as higher home closing volumes drove a corresponding 59% increase in loan originations.
A conference call discussing PulteGroup's second quarter 2010 results is scheduled for Wednesday, August 4, 2010, at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time. Interested investors can access the live webcast via PulteGroup's corporate website at .
www.pultegroupinc.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release includes "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities, as well as those of the markets we serve or intend to serve, to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events. Generally, the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "may," "can," "could," "might," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to expected operating and performing results, planned transactions, planned objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future.
Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among other things: the possibility that the expected efficiencies and cost savings from the merger with Centex will not be realized, or will not be realized within the expected time period; the risk that the PulteGroup and Centex businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the merger making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; continued volatility in, and potential further deterioration of, the debt and equity markets; competition within the industries in which PulteGroup operates; the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by PulteGroup in its homebuilding operations; the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with PulteGroup's businesses; shortages and the cost of labor; weather related slowdowns; slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; governmental regulation directed at or affecting the housing market, the homebuilding industry or construction activities; the interpretation of tax, labor and environmental laws; changes in consumer confidence and preferences; legal or regulatory proceedings or claims; required accounting changes; terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. See PulteGroup's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, and other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to our businesses.
 
About PulteGroup
PulteGroup, Inc. (NYSE: PHM) based in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., is America's premier home building company with operations in 67 markets, 29 states and the District of Columbia. Celebrating its 60
th
anniversary in 2010, the Company has an unmatched capacity to meet the needs of all buyer segments through its brand portfolio that includes Pulte Homes, Centex Homes and Del Webb. In 2009, PulteGroup brands received more top rankings than any other homebuilder in the annual J.D. Power and Associates 2009 New-Home Builder Customer Satisfaction Study
sm
.
For more information about PulteGroup, Inc. and PulteGroup brands, see ; ; ;
www.pultegroup.com
www.pulte.com
www.centex.com
www.delwebb.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release contains information about home sale gross margin excluding impairments and related charges, interest expense, and merger costs, which is considered a non-GAAP measure under the SEC's rules and should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, home sale gross margin (which we define as home sale revenues less home cost of revenues) as a measure of our operating performance. Management and our local divisions use this measure in evaluating the operating performance of each community and in making strategic decisions regarding sales pricing, construction and development pace, product mix, and other daily operating decisions. We believe it is a relevant and useful measure to investors for evaluating our performance through gross profit generated on homes delivered during a given period and for comparing our operating performance to other companies in the homebuilding industry. Although other companies in the homebuilding industry report similar information, the methods used may differ. We urge investors to understand the methods used by other companies in the homebuilding industry to calculate gross margins and any adjustments thereto before comparing our home sale gross margin excluding impairments and related charges, interest expense, and merger costs to that of such other companies.
The following table sets forth a reconciliation of home sale gross margin excluding impairments and related charges, interest expense, and merger costs, a non-GAAP financial measure, to home sale gross margin, a GAAP measure, which management believes to be the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to home sale gross margin excluding impairments and related charges, interest expense, and merger costs ($000's omitted):
 
 
 


