FILE:PHM/PHM-8K-20100730074346.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 27, 2010, effective July 7, 2010, Pulte Mortgage LLC ("Pulte Mortgage" or the "Seller"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of PulteGroup, Inc., extended the term of its Master Repurchase Agreement dated July 31, 2009 (the "Repurchase Agreement") with Bank of America, N.A. (the "Buyer") to September 30, 2010 (the "Extension") at which time it will expire. Pulte Mortgage may terminate the agreement prior to September 30, 2010, by providing the Buyer ten (10) days prior written notice of such termination.
The Extension does not alter the rights and remedies of the Buyer under the Repurchase Agreement and all terms and conditions of the Repurchase Agreement remain intact during the additional time period covered by the Extension.
The Extension is attached as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
July 7, 2010
Pulte Mortgage LLC
7475 S. Joliet Street
Englewood, CO 80112
Attn: David M. Bruining, CFO and SVP
Email: dave.bruining@pulte.com
 
Dear Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is hereby made to that Master Repurchase Agreement by and between Bank of America, N.A. ("Buyer") and Pulte Mortgage LLC (the "Seller") dated July 31, 2009 (the "Agreement"). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Agreement.
Buyer and Seller hereby extend the Term of the Agreement to September 30, 2010 (the "Extension"), at which time the Agreement will expire. Seller may terminate the Agreement prior to September 30, 2010, by providing Buyer ten (10) days prior written notice of such termination.
Nothing herein shall affect the rights and remedies of Buyer under the Agreement and all terms and conditions of the Agreement shall be deemed to have been in full force and effect as of the date of the Agreement and prior to the Extension and shall remain in full force and effect during the Extension. This letter agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to principles of conflicts of laws.
Please acknowledge your agreement to the terms and conditions of this letter by signing in the appropriate space below and returning a copy of the same to the undersigned. Facsimile signatures shall be deemed valid and binding to the same extent as the original.
Sincerely,
 


