FILE:PHM/PHM-8K-20110328110540.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.02 Termination of Material Definitive Agreement.
On March 25, 2011, PulteGroup, Inc. (the "Company"), voluntarily terminated its $250.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility with lenders for which JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., acted as Administrative Agent, (the "Credit Facility"). The termination will be effective March 30, 2011. The Credit Facility was scheduled to expire in June 2012, and the Company did not pay any penalties as a result of the early termination.
The Credit Facility had no outstanding borrowings and was being used solely to issue letters of credit. The Company determined it would be more cost effective to enter into separate cash-collateralized letter of credit agreements and has or will enter into such agreements as well as use its existing $200.0 million unsecured letter of credit facility with Deutsche Bank AG, New York Branch to replace the approximately $110.0 million of letters of credit currently outstanding under the Credit Facility. After completion of these actions on or about March 30, 2011, the Company expects the combination of all of its letter of credit agreements to provide capacity to issue letters of credit totaling approximately $390.0 million.
The termination of the Credit Facility will also:
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 PulteGroup, Inc. (NYSE: PHM) announced today its decision to terminate the Company's $250 million revolving credit facility effective March 30, 2011. The Company will realize a charge of approximately $1.3 million associated with this action which will be recorded in its first quarter financial results.
Bloomfield Hills, Mich., March 25, 2011
"Over the past 36 months, PulteGroup has paid down more than $3.1 billion of senior debt and other bond obligations," said Roger A. Cregg, Executive Vice President and CFO. "With $1.5 billion in cash on our balance sheet at year end, we have ample liquidity to fund current operations and near-term growth opportunities. We would expect to replace the facility in the next 12 to 18 months, but see this action as a way to further reduce operating costs."
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release includes "forward-looking statements." These statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities, as well as those of the markets we serve or intend to serve, to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events. Generally, the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "may," "can," "could," "might," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to expected operating and performing results, planned transactions, planned objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future.
Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among other things: interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; continued volatility in, and potential further deterioration of, the debt and equity markets; competition within the industries in which PulteGroup operates; the availability
 
and cost of land and other raw materials used by PulteGroup in its homebuilding operations; the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with PulteGroup's businesses; shortages and the cost of labor; weather related slowdowns; slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; governmental regulation directed at or affecting the housing market, the homebuilding industry or construction activities; uncertainty in the mortgage lending industry, including revisions to underwriting standards and repurchase requirements associated with the sale of mortgage loans; the interpretation of or changes to tax, labor and environmental laws; economic changes nationally or in PulteGroup's local markets, including inflation, deflation, changes in consumer confidence and preferences and the state of the market for homes in general; legal or regulatory proceedings or claims; required accounting changes; terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. See PulteGroup's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, and other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to our businesses.
About PulteGroup
PulteGroup, Inc. (NYSE: PHM) based in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., is America's premier home building company with operations in 67 markets, 29 states and the District of Columbia. The Company has an unmatched capacity to meet the needs of all buyer segments through its brand portfolio that includes Pulte Homes, Centex and Del Webb. As the most awarded homebuilder in customer satisfaction, the brands of PulteGroup have consistently ranked among the nation's top homebuilders as surveyed by third-party, independent national customer satisfaction studies.
For more information about PulteGroup, Inc. and PulteGroup brands, see ; ; ;
www.pultegroupinc.com
www.pulte.com
www.centex.com
www.delwebb.com
 


