FILE:PHM/PHM-8K-20110509164840.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS
 
Mr. O'Shaughnessy, age 45, will join the Company from Penske Automotive Group, Inc. ("Penske"), where he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 3, 2007. From July 2005 until January 2007, he served as Senior Vice President  Finance of Penske. From August 1999 until July 2005, he served as Penske's Vice President and Controller. Mr. O'Shaughnessy joined Penske in 1997. Prior to joining Penske, Mr. O'Shaughnessy was a Senior Manager for Ernst & Young LLP, an accounting and financial advisory services firm, which he joined in 1987.
Mr. O'Shaughnessy will receive an annual base salary of $700,000. He will also participate in the Annual Program ("AIP") and the Long Term Program ("LTI") under the Company's 2008 Senior Management Incentive Plan. Under the AIP, Mr. O'Shaughnessy will have a 2011 target award of $700,000, the payout for which can be higher or lower depending on the Company's performance in relation to performance goals set by the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors. To compensate Mr. O'Shaughnessy for the annual bonus that he will forfeit in connection with his separation of employment from Penske, for the year 2011, Mr. O'Shaughnessy will receive an AIP payout equal to the higher of $360,000 or the award payable based on actual Company performance. Under the LTI, Mr. O'Shaughnessy will have a target award for the 2011-2013 performance cycle of $700,000, the payout for which can be higher or lower depending on the Company's financial performance in relation to performance goals set by the Compensation and Management Development Committee. Mr. O'Shaughnessy may also receive equity grants from time to time at the discretion of the Compensation and Management Development Committee. The estimated value of Mr. O'Shaughnessy's February 2012 equity award grant is expected to be approximately $850,000, subject to the price of the Company's common shares at the time of grant.
In lieu of equity compensation that Mr. O'Shaughnessy will forfeit at his prior place of employment, he will receive a cash payment of $180,000 and a restricted share award with a grant value of approximately $570,000. These restricted shares will fully vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to continued employment. In the event that Mr. O'Shaughnessy's employment with the Company is involuntarily terminated without cause prior to the vesting date of these restricted shares, he will receive, in lieu of the restricted shares and subject to the execution of a release agreement on terms satisfactory to the Company, a cash payment equal to the number of restricted shares multiplied by the closing share price on the date of termination.
Mr. O'Shaughnessy will also receive a sign-on cash payment of $50,000 and a stock option grant for 100,000 shares of common stock. This stock option will be granted, and the exercise price determined, by the Compensation and Management Development Committee at its first meeting after Mr. O'Shaughnessy's start date. Fifty percent of these options will vest two years from the grant date, 25% will vest three years from the grant date and the remaining 25% will vest four years from the grant date.
Mr. O'Shaughnessy will participate in employee benefit plans generally available to all employees on the same terms as similarly-situated employees, and as a senior executive he is eligible for the Company's tax and financial planning assistance program, as well as the executive health examination program.
A copy of Mr. O'Shaughnessy's employment offer letter is filed as an exhibit to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10(a)
May 2, 2011
Robert T. O'Shaughnessy
(Address on file)
Dear Bob:
I am pleased to offer you the position of Executive Vice President & Chief Financial Officer with the PulteGroup, Inc. reporting to me, Richard Dugas - Chairman, President & CEO.
Salary:
Your starting salary will be $700,000 per year.
Annual Incentive:
Under the Company's Annual Incentive Program ("AIP"), your 2011 target will be set at $700,000 (100% of your 2011 base salary). The award opportunity is based on the achievement of Company financial goals as approved by the Compensation & Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors ("Committee"). For 2011, we will provide you with a payout reflecting the higher of $360,000 or the annual award based on actual Company performance. Any bonus payable to you under the AIP shall be paid to you no later than March 15th of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the bonus is earned.
Long-Term Incentive:
Under the Company's Long-Term Incentive Program ("LTIP"), your target will be set at $700,000 (100% of your 2011 base salary) for the 2011-2013 performance period. The LTIP award is based on the achievement of pre-established three-year Company financial goals as approved by the Committee and will be paid at the end of the three year performance period in accordance with and subject to the terms of the LTIP.
Annual Equity Grant:
You will also be eligible for a 2011 annual equity grant consisting of Company stock options and/or restricted shares, which will be awarded in February 2012 as approved by the Committee. The estimated value of the annual equity award is expected to be approximately $850,000, which may vary based on the stock price at the time of grant. The vesting provisions, number of shares and mix of equity you will receive shall be determined by the Committee with direction from the CEO and the Committee's outside compensation consultant.
Payments in lieu of Forfeited Compensation:
You shall also receive a one-time cash payment and restricted share award to compensate you for the value of your unvested restricted stock units that you will forfeit as a result of your separation from your previous employer.
 
 
 
Sign-On Compensation:
We will also provide a Sign-On Stock Option Grant of 100,000 stock options, which will be granted and approved during the first Committee meeting after your start date. These stock options will vest over a four year period subject to your continued employment with the Company (50% vest two years from the grant date, 25% vest three years from the grant date and the remaining 25% vest four years from grant date). You will be provided with a grant acceptance agreement shortly after the award is made. As a condition of your receipt of the Sign-On Stock Option Grant, you will be asked to sign an agreement regarding non-competition and confidentiality.
In addition, the Company will provide you with a sign on bonus of $50,000 to cover transition related expenses and to offset the loss of perquisites from your former employer. This sign-on bonus will be included in the first regular paycheck after your start date.
Benefits & Perquisites:
All company benefit programs, including medical, dental, life insurance, disability insurance and 4 weeks of vacation are available to you on the first day of the month following 60 days of employment.
As a Senior Executive, you will be eligible for the Tax & Financial Planning Assistance program, which reimburses you for any tax and financial counseling up to $7,500 annually. You will also be eligible for the Executive Health Examination Program, which reimburses you up to $4,000 annually for routine medical examinations, blood tests, X-rays and other related diagnostic programs. The reimbursements shall be paid to you in accordance with the Company's policies and procedures covering expense reimbursements, but in no event later than the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which you incurred the reimbursable expense. Any amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement during a calendar year shall not affect the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement during any other calendar year. The right to any reimbursement pursuant to this offer shall not be subject to liquidation or exchange for any other benefit.
Severance:
Severance benefits for Senior Executives are determined at the discretion of the Company's Board of Directors, but have generally been a minimum of 12 months of salary and COBRA continuation, a pro-rated bonus based on year-end results and consideration for the value of unvested restricted stock awards.
We anticipate that your start date will be May 31st, 2011. On your first day, please plan to meet with Jamie Bieth at 9:00 a.m. to complete your new hire paperwork. Please bring with you identification to demonstrate your eligibility to work in the United States as noted on the attached Form I-9, List of Acceptable Documents.
This offer in its entirety is contingent upon the successful completion of a reference/ background check.
Bob, welcome to the Pulte team!
Sincerely,
/s/ Richard Dugas
Richard Dugas
Chairman, President & CEO
 
Payroll Department
 
 
By my signature, I agree to the terms of this letter and understand that I am employed at-will as defined by the Employee Handbook.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact: Travis Parman
(248) 433-4533
Email:
travis.parman@pultegroup.com
BLOOMFIELD HILLS, Mich.May 9, 2011 PulteGroup, Inc. (NYSE:PHM) has named Robert "Bob" O'Shaughnessy Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. O'Shaughnessy will report directly to Richard J. Dugas, Jr., Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and will be responsible for the corporate accounting, treasury, tax, investor relations, audit, information technology and asset management functions including the mortgage and title company.
O'Shaughnessy joins PulteGroup from Penske Automotive Group where he had served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since 2007, leading a global team of about 1,000 professionals. He had held a number of financial roles with increasing responsibility at the firm since 1997, including Senior Vice President and Controller.
"Bob is a proven leader who has demonstrated operational expertise," said Richard J. Dugas, Jr., PulteGroup Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "He led a transformational team that drove significant growth at Penske Automotive Group, helping the company to weather the recent economic downturn and emerge an even stronger player in a highly competitive industry. With nearly 25 years of finance experience and a solid grounding in public accounting, Bob brings a broad range of expertise to PulteGroup from which our entire operation will benefit."
O'Shaughnessy will start on May 31, assuming the CFO position from Roger Cregg who earlier this year announced his plans to retire. Mr. Cregg will retire from PulteGroup effective May 27.
O'Shaughnessy earned a B.S. in accounting from Lehigh University. He began his career in the New York office of Ernst & Young.
About PulteGroup
PulteGroup, Inc. (NYSE: PHM) based in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., is America's premier home building company with operations in 60 markets throughout 28 states. The Company has an unmatched capacity to meet the needs of multiple buyer segments through its brand portfolio
 
that includes Pulte Homes, Centex and Del Webb. As the most awarded homebuilder in customer satisfaction, the brands of PulteGroup have consistently ranked among the nation's top homebuilders as surveyed by third-party, independent national customer satisfaction studies.
For more information about PulteGroup, Inc. and PulteGroup brands, see ; ; ;
media.pultegroup.com
www.pulte.com
www.centex.com
www.delwebb.com
 


