FILE:PHM/PHM-8K-20110706161234.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
Mr. Blair will serve on the Company's Compensation and Management Development Committee and its Finance Committee, and his term as director will continue until the 2012 annual meeting of shareholders.
Mr. Blair will receive the standard independent director compensation arrangement, including an annual cash retainer of $95,000 and an annual equity grant valued at $140,000. The press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:            Leanne Wandoff
(248) 433-4542
Email:
leanne.wandoff@pultegroup.com
Jim Zeumer
(248) 433-4502
Email:
jim.zeumer@pultegroup.com
 
BLOOMFIELD HILLS, Mich.  July 6, 2011  PulteGroup (NYSE: PHM) today announced the election of Bryce Blair to its Board of Directors. As a member of the Board, Blair will join the compensation and management development, and finance committees.
Blair, 52, has more than 30 years experience in real estate development and investment. He has been with AvalonBay Communities, Inc. since 1993, holding a number of senior leadership positions including president, chief operating officer as well as his most recent position of chairman and CEO. AvalonBay announced recently that Blair will retire from his role as CEO at the end of 2011. AvalonBay is a publicly traded multifamily real estate investment trust focused on the development, investment and management of apartment communities through select U.S. markets. Prior to AvalonBay, Blair was a partner with Trammel Crow Residential.
Blair also serves as the chairman of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts, where he is a member of the executive committee and board of governors, and as trustee and past chair of the multi-family council for the Urban Land Institute.
"Bryce is a highly regarded executive in the real estate industry, whose knowledge of the real estate market will be a valuable resource to our company," said PulteGroup Chairman, President and CEO Richard J. Dugas, Jr. "Additionally, his experience of operating successfully in different geographies and market conditions are important as we work to deliver consistent profitability and improved shareholder returns."
Blair received his MBA from Harvard Business School in 1985 and graduated magna cum laude with an undergraduate degree in civil engineering from the University of New Hampshire.
About PulteGroup
PulteGroup, Inc. (NYSE: PHM) based in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., is America's premier home building company with operations in 60 markets. The Company has an unmatched capacity to meet the needs of multiple buyer segments through its brand portfolio that includes Pulte Homes, Centex and Del Webb. As the most awarded homebuilder in customer satisfaction, the brands of PulteGroup have consistently ranked among the nation's top homebuilders as surveyed by third-party, independent national customer satisfaction studies.
For more information about PulteGroup, Inc. and PulteGroup brands, see ; ; ;
media.pultegroup.com
www.pulte.com
www.centex.com
www.delwebb.com


