FILE:PHM/PHM-8K-20110728074050.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
On July 28, 2011, PulteGroup, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2011. A copy of this earnings press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in Item 2.02 by reference.
Item 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the earnings press release incorporated in such Item 2.02, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PulteGroup, Inc. (NYSE: PHM) announced today financial results for its second quarter and six months ended June 30, 2011. For the quarter, the Company reported a net loss of $55 million, or $0.15 per share, compared with net income of $76 million, or $0.20 per share, in the prior year.
Bloomfield Hills, MI, July 28, 2011
PulteGroup's second quarter results included $41 million, or $0.11 per share, of land, mortgage, organizational restructuring and debt repurchase charges. Prior year results included $48 million, or $0.13 per share, of land, mortgage and organizational restructuring charges, offset by a net benefit from income taxes of $82 million, or $0.22 per share.
"The 2011 U.S. housing market continues to operate within the range of expectations we projected at the beginning of the year," said Richard J. Dugas, Jr., Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of PulteGroup. "It is a positive sign that buyer demand appears to have stabilized following expiration of the homebuyer tax credit last spring, but residential construction volumes are at historically low levels and market conditions remain highly competitive. In this operating environment, we are focused on reducing our construction and overhead costs and enhancing our product offerings."
Dugas continued, "I was pleased with the sequential improvement in our operating performance during the quarter, including a 30 basis point increase in adjusted gross margins and a $4 million reduction in homebuilding SG&A expenses. We also took steps during the quarter to further consolidate our organizational cost structure, which we estimate will result in overhead savings of approximately $50 million annually."
 
Second Quarter Results
Revenue from home sales in the second quarter decreased 29% from the prior year to $900 million. Lower revenue for the period was driven by a 28% decrease in closings, combined with a 1% decrease in average selling price to $248,000. Prior year results benefitted from increased demand stimulated by a first-time homebuyer tax credit which expired April 30, 2010.
For the quarter, the Company's homebuilding operations generated a pre-tax loss of $28 million, compared with pre-tax income of $12 million for the same period last year. Second quarter cost of sales related to home sales totaled $790 million, inclusive of $3 million of land-related charges and $41 million of capitalized interest expense. For the prior year, cost of sales related to home sales was $1.1 billion inclusive of $26 million of land-related charges and $33 million of capitalized interest expense. Excluding land-related charges, interest expense and merger-related costs, home sale gross margin for the second quarter 2011 was 17.2%, unchanged from the prior year and up 30 basis points compared with the first quarter of 2011.
Homebuilding SG&A expense for the quarter, inclusive of $5 million in restructuring costs, of $132 million decreased by $15 million from the comparable prior year period and by $4 million from the first quarter 2011.
Net new home orders for the second quarter were 4,222, which was consistent with the prior year and down 3% compared with the first quarter of 2011. PulteGroup's quarter-end backlog was up 2% to 5,777 homes with a value of $1.6 billion, compared with a prior year backlog of 5,644 homes with a value of $1.6 billion.
The Company's financial services operations reported a second quarter pre-tax loss of $17 million, compared with a prior year pre-tax loss of $9 million. Lower loan originations for the quarter, down 32% to 2,217 loans, were due to lower closing volumes in the Company's homebuilding operations. Mortgage capture rate for the quarter was 77% compared with 76% for the same quarter last year.
Current and prior year results for the Company's financial services operations included charges of $19 million and $17 million, respectively, related to potential loan repurchase obligations. The Company indicated that it has not experienced a material change in repurchase trends, but recorded the current year adjustment primarily to reflect current expectations that repurchase activity will now extend through 2012 rather than being substantially complete by the end of 2011.
During the second quarter, the Company used available cash to repurchase $53 million of senior debt in open market transactions, resulting in a charge of approximately $3 million. "The investment of our available cash to repurchase these notes, with maturities in 2012 and 2013, represents a cash accretive use of our capital," said Robert O'Shaughnessy, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. "We ended the quarter with $1.2 billion of cash, and we will continue to evaluate opportunities to allocate our capital in a manner that is consistent with our goal of improving shareholder returns."
Six Month Results
For the six months ended June 30, 2011, PulteGroup reported a net loss of $95 million, or $0.25 per share, compared with net income of $64 million, or $0.17 per share, in the prior year period. PulteGroup's six month results included $45 million, or $0.12 per share, of land, mortgage, organizational restructuring and debt repurchase charges. Prior year results included $60 million, or $0.16 per share, of land, mortgage and organizational restructuring charges, offset by a net benefit from income taxes of $84 million, or $0.22 per share.
Consolidated revenue for the period was $1.7 billion, compared with $2.3 billion for the first six months of 2010.
 
Revenue from home sales was $1.7 billion for the period, compared with prior year revenue of $2.2 billion. The year-over-year decrease in revenue resulted from a 23% decrease in the number of homes closed to 6,774, combined with a 2% decrease in average selling price to $248,000. Prior year results benefitted from increased demand stimulated by a first-time homebuyer tax credit which expired April 30, 2010.
A conference call discussing PulteGroup's second quarter 2011 results is scheduled for Thursday, July 28, 2011, at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time. Interested investors can access the live webcast via PulteGroup's corporate website at .
www.pultegroupinc.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release includes "forward-looking statements." These statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities, as well as those of the markets we serve or intend to serve, to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events. Generally, the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "may," "can," "could," "might," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to expected operating and performing results, planned transactions, planned objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future.
Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among other things: interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; continued volatility in the debt and equity markets; competition within the industries in which PulteGroup operates; the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by PulteGroup in its homebuilding operations; the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with PulteGroup's businesses; shortages and the cost of labor; weather related slowdowns; slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; governmental regulation directed at or affecting the housing market, the homebuilding industry or construction activities; uncertainty in the mortgage lending industry, including revisions to underwriting standards and repurchase requirements associated with the sale of mortgage loans; the interpretation of or changes to tax, labor and environmental laws; economic changes nationally or in PulteGroup's local markets, including inflation, deflation, changes in consumer confidence and preferences and the state of the market for homes in general; legal or regulatory proceedings or claims; required accounting changes; terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. See PulteGroup's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, and other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to our businesses.
About PulteGroup
PulteGroup, Inc. (NYSE: PHM) based in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., is America's premier home building company with operations in 60 markets located throughout 29 states. The Company has an unmatched capacity to meet the needs of all buyer segments through its brand portfolio that includes Pulte Homes, Centex and Del Webb. As the most awarded homebuilder in customer satisfaction, the brands of PulteGroup have consistently ranked among the nation's top homebuilders as surveyed by third-party, independent national customer satisfaction studies.
For more information about PulteGroup, Inc. and PulteGroup brands, see ; ; ;
www.pultegroupinc.com
www.pulte.com
www.centex.com
www.delwebb.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This press release contains information about home sale gross margin excluding impairments, interest expense, and merger-related costs, which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under the SEC's rules and should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, home sale gross margin (which we define as home sale revenues less home cost of revenues) as a measure of our operating performance. Management and our local divisions use this measure in evaluating the operating performance of each community and in making strategic decisions regarding sales pricing, construction and development pace, product mix, and other daily operating decisions. We believe it is a relevant and useful measure to investors for evaluating our performance through gross profit generated on homes delivered during a given period and for comparing our operating performance to other companies in the homebuilding industry. Although other companies in the homebuilding industry report similar information, the methods used may differ. We urge investors to understand the methods used by other companies in the homebuilding industry to calculate gross margins and any adjustments thereto before comparing our measures to that of such other companies.
The following table sets forth a reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to home sale gross margin, a GAAP financial measure, which management believes to be the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to this non-GAAP financial measure ($000's omitted):
 
 
 


