FILE:PHM/PHM-8K-20110204080622.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 4, 2011, PulteGroup, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for its fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2010. A copy of this earnings press release is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in Item 2.02 by reference.
 
 
The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the earnings press release incorporated in such Item 2.02, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PulteGroup, Inc. (NYSE: PHM) announced today financial results for its fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2010. For the quarter, PulteGroup reported a net loss of $165 million, or $0.44 per share. Reported loss includes $196 million in land-related charges and costs associated with organizational restructuring, debt pay down and other financing amendments completed in the period. These charges were partially offset by $35 million from income tax benefits and an insurance reserve reversal realized in the quarter.
Bloomfield Hills, Mich., February 4, 2011
For the prior year quarter, the Company reported a net loss of $117 million, or $0.31 per share, inclusive of approximately $925 million in significant charges related to goodwill and land impairments, merger-related charges and mortgage repurchase reserves. These charges were partially offset by $800 million in income tax benefits realized in the quarter resulting from tax legislation that extended the carryback period of net operating losses from two years to five years.
 
Consolidated revenue for the quarter was $1.2 billion, compared with prior year revenue of $1.7 billion.
"After four years of steep declines, the U.S. housing market continues to show signs of stabilizing, albeit at historically low levels," said Richard J. Dugas, Jr., Chairman, President and CEO of PulteGroup. "Businesses are once again adding jobs, which directly stimulates buying and, in turn, consumer confidence, both of which are critical to ultimately raising demand for new homes. In fact, we may already be realizing some positive effects as January buyer traffic and sales trends were encouraging, although we'll have to see if this continues through the selling season and the year."
"Within this environment, our underlying homebuilding business is operating around the breakeven mark after adjusting for charges realized in the quarter and for the year. We continue to implement initiatives focused on expanding margins, reducing costs and strengthening the Company's overall market position. With conditions in the U.S. housing market expected to show improvements but remain challenging in 2011, these initiatives are critical next steps in advancing PulteGroup's return to profitability."
Fourth Quarter Results
Revenue from home sales (settlements) in the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2010, totaled $1.2 billion, compared with $1.6 billion in the prior year's fourth quarter. Lower revenue for the quarter was driven by a 29% decrease in closings to 4,405 homes, partially offset by a 2% increase in average selling price to $262,000.
Fourth quarter cost of sales related to home sales totaled $1.1 billion, inclusive of $82 million of land impairment charges. For the prior year quarter, cost of sales was $1.6 billion, inclusive of $151 million of land impairment charges, plus $21 million in costs associated with the Company's merger with Centex Homes completed in August 2009. Excluding impairments, interest expense and merger-related costs, home sale gross margin would have been 16.6%, an increase of 240 basis points over the prior-year fourth quarter and down 10 basis points from the third quarter 2010.
Reported homebuilding selling, general & administrative (SG&A) expense for the period was $141 million, inclusive of $11 million of severance costs associated with the Company's previously announced actions to better align its operations with current market demand. SG&A expense for the quarter also reflects a benefit of $10 million from an insurance reserve reversal following completion of the Company's annual review which began in the third quarter. SG&A expense in the prior year was $188 million, inclusive of $7 million of merger-related severance costs.
"As previously announced, in the second half of 2010 we reorganized operations as part of ongoing efforts to reduce 2011 SG&A costs by $100 million when compared with 2010" said Mr. Dugas. "This restructuring resulted in a fourth quarter charge, but by implementing this action in 2010 we will begin realizing the benefits from the outset of 2011."
In the fourth quarter, the Company amended its credit agreement and used available cash to redeem outstanding senior notes and community development district (CDD) bonds totaling $1.0 billion in principal value. The Company incurred a pretax charge of $42 million from the associated transactions, which was recorded in Other Non-Operating Expenses in the quarter.
 
Fourth quarter 2010 net new orders were 3,044 homes, a decrease of 19% from prior year orders of 3,748 homes. The Company ended the quarter with a contract backlog of 3,984 homes, with a constructed value of $1.1 billion. Backlog for the fourth quarter 2009 was 5,931 homes, valued at $1.6 billion.
PulteGroup's financial services operations reported pretax income of $5 million for the quarter, compared with a pretax loss of $36 million, inclusive of mortgage repurchase reserve charges recorded in the prior-year quarter. The mortgage capture rate for the quarter was 81%, unchanged from the prior year.
Full-Year Results
For the 12 months ended December 31, 2010, PulteGroup reported a net loss of $1.1 billion, or $2.90 per share, compared with a prior year net loss of $1.2 billion, or $3.94 per share. As a result of shares issued for the Centex merger, 2010 earnings per share are based on 379 million shares outstanding, whereas 2009 earnings per share were calculated on 300 million shares outstanding.
Revenue from home sales (settlements) for the period was $4.4 billion, compared with revenue of $3.9 billion in the prior year. The increase in revenue for the period reflects full-year closings of 17,095, an increase of 14% from the prior year, combined with a less than 1% increase in average selling price to $259,000. The higher volume reported by the Company was driven by the inclusion of Centex's operations for the full year 2010, compared with only four-and-a-half months in 2009.
The Company's reported homebuilding pretax loss for 2010 improved by $685 million, or 37%, to a loss of $1.2 billion, reflecting better operating results and reduced land-related charges. Homebuilding SG&A expense for the period, inclusive of $280 million in construction and other insurance reserve charges taken during the year, totaled $856 million. For 2010, the Company recorded $873 million of land-related charges and goodwill impairments. For the prior year period, land-related charges and goodwill impairments totaled $1.5 billion.
For 2010, PulteGroup's financial services operations generated pretax income of $6 million, compared with a prior year pretax loss of $55 million. The year-over-year improvement was driven in large part by decreased mortgage repurchase reserve charges. The Company originated 10,770 mortgage loans in 2010, essentially unchanged from the prior year. Mortgage capture rate for 2010 was 78%, compared with a prior year rate of 85%.
A conference call discussing PulteGroup's fourth quarter results will be held Friday, February 4, 2011, at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time, and webcast live via . Interested investors can access the call via the Company's home page at , and are encouraged to download the available slides that provide additional details on the Company's fourth quarter results.
www.pultegroupinc.com
www.pultegroupinc.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release includes "forward-looking statements." These statements are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our actual results, performance, prospects or opportunities, as well as those of the markets we serve or intend to serve, to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements. You can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate to matters of a strictly factual or historical nature and generally discuss or relate to forecasts, estimates or other expectations regarding future events. Generally, the words "believe," "expect," "intend," "estimate," "anticipate," "project," "may," "can," "could," "might," "will" and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements, including statements related to expected operating and performing results, planned transactions, planned objectives of management, future developments or conditions in the industries in which we participate and other trends, developments and uncertainties that may affect our business in the future.
Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among other things: interest rate changes and the availability of mortgage financing; continued volatility in, and potential further deterioration of, the debt and equity markets; competition within the industries in which PulteGroup operates; the availability and cost of land and other raw materials used by PulteGroup in its homebuilding operations; the availability and cost of insurance covering risks associated with PulteGroup's businesses; shortages and the cost of labor; weather related slowdowns; slow growth initiatives and/or local building moratoria; governmental regulation directed at or affecting the housing market, the homebuilding industry or construction activities; uncertainty in the mortgage lending industry, including revisions to underwriting standards and repurchase requirements associated with the sale of mortgage loans; the interpretation of or changes to tax, labor and environmental laws; economic changes nationally or in PulteGroup's local markets, including inflation, deflation, changes in consumer confidence and preferences and the state of the market for homes in general; legal or regulatory proceedings or claims; required accounting changes; terrorist acts and other acts of war; and other factors of national, regional and global scale, including those of a political, economic, business and competitive nature. See PulteGroup's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, and other public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to our businesses.
About PulteGroup
PulteGroup, Inc. (NYSE: PHM) based in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., is America's premier home building company with operations in 67 markets, 29 states and the District of Columbia. The Company has an unmatched capacity to meet the needs of all buyer segments through its brand portfolio that includes Pulte Homes, Centex Homes and Del Webb. As the most awarded homebuilder in customer satisfaction, the brands of PulteGroup have consistently ranked among the nation's top homebuilders as surveyed by third-party, independent national customer satisfaction studies.
For more information about PulteGroup, Inc. and PulteGroup brands, see ; ; ;
www.pultegroup.com
www.pulte.com
www.centex.com
www.delwebb.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This press release contains information about home sale gross margin excluding impairments, interest expense, and merger-related costs, which is considered a non-GAAP financial measure under the SEC's rules and should be considered in addition to, rather than as a substitute for, home sale gross margin (which we define as home sale revenues less home cost of revenues) as a measure of our operating performance. Management and our local divisions use this measure in evaluating the operating performance of each community and in making strategic decisions regarding sales pricing, construction and development pace, product mix, and other daily operating decisions. We believe it is a relevant and useful measure to investors for evaluating our performance through gross profit generated on homes delivered during a given period and for comparing our operating performance to other companies in the homebuilding industry. Although other companies in the homebuilding industry report similar information, the methods used may differ. We urge investors to understand the methods used by other companies in the homebuilding industry to calculate gross margins and any adjustments thereto before comparing our measures to that of such other companies.
The following table sets forth a reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to home sale gross margin, a GAAP financial measure, which management believes to be the GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to this non-GAAP financial measure ($000's omitted):
 
 
 


