FILE:PHM/PHM-8K-20121204092127.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): November 30, 2012
PULTEGROUP, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its Charter)
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
In addition to the foregoing, the Company will pay Mr. Bertero the amount of $32,542.38 as an allowance for COBRA premiums relating to medical, dental and vision benefits sponsored by the Company.
The Agreement, together with Mr. Bertero's Confidentiality, Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Agreement executed on September 10, 2009, which continues in effect following his separation, also contains various covenants, including covenants relating to non-competition, non-solicitation, confidentiality and cooperation.
The foregoing summary of the Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibit 10.1    Severance Agreement between the Company and John B. Bertero III, dated November 30, 2012.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

EMPLOYEE SEVERANCE AGREEMENT
This Employee Severance Agreemen
t (the Agreement) is entered into by and between PulteGroup, Inc., a Michigan Corporation (the Company) and John B. Bertero III (You) this 30th day of November 2012. The term Company means and includes PulteGroup, Inc., its successors, assigns, parents, subsidiaries, divisions and/or affiliates (whether incorporated or unincorporated), all of its related entities, and all of the past and present directors, officers, trustees and employees of each.
You agree that the Severance Pay is over and above any sums earned by You as wages, commissions and/or bonuses through your termination date. This Severance Pay will be payable to You within thirty (30) days after the effective date of this Agreement provided that You timely return all Company property.
*Payment, if any, for the performance periods listed above is based on the actual performance of the Company and will be prorated through Your termination date [based on the 335 days You were employed in 2012].
50055 - TF8 - NOADAB
50055 - TF8 - NOADAB
The parties agree that the Companys obligation to make the severance payment is contingent upon Your timely return of all property. You agree to submit any claim for reimbursable expenses within five days of your termination date or such claim for expenses is waived.
You agree that the Company will be entitled to an immediate temporary restraining order or injunction for a violation of the non-solicitation and/or confidentiality provisions.
50055 - TF8 - NOADAB
The parties desire to give effect to the provisions set forth in the Non-competition and Non-solicitations sections referenced above to the full extent allowed by law and in the event any court or arbitrator determines that the above-stated restrictions are unlawful or unenforceable, said court or arbitrator shall be requested by You and the Company to recast such restrictions to the maximum extent enforceable.
Additionally, the provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon You and Your heirs, executors, administrators and other legal representatives.
In exchange for and in consideration of all the Severance Benefits, You hereby fully and forever release the Company from any and all actions or claims for personal or monetary relief by You, known or unknown, foreseen or unforeseen, arising out of Your employment with the Company or the termination of Your employment with the Company, including, but not limited to, any claims and actions for or in tort, contract, discrimination, wrongful discharge, and/or arising under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Older Workers Benefits Protection Act, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (as amended), the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, and any other federal, state, or local statutes, law or rules, or any types of damages, wages, costs, or relief otherwise available to You. You agree that, except as set forth herein, You are giving up the right to pursue any administrative and legal claims against the Company. This provision does not release claims for: a) compensation for illness or injury or medical expenses under any workers compensation statute; b) vested benefits under any plan maintained by the Company that provides for retirement benefits; c) health benefits under any law or policy or plan currently maintained by the Company that provides for health insurance continuation or conversion rights; or d) any claim that cannot be waived or released by private agreement.
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prohibit You from filing a charge with or participating in any investigation or proceeding conducted by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, National Labor Relations Board, or comparable state or local agency. Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraph, You agree to waive any right to recover monetary damages in any charge, complaint or lawsuit against the Company filed by You or by anyone else on Your behalf.
In exchange for and in consideration of all the Severance Benefits, You hereby fully and forever release the Company (as well as the fiduciaries and administrators of any employee benefit plans (the
Plans
) sponsored by the Company), from any and all actions or claims for personal
50055 - TF8 - NOADAB
or monetary relief by You, known or unknown, foreseen or unforeseen, that stem from or are related to the administration of the Plans and arising under ERISA, 29 U.S.C.  1001-1461. You agree that this release of claims specifically includes any and all claims that might be brought in an individual or derivative capacity on behalf of the Plans under 29 U.S.C.  1132(a)(2), as well as any claims for other appropriate equitable relief under 29 U.S.C.  1132(a)(3). This release does not apply to any claims under 29 U.S.C.  1132(a)(1)(B) for benefits accrued under any Plan but unpaid as of the date of this Agreement, which remain subject to and governed by the terms and conditions of the Plans.
You also agree that: (a) You have been properly paid for all hours worked; (b) You have not suffered any on the job injury for which You have not already filed a claim; and (c) You have been properly provided any leaves of absence because of Your health condition or a family members health condition.
You have twenty-one (21) days from the date You receive this Agreement to consider whether to sign it. In the event You sign this Agreement, You have an additional period of seven (7) days from the execution date in which to revoke this Agreement in writing. This Agreement does not become effective or enforceable until this revocation period has expired. No payments will be made to You or on Your behalf under this Agreement until this revocation period has expired. You are advised to consult an attorney prior to executing this Agreement. You understand that You are not waiving any claims that arise in the future. You acknowledge that the consideration paid pursuant to this Agreement is more than You would have otherwise been legally entitled to receive and that such consideration is adequate consideration for the agreements and covenants contained herein.
You understand that nothing in this Agreement is intended to interfere with or deter (i) Your right to challenge the above waiver of an Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (as amended) (ADEA) claim or state law age discrimination claim as not knowing or voluntary, or (ii) Your right to file an ADEA charge or ADEA complaint or state law age discrimination complaint or charge with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or any state discrimination agency or commission as a result of the above release not being knowing or voluntary, or (iii) Your right to participate in any investigation or proceeding conducted by those agencies. Further, You understand that (x) nothing in this Agreement would require You to tender back the money received under this Agreement if You seek to challenge the validity of the above ADEA or state law age discrimination waiver, (y) You do not agree to ratify any ADEA or state law age discrimination waiver that fails to comply with the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act (OWBPA) by retaining the money received under this Agreement, and (z) nothing in this Agreement is intended to require the payment of damages, attorneys fees or costs to the Company should You challenge the waiver of an ADEA or state law age discrimination claim or file an ADEA or state law age discrimination claim, except as authorized by federal or state law.
50055 - TF8 - NOADAB
(iii) or as short-term deferrals pursuant to Treasury regulation 1.409A-1(b)(4), and for this purpose each payment shall be considered a separate payment. In the event that the terms of this Agreement would subject You to taxes or penalties under Section 409A of the Code (409A Penalties), the Company and You shall cooperate diligently to amend the terms of this Agreement to avoid such 409A Penalties, to the extent possible; provided that in no event shall the Company be responsible for any 409A Penalties that arise in connection with any amounts payable under this Agreement. Your separation from service, within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, will occur on November 30, 2012. Any reimbursement payable to You pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise shall be conditioned on the submission by You of all expense reports reasonably required by the Company under any applicable expense reimbursement policy, and shall be paid to You within 30 days following receipt of such expense reports, but in no event later than the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which You incurred the reimbursable expense. Any amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement, or in-kind benefit provided, during a calendar year shall not affect the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement, or in-kind benefit to be provided, during any other calendar year. The right to any reimbursement or in-kind benefit pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise shall not be subject to liquidation or exchange for any other benefit.
If any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall attach only to such provision and shall not in any manner affect or render invalid or unenforceable any other provision of this Agreement and this Agreement shall be carried out as if any such invalid or unenforceable provision were not contained herein. Nothing in this Agreement is intended to cause You to believe You cannot seek a judicial determination of the validity of the Agreement under the ADEA.
This Agreement shall be effective and irrevocable within the time frame set forth above and reflects the entire Agreement between You and the Company. This Agreement may be modified only by a writing signed by You and the Company.
                    
    
                    
50055 - TF8 - NOADAB
This Employee Severance Agreement is freely, knowingly and voluntarily given without duress or coercion. I understand and agree to all provisions and terms stated in this Agreement and have been afforded sufficient and reasonable time to consider whether to enter into the Agreement, and an opportunity to consult with legal counsel. I understand that by signing this Agreement, I am waiving and releasing any rights I might presently have under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act.    
50055 - TF8 - NOADAB


