FILE:NKE/NKE-8K-20091123161717.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Effective November 19, 2009, the NIKE, Inc. (the "Company") Board of Directors appointed Dr. Phyllis M. Wise to serve as a Director of the Company.
 
Phyllis M. Wise, Ph.D., is Executive Vice President and Provost of the University of Washington, where she is also professor of physiology and biophysics, biology, and obstetrics and gynecology.  She joined the University of Maryland School of Medicine as an assistant professor in 1976, was appointed associate professor in 1982, and professor in 1987.  Dr. Wise was appointed a professor and chair of the department of physiology at the University of Kentucky in 1993, and was appointed dean of the division of biological sciences and distinguished professor of neurobiology at the University of California Davis in 2002.  In 2005, she was appointed Vice President and Provost at the University of Washington, and was appointed Executive Vice President and Provost in 2007.  Dr. Wise has a doctorate in zoology from the University of Michigan, has an honorary doctorate from Swarthmore College, and is an elected member of the Institute of Medicine.
There was no arrangement or understanding pursuant to which Dr. Wise was elected as a director, and there are no related party transactions between the Company and Dr. Wise.  Dr. Wise will also serve on the Company's Corporate Responsibility Committee.
The Company issued a press release on November 19, 2009 announcing the appointment of Dr. Wise.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
The following exhibits are being furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
Exhibit 99.1                      Press Release dated November 19, 2009.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Phyllis M. Wise Joins Nikes Board of Directors
19 November, 2009
 
 
 NIKE, Inc. (NYSE:NKE) today announced that Phyllis M. Wise, Ph.D. has been appointed to the Company's Board of Directors. Wise, 64, is the Executive Vice President and Provost of the University of Washington, where she is also professor of physiology and biophysics, biology, and obstetrics and gynecology.
BEAVERTON, Ore. (Nov. 19, 2009)
 
 
"Dr. Wises outstanding academic career, experience as a respected university leader and administrator of a multi-billion-dollar budget for the University of Washington, is a rare combination that makes her an ideal addition to our board, said Philip H. Knight, Nike Founder and Chairman. We look forward to her contributions to expand Nikes position as the industry leader in innovation.
 
 
Wise was appointed Vice President and Provost of the University of Washington in August 2005 and became Executive Vice President in September 2007.
 
 
Wise has been a faculty member at a number of prominent research universities, first joining the University of Maryland School of Medicine as an assistant professor in 1976, and thereafter was appointed associate professor in 1982 and professor in 1987. At the University of Kentucky, she was appointed as professor and chair of the department of physiology in 1993 and in 2002, Wise was appointed as dean of the division of biological sciences and distinguished professor of neurobiology at the University of California Davis.
 
 
Wise has a doctorate in zoology from the University of Michigan, an honorary doctorate from Swarthmore College and is an elected member of the National Academies Institute of Medicine.
 
 
About NIKE, Inc.
 
 
NIKE, Inc. based near Beaverton, Oregon, is the world's leading designer, marketer and distributor of authentic athletic footwear, apparel, equipment and accessories for a wide variety of sports and fitness activities. Wholly-owned Nike subsidiaries include Cole Haan, which designs, markets and distributes luxury shoes, handbags, accessories and coats; Converse Inc., which designs, markets and distributes athletic footwear, apparel and accessories; Hurley International LLC, which designs, markets and distributes action sports and youth lifestyle footwear, apparel and accessories; and Umbro Ltd., a leading United Kingdom-based global football (soccer) brand. For more information, visit .
www.nikebiz.com
 
 
 
 


