FILE:NKE/NKE-8K-20090622140945.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Effective June 18, 2009, the NIKE, Inc. (the "Company") Board of Directors appointed Dr. John C. Lechleiter to serve as a Director of the Company.
John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D, 55, is chairman of the board, president, and chief executive officer of Eli Lilly and Company ("Lilly"). Dr. Lechleiter joined Lilly in 1979 as a senior organic chemist in the process research and development division, and has held management positions in England and the U.S. He was named vice president of pharmaceutical product development in 1993 and vice president of regulatory affairs in 1994. In 1996, he was named vice president for development and regulatory affairs. Dr. Lechleiter became senior vice president of pharmaceutical products in 1998, and executive vice president of pharmaceutical products and corporate development in 2001. He was named executive vice president of pharmaceutical operations in 2004. Dr. Lechleiter was appointed president and chief operating officer of Lilly in 2005, when he also joined Lilly's board of directors. He was named president and chief executive officer in April 2008 and became chairman on January 1, 2009.
There was no arrangement or understanding pursuant to which Dr. Lechleiter was elected as a director, and there are no related party transactions between the Company and Dr. Lechleiter.  Dr. Lechleiter will serve on the Company's Compensation Committee and the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
The Company issued a press release on June 18, 2009 announcing the appointment of Dr. Lechleiter.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
The following exhibits are being furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
Exhibit 99.1                                Press Release dated June 18, 2009.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
           
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
John C. Lechleiter Joins Nikes Board of Directors 18 June, 2009
 
 NIKE, Inc. (NYSE: NKE) today announced that John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D. has been appointed to the Companys Board of Directors.
BEAVERTON, Ore. (June 18, 2009)
 
Lechleiter, 55, is chairman, president, and chief executive officer of Eli Lilly and Company, the Indianapolis-based global pharmaceutical company with over $20 billion in revenue.
 
Johns combination of executive leadership and expertise leading a global brand makes him an ideal addition to our board, said Philip H. Knight, Nike founder and chairman. We look forward to his contributions to expand Nikes position as the industry leader in innovation.
 
Lechleiter was named president and chief executive officer of Lilly in April 2008 and became chairman of the board in January 2009. He served as president and chief operating officer of Lilly since 2005, when he also joined Lillys board of directors.
 
Lechleiter, who has a doctorate in organic chemistry from Harvard University, has spent 30 years with Lilly, where he has held a variety of senior management positions in both the U.K. and the U.S., including vice president for development and regulatory affairs, executive vice president of pharmaceutical products and corporate development, and executive vice president of pharmaceutical operations.
 
Lechleiter is a member of the Business Roundtable and the Business Council. He serves on the board of directors of Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, Fairbanks Institute, the United Way of Central Indiana, and Indianapolis Downtown, Inc. He also serves as a member of the board of trustees of Xavier University (Cincinnati, Ohio).
 
About NIKE, Inc.
 
NIKE, Inc. based near Beaverton, Oregon, is the world's leading designer, marketer and distributor of authentic athletic footwear, apparel, equipment and accessories for a wide variety of sports and fitness activities. Wholly owned Nike subsidiaries include Converse Inc., which designs, markets and distributes athletic footwear, apparel and accessories; Cole Haan, which designs, markets and distributes luxury shoes, handbags, accessories and coats; Umbro Ltd., a leading United Kingdom-based global football (soccer) brand; and Hurley International LLC, which designs, markets and distributes action sports and youth lifestyle footwear, apparel and accessories. For more information, visit .
nikebiz.com
 
 
 
 


