FILE:NKE/NKE-8K-20100923161829.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Today NIKE, Inc. issued a press release disclosing financial results for the fiscal quarter ended August 31, 2010.  The text of the release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished with this Form 8-K:
99.1 Press Release dated September 23, 2010.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 NIKE, Inc. (NYSE:NKE) today reported financial results for its fiscal 2011 first quarter ended August 31, 2010. Earnings per share for the quarter were up 10 percent on 8 percent higher net revenue as a result of gross margin expansion driven by the strength of the NIKE, Inc. brands in the marketplace and continued clean inventory positions.
BEAVERTON, Ore., Sept. 23, 2010
We had a great first quarter. It demonstrates the power of our growth strategy, which is to create innovative products, amazing brand experiences, and premium retail destinations wherever consumers connect with NIKE, said Mark Parker, President and CEO, NIKE, Inc. Going forward well continue to maximize the flexibility, balance and alignment that we have built into our portfolio of brands and categories. Those strengths will help us navigate the continued uncertainty in the macro-economic picture. More importantly they help us leverage the global appetite for sports and innovation, which has never been stronger. Thats how we continue to grow our businesses, strengthen our balance sheet and increase our returns to shareholders over the long term.*
Futures Orders
As of the end of the quarter worldwide futures orders for NIKE Brand athletic footwear and apparel, scheduled for delivery from September 2010 through January 2011, totaled $7.1 billion, 10 percent higher than orders reported for the same period last year. Excluding currency changes, reported orders would have increased 13 percent.*
By geography, futures orders were as follows:
 
 
 
First Quarter Income Statement Review
August 31, 2010 Balance Sheet Review
 
 
Share Repurchases
During the first quarter, the Company repurchased a total of 7.3 million shares for approximately $517 million as part of the Companys four-year, $5 billion share repurchase program, approved by the Board of Directors in September 2008. As of the end of the first quarter the Company has purchased a total of 13.9 million shares for approximately $971 million under this program.
Conference Call
NIKE management will host a conference call beginning at approximately 2:00 p.m. PT on September 23, 2010, to review first quarter results. The conference call will be broadcast live over the Internet and can be accessed at www.nikebiz.com/investors. For those unable to listen to the live broadcast, an archived version will be available at the same location through 9:00 p.m. PT, September 30, 2010.
 
 
 
About NIKE, Inc.
NIKE, Inc. based near Beaverton, Oregon, is the world's leading designer, marketer and distributor of authentic athletic footwear, apparel, equipment and accessories for a wide variety of sports and fitness activities. Wholly-owned NIKE subsidiaries include Cole Haan, which designs, markets and distributes luxury shoes, handbags, accessories and coats; Converse Inc., which designs, markets and distributes athletic footwear, apparel and accessories; Hurley International LLC, which designs, markets and distributes action sports and youth lifestyle footwear, apparel and accessories; and Umbro Ltd., a leading United Kingdom-based global football (soccer) brand. For more information, NIKEs earnings releases and other financial information are available on the Internet at www.nikebiz.com/investors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


