FILE:NKE/NKE-8K-20101221162215.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Today NIKE, Inc. issued a press release disclosing financial results for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2010.  The text of the release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished with this Form 8-K:
99.1 Press Release dated November 30, 2010.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 NIKE, Inc. (NYSE:NKE) today reported financial results for its fiscal 2011 second quarter ended November 30, 2010. Earnings per share for the quarter were up 24 percent on 10 percent higher net revenue as NIKE, Inc. brands continued to experience strong sales in the marketplace and benefit from clean inventory positions while better leveraging SG&A expenses.
BEAVERTON, Ore., Dec. 21, 2010
We had a great second quarter. Almost every brand, category and geography delivered growth, said Mark Parker, President and CEO of NIKE, Inc. We continue to outperform the market thanks to our innovative product, compelling brands and strong marketplace management. Thats good for athletes and consumers, good for our industry, and its good for our shareholders. Going forward, were in the enviable position of having far more opportunities than challenges. Im confident our strategies can continue to deliver sustainable, profitable growth.*
Futures Orders
As of the end of the quarter futures orders for NIKE Brand athletic footwear and apparel, scheduled for delivery from December 2010 through April 2011, totaled $7.7 billion, 11 percent higher than orders reported for the same period last year with minimal impact from changes in foreign currency exchange rates compared to the prior year.*
By geography, futures orders were as follows:
 
Second Quarter Income Statement Review
November 30, 2010 Balance Sheet Review
 
 
Share Repurchases
During the second quarter, the Company repurchased a total of 3.5 million shares for approximately $280 million as part of the Companys four-year, $5 billion share repurchase program, approved by the Board of Directors in September 2008. As of the end of the second quarter the Company has purchased a total of 17.4 million shares for approximately $1.3 billion under this program.
Conference Call
NIKE management will host a conference call beginning at approximately 2:00 p.m. PT on December 21, 2010, to review second quarter results. The conference call will be broadcast live over the Internet and can be accessed at www.nikebiz.com/investors. For those unable to listen to the live broadcast, an archived version will be available at the same location through 9:00 p.m. PT, December 28, 2010.
About NIKE, Inc.
NIKE, Inc. based near Beaverton, Oregon, is the world's leading designer, marketer and distributor of authentic athletic footwear, apparel, equipment and accessories for a wide variety of sports and fitness activities. Wholly-owned NIKE subsidiaries include Cole Haan, which designs, markets and distributes luxury shoes, handbags, accessories and coats; Converse Inc., which designs, markets and distributes athletic footwear, apparel and accessories; Hurley International LLC, which designs, markets and distributes action sports and youth lifestyle footwear, apparel and accessories; and Umbro Ltd., a leading United Kingdom-based global football (soccer) brand. For more information, NIKEs earnings releases and other financial information are available on the Internet at www.nikebiz.com/investors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


