FILE:NKE/NKE-8K-20110317161932.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Today NIKE, Inc. issued a press release disclosing financial results for the fiscal quarter ended February 28, 2011.  The text of the release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished with this Form 8-K:
99.1 Press Release dated February 28, 2011.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NIKE, Inc. (NYSE:NKE) today reported financial results for its fiscal 2011 third quarter ended February 28, 2011. Earnings per share for the quarter were up 7 percent on a 7 percent increase in net revenue as higher NIKE, Inc. sales and SG&A expense leverage offset lower gross margin results.
BEAVERTON, Ore., March 17, 2011
Our solid third-quarter results demonstrate the power of the NIKE, Inc. portfolio, said Mark Parker, President and CEO of NIKE, Inc. Our unique ability to create deep connections with consumers, led by an impressive pipeline of innovative product and exciting retail experiences, continues to strengthen our brands and accelerate growth. Moving forward, well continue to leverage our scale, financial resources, and operational discipline to drive near and long-term value to shareholders.*
Futures Orders
As of the end of the quarter futures orders for NIKE Brand athletic footwear and apparel, scheduled for delivery from March through July 2011, totaled $7.9 billion, 11 percent higher than orders reported for the same period last year. Excluding currency changes, reported orders would have increased 9 percent.*
By geography, futures orders were as follows:
 
Third Quarter Income Statement Review
February 28, 2011 Balance Sheet Review
 
 
Share Repurchases
During the third quarter, NIKE, Inc. repurchased a total of 5.5 million shares for approximately $468 million as part of its four-year, $5 billion share repurchase program, approved by the Board of Directors in September 2008. As of the end of the third quarter the Company has purchased a total of 22.9 million shares for approximately $1.7 billion under this program.
Conference Call
NIKE, Inc. management will host a conference call beginning at approximately 2:00 p.m. PT on March 17, 2011, to review third quarter results. The conference call will be broadcast live over the Internet and can be accessed at www.nikebiz.com/investors. For those unable to listen to the live broadcast, an archived version will be available at the same location through 9:00 p.m. PT, March 24, 2011.
About NIKE, Inc.
NIKE, Inc. based near Beaverton, Oregon, is the world's leading designer, marketer and distributor of authentic athletic footwear, apparel, equipment and accessories for a wide variety of sports and fitness activities. Wholly-owned Nike subsidiaries include Cole Haan, which designs, markets and distributes luxury shoes, handbags, accessories and coats; Converse Inc., which designs, markets and distributes athletic footwear, apparel and accessories; Hurley International LLC, which designs, markets and distributes action sports and youth lifestyle footwear, apparel and accessories; and Umbro Ltd., a leading United Kingdom-based global football (soccer) brand. For more information, NIKEs earnings releases and other financial information are available on the Internet at www.nikebiz.com/investors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to fiscal year 2011 presentation.  These changes had no impact on previously reported results of operations or shareholders' equity.
1
 
Fiscal 2011 results have been restated using fiscal 2010 exchange rates for the comparative period to enhance the visibility of the underlying business trends excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
2
 
Global Brand Divisions primarily represent NIKE Brand licensing businesses that are not part of a geographic operating segment.
3
 
Other businesses represent activities of Cole Haan, Converse, Hurley, NIKE Golf and Umbro.
4
 
Corporate revenues primarily consist of foreign currency revenue-related hedge gains and losses generated by entities within the NIKE Brand geographic operating segments through our centrally managed foreign exchange risk management program and foreign currency gains and losses resulting from the difference between actual foreign currency rates and standard rates assigned to these entities, which are used to record any non-functional currency revenues into the entity's functional currency.
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company evaluates performance of individual operating segments based on earnings before interest and  taxes (also commonly referred to as EBIT), which represents net income before interest expense, net and income taxes.
1
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to fiscal year 2011 presentation. These changes had no impact on previously reported results of operations or shareholders' equity.
2
 
Global Brand Divisions primarily represent NIKE Brand licensing businesses that are not part of a geographic operating segment and general and administrative expenses that are centrally managed for the NIKE Brand.
3
 
Other businesses represent activities of Cole Haan, Converse, Hurley, NIKE Golf and Umbro.
4
 
Corporate consists of unallocated general and administrative expenses, which includes expenses associated with centrally managed departments, depreciation and amortization related to the Companys corporate headquarters, unallocated insurance and benefit programs, certain foreign currency gains and losses, including certain hedge gains and losses, corporate eliminations and other items.
5
 
 
 


