FILE:NKE/NKE-8K-20111220161955.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Today NIKE, Inc. issued a press release disclosing financial results for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2011.  The text of the release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished with this Form 8-K:
99.1 Press Release dated December 20, 2011.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                              
 NIKE, Inc. (NYSE:NKE) today reported financial results for its fiscal 2012 second quarter ended November 30, 2011. Earnings per share for the quarter rose 6 percent as a result of continued strong demand for NIKE, Inc. brands, SG&A expense leverage and a lower average share count, which more than offset the impact of a lower gross margin.
BEAVERTON, Ore., Dec. 20, 2011
Our strong second quarter results demonstrate that the NIKE, Inc. portfolio is a powerful engine for growth, said Mark Parker, President and CEO, NIKE, Inc. Were able to accomplish this by staying focused on what we do best  deliver innovative products and experiences that serve athletes, inspire consumers and reward our shareholders. Going forward well continue to use the unique power of our portfolio to drive growth, manage risk and connect with consumers.*
Second Quarter Income Statement Review
November 30, 2011 Balance Sheet Review
 
 
Share Repurchases
During the second quarter, a total of 7.6 million shares were repurchased for approximately $672 million as part of our four-year, $5 billion share repurchase program, approved by the Board of Directors in September 2008. As of the end of the second quarter, a total of 45.6 million shares were repurchased for approximately $3.6 billion under this program.
Futures Orders
As of the end of the quarter worldwide futures orders for NIKE Brand athletic footwear and apparel, scheduled for delivery from December 2011 through April 2012, totaled $8.9 billion, 13 percent higher than orders reported for the same period last year. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates did not have a significant impact on reported
futures orders.*
Conference Call
NIKE management will host a conference call beginning at approximately 2:00 p.m. PT on December 20, 2011, to review second quarter results. The conference call will be broadcast live over the Internet and can be accessed at http://investors.nikeinc.com. For those unable to listen to the live broadcast, an archived version will be available at the same location through 9:00 p.m. PT, December 27, 2011.
About NIKE, Inc.
NIKE, Inc. based near Beaverton, Oregon, is the world's leading designer, marketer and distributor of authentic athletic footwear, apparel, equipment and accessories for a wide variety of sports and fitness activities. Wholly-owned NIKE subsidiaries include Cole Haan, which designs, markets and distributes luxury shoes, handbags, accessories and coats; Converse Inc., which designs, markets and distributes athletic footwear, apparel and accessories; Hurley International LLC, which designs, markets and distributes action sports and youth lifestyle footwear, apparel and accessories; and Umbro International Limited, which designs, distributes and licenses athletic and casual footwear, apparel and equipment, primarily for global football (soccer). For more information, NIKEs earnings releases and other financial information are available on the Internet at http://investors.nikeinc.com.
(Additional Tables Follow)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to fiscal year 2012 presentation.  These changes had no impact on previously reported results of operations or shareholders' equity.
1
Fiscal 2012 results have been restated using fiscal 2011 exchange rates for the comparative period to enhance the visibility of the underlying business trends excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
2
Global Brand Divisions primarily represent NIKE Brand licensing businesses that are not part of a geographic operating segment.
3
Other businesses represent activities of Cole Haan, Converse, Hurley, NIKE Golf and Umbro.
4
Corporate revenues primarily consist of intercompany revenue eliminations and foreign currency revenue-related hedge gains and losses generated by entities within the NIKE Brand geographic operating segments and certain Other Businesses through our centrally managed foreign exchange risk management program.
5
 
 
 
 
The Company evaluates performance of individual operating segments based on earnings before interest and  taxes (also commonly referred to as EBIT), which represents net income before interest (income) expense, net, and income taxes.
1
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to fiscal year 2012 presentation.  These changes had no impact on previously reported results of operations or shareholders' equity.
2
Global Brand Divisions primarily represent NIKE Brand licensing businesses that are not part of a geographic operating segment and  general and administrative expenses that are centrally managed for the NIKE Brand.
3
Other businesses represent activities of Cole Haan, Converse, Hurley, NIKE Golf and Umbro.
4
Corporate consists of unallocated general and administrative expenses, which includes expenses associated with centrally managed departments, depreciation and amortization related to the Companys corporate headquarters, unallocated insurance and benefit programs, certain foreign currency gains and losses, including certain hedge gains and losses, corporate eliminations and other items.
5
 
 
 
 
Futures orders by geography and in total for NIKE Brand athletic footwear and apparel scheduled for delivery from December 2011 through April 2012.
1
 
The reported futures and advance orders growth is not necessarily indicative of our expectation of revenue growth during this period. This is due to year-over-year changes in shipment timing and because the mix of orders can shift between advance/futures and at-once orders and the fulfillment of certain orders may fall outside of the schedule noted above. In addition, exchange rate fluctuations as well as differing levels of order cancellations and discounts can cause differences in the comparisons between advance/futures orders and actual revenues. Moreover, a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures and advance orders, including at-once and close-out sales of NIKE Brand footwear and apparel, sales of NIKE Brand equipment, sales from certain of our Direct to Consumer operations, and sales from our Other Businesses.
 
Reported futures restated using prior year exchange rates to enhance the visibility of the underlying business trends excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
2
 
 
 
 
 
 


