FILE:NKE/NKE-8K-20110616165205.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On June 16, 2011, Jill K. Conway and Ralph D. DeNunzio, directors of the Company, notified the Company of their decision not to stand for re-election as directors at the Companys 2011 annual meeting of shareholders.  Their decision was not the result of any disagreement with the Company or its management.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished with this Form 8-K:
99.1          Press Release dated June 16, 2011.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
BEAVERTON, Ore., (June 16, 2011)  NIKE, Inc. (NYSE:NKE) announced today Jill K. Conway and Ralph D DeNunzio have decided to retire from the NIKE Board of Directors and not stand for re-election at the annual meeting of shareholders in September 2011.
Conway, 77, who joined NIKEs board in 1987 serves as Chair of the boards Corporate Responsibility Committee, and a member of its Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. DeNunzio, 79, who joined the board in 1988, serves as Chair of the boards Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees, and a member of its Finance Committee.
For more than two decades, weve been privileged to have both Jill Conway and Ralph DeNunzio as key leaders of our board. They have provided valuable insight and contributions and Im extremely grateful for the leadership they have brought to NIKE over the years, said chairman of the board Philip H. Knight. Jill established our Corporate Responsibility Committee in 2001, elevating environmental and labor issues, and sustainable products, to the boardroom.  Ralph has provided seasoned financial guidance and has been the voice of compensation integrity, resulting in the companys fiscal strength and rigorous compensation programs that we see today. Ralph and Jill have given me thoughtful counsel over the years, and I hate to see them go.
Conway and DeNunzio will serve until the 2011 shareholder meeting, when the size of the board will be reduced from fourteen to twelve. The board will announce the succeeding chairs of the boards Compensation, Corporate Responsibility, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees at that meeting.
About NIKE, Inc.
NIKE, Inc. based near Beaverton, Oregon, is the world's leading designer, marketer and distributor of authentic athletic footwear, apparel, equipment and accessories for a wide variety of sports and fitness activities. Wholly-owned Nike subsidiaries include Cole Haan, which designs, markets and distributes luxury shoes, handbags, accessories and coats; Converse Inc., which designs, markets and distributes athletic footwear, apparel and accessories; Hurley International LLC, which designs, markets and distributes action sports and youth lifestyle footwear, apparel and accessories; and Umbro Ltd., a leading United Kingdom-based global football (soccer) brand. For more information, visit .
www.nikebiz.com


