FILE:NKE/NKE-8K-20110922161705.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Today NIKE, Inc. issued a press release disclosing financial results for the fiscal quarter ended August 31, 2011.  The text of the release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished with this Form 8-K:
99.1 Press Release dated September 22, 2011.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NIKE, INC. REPORTS FISCAL 2012 FIRST QUARTER RESULTS
 NIKE, Inc. (NYSE:NKE) today reported financial results for its fiscal 2012 first quarter ended August 31, 2011. Diluted earnings per share and revenue represented new records as a strong demand for NIKE, Inc. brands, SG&A expense leverage, tax efficiencies and a lower average share count offset the impact of a lower gross margin.
BEAVERTON, Ore., Sept. 22, 2011
 
Were off to a strong start in fiscal year 2012. We have a powerful and diverse portfolio of brands and businesses, and were focused on leveraging them to drive growth and create value for our shareholders, said Mark Parker, President and CEO, NIKE, Inc. It pays to be prudent in times like these. Its also essential that we remain on the offense, creating opportunities. We do that by connecting with consumers, designing innovative products and delivering amazing experiences. Thats how we continue to lead this company and the industry into the future.*
First Quarter Income Statement Review
August 31, 2011 Balance Sheet Review
 
 
Share Repurchases
During the first quarter, we repurchased a total of 7.7 million shares for approximately $649 million as part of our four-year, $5 billion share repurchase program, approved by the Board of Directors in September 2008. As of the end of the first quarter, we have purchased a total of 38.0 million shares for approximately $3.0 billion under this program.
Futures Orders
As of the end of the quarter worldwide futures orders for NIKE Brand athletic footwear and apparel, scheduled for delivery from September 2011 through January 2012, totaled $8.5 billion, 16 percent higher than orders reported for the same period last year. Excluding currency changes, reported orders would have increased 13 percent.*
Conference Call
NIKE management will host a conference call beginning at approximately 2:00 p.m. PT on September 22, 2011, to review first quarter results. The conference call will be broadcast live over the Internet and can be accessed at www.nikebiz.com/investors. For those unable to listen to the live broadcast, an archived version will be available at the same location through 9:00 p.m. PT, September 29, 2011.
About NIKE, Inc.
NIKE, Inc. based near Beaverton, Oregon, is the world's leading designer, marketer and distributor of authentic athletic footwear, apparel, equipment and accessories for a wide variety of sports and fitness activities. Wholly-owned Nike subsidiaries include Cole Haan, which designs, markets and distributes luxury shoes, handbags, accessories and coats; Converse Inc., which designs, markets and distributes athletic footwear, apparel and accessories; Hurley International LLC, which designs, markets and distributes action sports and youth lifestyle footwear, apparel and accessories; and Umbro International Limited, which designs, distributes and licenses athletic and casual footwear, apparel and equipment, primarily for global football (soccer). For more information, NIKEs earnings releases and other financial information are available on the Internet at www.nikebiz.com/investors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to fiscal year 2012 presentation.  These changes had no impact on previously reported results of operations or shareholders' equity.
1
Fiscal 2012 results have been restated using fiscal 2011 exchange rates for the comparative period to enhance the visibility of the underlying business trends excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
2
Global Brand Divisions primarily represent NIKE Brand licensing businesses that are not part of a geographic operating segment.
3
Other businesses represent activities of Cole Haan, Converse, Hurley, NIKE Golf and Umbro.
4
Corporate revenues primarily consist of foreign currency revenue-related hedge gains and losses generated by entities within the NIKE Brand geographic operating segments and Other Businesses through our centrally managed foreign exchange risk management program.
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company evaluates performance of individual operating segments based on earnings before interest and  taxes (also commonly referred to as EBIT), which represents net income before interest (income), net and income taxes.
1
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to fiscal year 2012 presentation. These changes had no impact on previously reported results of operations or shareholders' equity.
2
Global Brand Divisions primarily represent NIKE Brand licensing businesses that are not part of a geographic operating segment and  general and administrative expenses that are centrally managed for the NIKE Brand
3
Other businesses represent activities of Cole Haan, Converse, Hurley, NIKE Golf and Umbro.
4
Corporate consists of unallocated general and administrative expenses, which includes expenses associated with centrally managed departments, depreciation and amortization related to the Companys corporate headquarters, unallocated insurance and benefit programs, certain foreign currency gains and losses, including certain hedge gains and losses generated from our centrally managed foreign exchange risk management program, corporate eliminations and other items
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Futures orders by geography and in total for NIKE Brand athletic footwear and apparel scheduled for delivery from September 2011 through January 2012.
1
 
The reported futures and advance orders growth is not necessarily indicative of our expectation of revenue growth during this period. This is due to year-over-year changes in shipment timing and because the mix of orders can shift between advance/futures and at-once orders and the fulfillment of certain orders may fall outside of the schedule noted above. In addition, exchange rate fluctuations as well as differing levels of order cancellations and discounts can cause differences in the comparisons between advance/futures orders and actual revenues. Moreover, a significant portion of our revenue is not derived from futures and advance orders, including at-once and close-out sales of NIKE Brand footwear and apparel, sales of NIKE Brand equipment, sales from certain of our Direct to Consumer operations, and sales from our Other Businesses.
 
Reported futures restated using prior year exchange rates to enhance the visibility of the underlying business trends excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
2
 
 
 
 
 
 


