FILE:NKE/NKE-8K-20110627162222.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Today NIKE, Inc. issued a press release disclosing financial results for the fiscal quarter ended May 31, 2011.  The text of the release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished with this Form 8-K:
99.1 Press Release dated June 27, 2011.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NIKE, Inc. (NYSE:NKE) today reported financial results for its fiscal 2011 fourth quarter and full year ended May 31, 2011. Diluted earnings per share for both the quarter and full year hit record highs, as higher revenues and SG&A expense leverage more than offset a lower gross margin rate.
BEAVERTON, Ore., June 27, 2011
 
In fiscal year 2011, we delivered exceptional results in extraordinary times, said Mark Parker, NIKE, Inc. President and CEO. Our business is organized to drive growth across multiple brands, geographies and categories, as we manage through the ever-changing macroeconomic landscape. Parker added, We continue to deliver compelling innovation to athletes and consumers, and strong returns for our shareholders. The global appetite for sports has never been stronger*
Futures Orders
As of the end of the quarter, futures orders for NIKE Brand athletic footwear and apparel scheduled for delivery from June through November 2011, totaled $10.3 billion, 15 percent higher than orders reported for the same period last year. Excluding currency changes, reported orders would have increased 12 percent.*
By geography, futures orders were as follows:
 
 
Fourth Quarter Income Statement Review
Fourth Quarter Operating Segment Review
North America
NIKE Brand revenues in North America increased 22 percent to $2.1 billion with a 1 percentage point benefit from changes in currency exchange rates. Revenues were higher on a currency neutral basis in all key categories except Football (Soccer); the strongest growth came from Running, Mens Training, Sportswear, Basketball and Womens Training, which were all up at a double-digit rate for the quarter. Footwear and Apparel revenues, up 20 and 28 percent, respectively, were driven by strong category presentations, improved product lines and earlier shipments of summer season product.
We continue to see momentum in our Direct to Consumer business with sales up 23 percent. This increase was driven by an 18 percent improvement in same store sales and 31 percent growth in online sales.
Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) grew 20 percent to $522 million as revenue growth and leverage of selling and administrative expenses more than offset a lower gross margin rate for the quarter.
Western Europe
Fourth quarter revenues for Western Europe grew 5 percent with 4 percentage points of benefit from changes in currency exchange rates. On a constant currency basis, revenues grew in every territory except France and Northern Europe. By category, currency neutral revenue growth in Running, Basketball, Mens Training and Womens Training was mostly offset by lower revenues in Sportswear and Action Sports. Football (Soccer) revenues were flat for the quarter.
Fourth quarter EBIT for Western Europe declined 27 percent to $140 million as revenue growth and lower selling and administrative expenses were more than offset by significantly lower gross margin due to unfavorable changes in currency exchange rates in addition to the factors which affected the companys overall gross margin.
Central and Eastern Europe
Reported fourth quarter revenues for Central and Eastern Europe increased 1 percent, but were down 1 percent on a currency neutral basis as higher revenues in Russia were offset by declines in most other territories. By category, currency neutral double digit revenue growth in Running, Basketball and Action Sports was more than offset by declines in other key categories, primarily Sportswear and Football (Soccer).
Compared to the same period last year, EBIT for Central and Eastern Europe decreased 15 percent to $69 million driven by lower gross margin and higher selling and administrative expenses.
Greater China
Revenues in Greater China during the fourth quarter increased 21 percent, up 16 percent excluding the impact of changes in currency exchange rates driven by expanding points of distribution and comp store sales increases. Revenues were higher on a currency neutral basis in all key categories except Football (Soccer) and Womens Training; the strongest growth came from Running, Sportswear, Mens Training and Action Sports, which were all up at double-digit rates for the quarter.
EBIT for Greater China was up 21 percent to $226 million driven by revenue growth and leverage of selling and administrative expense which more than offset a lower gross margin rate.
Japan
Japans fourth quarter results were negatively impacted both by challenging macroeconomic conditions and the March earthquake and tsunami. As overall conditions in Japan stabilize, we will continue to focus on returning this market to profitable growth.
Japans fourth quarter revenues declined 17 percent, down 26 percent excluding the impact of changes in currency exchange rates. Although revenues declined for most key categories, Running posted solid growth for the quarter.
Japans fourth quarter EBIT was down 67 percent to $20 million as result of lower revenues, gross margin declines and higher selling and administrative expenses.
Emerging Markets
Fourth quarter revenues in the Emerging Markets geography were up 25 percent, with 6 points of benefit from changes in currency exchange rates. Currency neutral revenues were higher in nearly all key categories and territories, led by Argentina, Brazil, Korea and Mexico, which were all up at a double-digit rate for the quarter.
Emerging Markets EBIT for the quarter grew at a faster rate than revenue, up 68 percent to $197 million due to stronger gross margin (as a result of positive changes in foreign exchange rates), leverage of selling and administrative expense and favorable impacts from foreign currency translation.
Other Businesses
Reported revenues for Other Businesses increased 6 percent, up 5 percent on a currency neutral basis, as double-digit growth at Converse, Cole Haan and Hurley more than offset declines at Umbro (which had tough comparisons to World Cup last year), and NIKE Golf, which experienced significant declines in its Japan business following the natural disasters in March.
Fourth quarter EBIT for our Other Businesses increased 13 percent to $81 million due to revenue growth and gross margin expansion.
Fiscal 2011 Income Statement Review
May 31, 2011 Balance Sheet Review
 
 
Share Repurchases
During the fourth quarter, NIKE, Inc. repurchased a total of 7.5 million shares for approximately $607 million as part of its four-year, $5 billion share repurchase program, approved by the Board of Directors in September 2008. As of the end of the fourth quarter, the Company has purchased a total of 30.4 million shares for approximately $2.3 billion under this program.
Investor Update Meeting
NIKE, Inc. management will host an Investor Update meeting on June 28, 2011 to provide an overview of fiscal 2011 results and review progress against the companys long-term strategy to deliver sustainable and profitable growth as outlined at its May 2010 investor meeting. NIKE, Inc. President and Chief Executive Officer Mark Parker and other members of senior management will host the meeting at the companys world headquarters in Beaverton, Ore. with presentations webcast live from approximately 10:00 am to 3:00 pm PT at . For those unable to listen to the live broadcast, an archived version will be available at the same location through midnight, September 28, 2011.
www.nikebiz.com/investors
About NIKE, Inc.
NIKE, Inc., based near Beaverton, Oregon, is the world's leading designer, marketer and distributor of authentic athletic footwear, apparel, equipment and accessories for a wide variety of sports and fitness activities. Wholly-owned Nike subsidiaries include Cole Haan, which designs, markets and distributes luxury shoes, handbags, accessories and coats; Converse Inc., which designs, markets and distributes athletic footwear, apparel and accessories; Hurley International LLC, which designs, markets and distributes action sports and youth lifestyle footwear, apparel and accessories; and Umbro Ltd., a leading United Kingdom-based global football (soccer) brand. For more information, NIKEs earnings releases and other financial information are available on the Internet at www.nikebiz.com/investors.
(Additional Tables Follow)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  The Company evaluates performance of individual operating segments based on earnings before interest and  taxes (also commonly referred to as EBIT), which represents net income before interest expense, net and income taxes.
1
 
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to fiscal year 2011 presentation. These changes had no impact on previously reported results of operations or shareholders' equity.
2
Global Brand Divisions primarily represent NIKE Brand licensing businesses that are not part of a geographic operating segment and general and administrative expenses that are centrally managed for the NIKE Brand.
3
 
Other businesses represent activities of Cole Haan, Converse, Hurley, NIKE Golf and Umbro.
4
 
Corporate consists of unallocated general and administrative expenses, which includes expenses associated with centrally managed departments, depreciation and amortization related to the Companys corporate headquarters, unallocated insurance and benefit programs, certain foreign currency gains and losses, including certain hedge gains and losses, corporate eliminations and other items.
5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


