FILE:NKE/NKE-8K-20110421162934.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
 Effective April 21, 2011, the Board of Directors of NIKE, Inc. (the "Company") appointed Elizabeth J. Comstock to serve as a Director of the Company.
   
 
Elizabeth J. Comstock is Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing officer of General Electric Company (GE).  At GE, she was appointed Vice President, Communications, NBC News Communications in 1994, Senior Vice President, NBC Corporate Communications in 1996, Vice President of Corporate Communications in 1998, Corporate Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer in 2003, President, NBC Universal Integrated Media in 2006, and Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer in 2008.  Prior to joining GE in 1994, Ms. Comstock held a succession of publicity and promotions positions at GE, NBC, CBS, and Turner Broadcasting.  She began her career in local television production in Virginia.  Ms. Comstock is a trustee of the Smithsonians Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum.
 
 There was no arrangement or understanding pursuant to which Ms. Comstock was elected as a director, and there are no related party transactions between the Company and Ms. Comstock. The committee on which she will serve has not been determined.
   
 
 The Company issued a press release on April 21, 2011 announcing the appointment of Ms. Comstock.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
   
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
The following exhibits are being furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
Exhibit 99.1                      Press Release dated April 21, 2011.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NIKE, Inc. (NYSE: NKE) today announced that Elizabeth J. Comstock has been appointed to the Companys Board of Directors.
BEAVERTON, Ore. (21 April, 2011)
Comstock, 50, is Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer of General Electric Company, the Fairfield, Connecticut-based global advanced technology, services, and finance company with more than $150 billion in revenue.
Beths leadership experience in marketing, branding, innovation, and digital and broadcast media for global brands makes her an outstanding addition to our board, said Philip H. Knight, NIKE founder and chairman. We look forward to her contributions to expand Nikes position as the worlds leading athletic brand and industry innovator.
Comstock has served as chief marketing officer since 2008, and from 2003-2006, and has led GEs organic growth and commercial innovation initiatives, along with sales, marketing, and communications.  She is responsible for the GE-wide business platforms , devoted to reducing environmental impact and new technology, and focused on achieving sustainable health through innovation by lowering costs, improving quality, and reaching more people.  She has held senior executive positions with GE, including its NBC media businesses, since 1994.  Comstock also held publicity and promotions management positions at GE, NBC, CBS, and Turner Broadcasting.
ecomagination
healthymagination,
 
Comstock is also a trustee of the Smithsonians Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum.
 
About NIKE, Inc.
NIKE, Inc. based near Beaverton, Oregon, is the world's leading designer, marketer and distributor of authentic athletic footwear, apparel, equipment and accessories for a wide variety of sports and fitness activities. Wholly owned Nike subsidiaries include Converse Inc., which designs, markets and distributes athletic footwear, apparel and accessories; Cole Haan, which designs, markets and distributes luxury shoes, handbags, accessories and coats; Umbro Ltd., a leading United Kingdom-based global football (soccer) brand; and Hurley International LLC, which designs, markets and distributes action sports and youth lifestyle footwear, apparel and accessories. For more information, visit .
nikebiz.com
Contact Information
Media:
Kellie Leonard, Senior Director, Nike Global Corporate Communications: +1 (503) 671-6171
Investor Relations:
Kelley Hall, Senior Director, Nike Investor Relations: +1 (503) 532-3793
 
 
 
 
 


