FILE:NKE/NKE-8K-20121220162705.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Today NIKE, Inc. issued a press release disclosing financial results for the fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2012.  The text of the release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished with this Form 8-K:
99.1 Press Release dated December 20, 2012.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 NIKE, Inc. (NYSE:NKE) today reported financial results for its fiscal 2013 second quarter ended November 30, 2012. For continuing operations, strong demand for NIKE, Inc. brands propelled double-digit revenue growth on a currency neutral basis, and diluted earnings per share grew faster than revenue due to SG&A leverage, an increase in other income and a lower average share count, which more than offset the impact of a slightly lower gross margin and an increase in the effective tax rate.
BEAVERTON, Ore., Dec. 20, 2012
Our strong second quarter results show that our growth strategies are working, even under challenging macroeconomic conditions, said Mark Parker, President and CEO, NIKE, Inc. We have a focused and flexible portfolio that allows us to target the biggest growth opportunities at all levels  brand, category and product. We stay connected with our consumers and that enables us to deliver innovations that excite the marketplace, grow the business and deliver more value to shareholders."*
Second Quarter Continuing Operations Income Statement Review
November 30, 2012 Balance Sheet Review for Continuing Operations
Share Repurchases
During the second quarter, NIKE, Inc. repurchased a total of 4.0 million shares for approximately $384 million and concluded the Companys previous four-year, $5 billion share repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors in September 2008. During this program the Company purchased a total of 59.4 million shares at an average price of $84.16.
Following the completion of the previous program, the Company began repurchases under the four-year, $8 billion program approved in September 2012. Of the total shares repurchased during the second quarter, 3.1 million shares were purchased under this program at a cost of approximately $294 million.
Futures Orders
As of the end of the quarter worldwide futures orders for NIKE Brand athletic footwear and apparel, scheduled for delivery from December 2012 through April 2013 totaled $9.3 billion, 6 percent higher than orders reported for the same period last year. Excluding currency changes, reported orders would have increased 7 percent.*
Discontinued Operations
The Company continually evaluates its existing portfolio of businesses to ensure resources are invested in those businesses that are accretive to the NIKE Brand, and represent the largest growth potential and highest returns. On May 31, 2012, the Company announced its intention to divest of the Umbro and Cole Haan businesses, which will allow it to focus resources on driving growth in the NIKE, Jordan, Converse and Hurley brands. 
On November 30, 2012, the Company completed the sale of certain assets of the Umbro brand to Iconix Brand Group for $225 million. For the second quarter ended November 30, 2012, the Company recorded a loss of $107 million, net of tax, on the sale of these assets, representing the sale price less the value of the Umbro assets sold, the release of the associated cumulative translation adjustment, and other miscellaneous charges, offset by a tax benefit on the loss. This loss is included in the Net Loss from Discontinued Operations.
On November 16, 2012, the Company announced it had reached a definitive agreement to sell Cole Haan to Apax Partners for $570 million. As of November 30, 2012, the Company classified Cole Haan as an asset held-for-sale and included the results of Cole Haans operations in the Net Loss from Discontinued Operations. The Company expects to complete the sale of Cole Haan in the third quarter of fiscal 2013, and to record a gain on the sale at that time.
For the second fiscal quarter of 2013, the Companys Net Loss from Discontinued Operations was $137 million. This includes the loss recorded for the sale of the Umbro brand of $107 million, net of tax, in addition to net operating losses and divesture transaction costs for Umbro and Cole Haan during the period, net of tax.
Conference Call
NIKE management will host a conference call beginning at approximately 2:00 p.m. PT on December 20, 2012, to review second quarter results. The conference call will be broadcast live over the Internet and can be accessed at http://investors.nikeinc.com. For those unable to listen to the live broadcast, an archived version will be available at the same location through 9:00 p.m. PT, December 27, 2012.
About NIKE, Inc.
NIKE, Inc., based near Beaverton, Oregon, is the world's leading designer, marketer and distributor of authentic athletic footwear, apparel, equipment and accessories for a wide variety of sports and fitness activities. Wholly-owned NIKE, Inc. subsidiaries include Converse Inc., which designs, markets and distributes athletic footwear, apparel and accessories and Hurley International LLC, which designs, markets and distributes action sports and youth lifestyle footwear, apparel and accessories. For more information, NIKEs earnings releases and other financial information are available on the Internet at http://investors.nikeinc.com and individuals can follow @Nike.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


