FILE:NKE/NKE-8K-20120927162641.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Today NIKE, Inc. issued a press release disclosing financial results for the fiscal quarter ended August 31, 2012.  The text of the release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished with this Form 8-K:
99.1 Press Release dated September 27, 2012.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NIKE, Inc. (NYSE:NKE) today reported financial results for its fiscal 2013 first quarter ended August 31, 2012. Strong demand for NIKE, Inc. brands propelled first quarter revenue to new record highs. As expected, diluted earnings per share were lower due to lower gross margin, higher SG&A and an increase in the tax rate.
BEAVERTON, Ore., Sept. 27, 2012
We had a strong first quarter and a great start to the fiscal year. NIKE, Inc. delivered an amazing array of innovation across some of the biggest moments in sport, said Mark Parker, President and CEO, NIKE, Inc. Innovation is how great companies sustain growth and build competitive separation, Parker added. Well continue to make strategic investments across our portfolio of businesses to capture our full potential over the long term and drive shareholder value.*
First Quarter Income Statement Review
August 31, 2012 Balance Sheet Review
 
 
Share Repurchases
During the first quarter, NIKE, Inc. repurchased a total of 8.2 million shares for approximately $779 million as part of its four-year, $5 billion share repurchase program, approved by the Board of Directors in September 2008. As of the end of the first quarter, the Company has purchased a total of 58.5 million shares for approximately $4.9 billion under this program.  On September 19, 2012, the Company announced that its Board of Directors approved a new four-year, $8 billion program to repurchase shares of NIKE's Class B Common Stock. During the second quarter of fiscal 2013 the Company's current $5 billion share repurchase program was completed, and the new program commenced.
Futures Orders
As of the end of the quarter worldwide futures orders for NIKE Brand athletic footwear and apparel, scheduled for delivery from September 2012 through January 2013, totaled $8.9 billion, 6 percent higher than orders reported for the same period last year. Excluding currency changes, reported orders would have increased 8 percent.*
Conference Call
NIKE management will host a conference call beginning at approximately 2:00 p.m. PT on September 27, 2012, to review first quarter results. The conference call will be broadcast live over the Internet and can be accessed at http://investors.nikeinc.com. For those unable to listen to the live broadcast, an archived version will be available at the same location through 9:00 p.m. PT, October 4, 2012.
About NIKE, Inc.
NIKE, Inc., based near Beaverton, Oregon, is the world's leading designer, marketer and distributor of authentic athletic footwear, apparel, equipment and accessories for a wide variety of sports and fitness activities. Wholly-owned NIKE, Inc. subsidiaries include Cole Haan, which designs, markets and distributes luxury shoes, handbags, accessories and coats; Converse Inc., which designs, markets and distributes athletic footwear, apparel and accessories; Hurley International LLC, which designs, markets and distributes action sports and youth lifestyle footwear, apparel and accessories; and Umbro International Limited., a leading United Kingdom-based global football (soccer) brand. For more information, NIKEs earnings releases and other financial information are available on the Internet at http://investors.nikeinc.com and individuals can follow @Nike.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


