FILE:NKE/NKE-8K-20120628161902.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Today NIKE, Inc. issued a press release disclosing financial results for the fiscal quarter ended May 31, 2012.  The text of the release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished with this Form 8-K:
99.1 Press Release dated June 28, 2012.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
 
 
 
 
 NIKE, Inc. (NYSE:NKE) today reported financial results for its fiscal 2012 fourth quarter and full year ended May 31, 2012. Fourth quarter revenues rose 12 percent, or 14 percent on a currency neutral basis, to $6.5 billion, the largest revenue quarter in NIKE, Inc.s history. This was a result of higher revenues across every NIKE Brand geography, key category and product type as well as across all Other Businesses. However, diluted EPS for the quarter was down 6 percent as a result of a lower gross margin, higher SG&A spending, an increase in the effective tax rate and a charge related to restructuring NIKE Brand Western Europes operations to better realign resources against growth opportunities and drive efficiencies.
BEAVERTON, Ore., June 28, 2012
Revenues for fiscal 2012 were up 16 percent, or 14 percent excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency, to $24.1 billion. Diluted EPS for the year increased 8 percent to $4.73 as a result of strong revenue growth, leverage of SG&A, and a lower average share count, which more than offset the impact of a lower gross margin and higher effective tax rate.
"Fiscal year 2012 demonstrated NIKE, Inc.'s greatest strength  innovation. We delivered an amazing number of game-changing products and services that drove record revenue growth," said Mark Parker, President and CEO, NIKE, Inc. "We also delivered solid profit growth for the year despite some headwinds in a challenging global economy, which will continue into the next year. That said, NIKE is well positioned and will remain aggressive, flexible and laser-focused on the high-growth opportunities. That's how we continue to deliver long-term profitable growth for our shareholders.*
As part of its long term growth strategy, the Company continually evaluates its existing portfolio of businesses to ensure it is investing in those businesses with the largest growth potential and highest returns. On May 31, 2012, the Company announced its intention to divest the Cole Haan and Umbro businesses, which will allow it to focus its resources on driving growth in the NIKE, Jordan, Converse and Hurley brands. For fiscal 2012, Cole Haan and Umbro together contributed $797 million in revenues and a combined loss before interest and taxes of $43 million. This compares to fiscal 2011 combined revenues of $745 million and a loss before interest and taxes of $18 million.
Fourth Quarter Income Statement Review
Fiscal 2012 Income Statement Review
May 31, 2012 Balance Sheet Review
 
 
Share Repurchases
During the fourth quarter, NIKE, Inc. repurchased a total of 2.3 million shares for approximately $245 million as part of its four-year, $5 billion share repurchase program, approved by the Board of Directors in September 2008. As of the end of the fourth quarter, the Company has purchased a total of 50.3 million shares for approximately $4.1 billion under this program.
About NIKE, Inc.
NIKE, Inc., based near Beaverton, Oregon, is the world's leading designer, marketer and distributor of authentic athletic footwear, apparel, equipment and accessories for a wide variety of sports and fitness activities. Wholly-owned NIKE, Inc. subsidiaries include Cole Haan, which designs, markets and distributes luxury shoes, handbags, accessories and coats; Converse Inc., which designs, markets and distributes athletic footwear, apparel and accessories; Hurley International LLC, which designs, markets and distributes action sports and youth lifestyle footwear, apparel and accessories; and Umbro International Limited., a leading United Kingdom-based global football (soccer) brand. For more information, NIKEs earnings releases and other financial information are available on the Internet at http:// investors.nikeinc.com and individuals can follow @Nike.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


