FILE:NKE/NKE-8K-20120522162306.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 18, 2012, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of NIKE, Inc., an Oregon corporation (the Company), approved the grant of restricted stock units under the Companys 1990 Stock Incentive Plan (the RSUs), to Mark G. Parker, Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company.  The grant consists of 189,682 RSUs.  Each RSU obligates the Company upon vesting of the RSU to issue to the RSU holder one share of NIKE Class B Common Stock plus a cash payment equal to the total amount of dividends paid per share between grant and vesting of the RSU.  One hundred percent of the RSUs are scheduled to vest on May 18, 2017, subject to Mr. Parkers continued employment with the Company through such date.  In addition, the RSUs will become 100% vested upon (i) the earlier death or disability of Mr. Parker, or (ii) if a change in control of the Company occurs and within two years after the change in control, Mr. Parkers employment is terminated by the Company without cause or by him for good reason.  The terms change in control, cause and good reason have the same meanings for purposes of the RSUs as they have in the Companys current form of Non-Statutory Stock Option Agreement.  Shares acquired under the RSUs are subject to the Companys Policy for Recoupment of Incentive Compensation.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


