FILE:NKE/NKE-8K-20120926160324.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02  .
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On June 21, 2012 the Board of Directors of NIKE, Inc. (the Company) approved an amendment, as described below, to the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan (the Plan), subject to the approval by the Company's shareholders of the amendment at the Company's 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on September 20, 2012 (the "2012 Annual Meeting").  The Plan provides that it will terminate at the first shareholder meeting that occurs in the fifth fiscal year after the Company's shareholders last approved the Plan.  Accordingly, shareholder re-approval of the Plan at the 2012 Annual Meeting was required to extend the Plan for an additional five years until the fiscal 2017 annual meeting of shareholders.  The re-approval and amendment were approved by the requisite vote of the Company's shareholders at the 2012 Annual Meetnig and became effective as of September 20, 2012.  
 
 The Plan amendment increased the maximum amount payable to any participant under the Plan for performance periods ending in any year from $4,000,000 to $12,000,000 and made awards under the Plan granted after May 31, 2010 subject to the Company's Policy for recoupment of Incentive Compensation.  A copy of the Plan, as amended, is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto.
   
Item 5.07 
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The Company's annual meeting of shareholders was held on Thursday, September 20, 2012, in Beaverton, Oregon.  The following matters were submitted to a vote of the shareholders, the results of which were as follows:
Proposal 1 -             Election of Directors:
 
 
Directors Elected by holders of Class A Common Stock:
 
 
   
Directors Elected by holders of Class B Common Stock:
 
 
 
 
 
Proposal 2 - Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation
   
 
Class A and Class B Common Stock Voting Together:
 
Proposal 3 -  Approval of Increase in Authorized Common Stock
   
Class A Common Stock :
 
Class B Common Stock :
 
Proposal 4            Re-approve and amendment of the NIKE, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Class A and Class B Common Stock Voting Together:
Proposal 5            Ratify the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal year 2011.
Class A and Class B Common Stock Voting Together:
 
Proposal 6 -  Shareholder Proposal Regarding Political Contributions Disclosure
   
Class A and Class B Common Stock Voting Together:
 
 
Item 9.01  .
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibits
10.1           NIKE, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
This is the Long-Term Incentive Plan of NIKE, Inc. for the payment of incentive compensation to designated employees.
Section 1.
Definitions.
The following terms have the following meanings:
The Board of Directors of the Company.
Board:
The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code:
The Compensation Committee of the Board, provided however, if the Compensation Committee of the Board is not composed entirely of Outside Directors, the Committee shall mean a committee composed entirely of at least two Outside Directors appointed by the Board from time to time.
Committee:
NIKE, Inc.
Company:
The meaning ascribed to this term in Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations proposed or adopted thereunder.
Outside Directors:
The period of time for which Company performance is measured for purposes of a Target Award.
Performance Period:
An objectively determinable level of performance as selected by the Committee to measure performance of the Company or any subsidiary, division, or other unit of the Company for the Performance Period based on one or more of the following: net income, net income before taxes, operating income, revenues, return on sales, return on equity, earnings per share, total shareholder return, or any of the foregoing before the effect of acquisitions, divestitures, accounting changes, restructuring, or other special charges, as determined by the Committee at the time of establishing a Performance Target.
Performance Target:
The Long-Term Incentive Plan of the Company.
Plan:
An amount of compensation to be paid in cash to a Plan participant based on achievement of a particular Performance Target level, as established by the Committee.
Target Award:
The fiscal year of the Company.
Year:
Section 2.
Objectives.
The objectives of the Plan are to:
(a) recognize and reward on a long-term basis selected employees of the Company and its subsidiaries for their contributions to the overall profitability and performance of the Company; and
(b) qualify compensation under the Plan as performance-based compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
Section 3.
Administration.
The Plan will be administered by the Committee. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee will have full authority to interpret the Plan, to establish and amend rules and regulations relating to it, to determine the terms and provisions for making awards and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.
Section 4.
Participation.
Target Awards may be granted under the Plan only to individuals selected by the Committee who are employees of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.
Section 5.
Determination of the Performance Targets and Awards.
(a) The Committee shall establish in writing, in its sole discretion, the Performance Targets and Target Award opportunities for each participant, within 90 days of the beginning of the applicable Performance Period.  The Committee may establish (i) several Performance Target levels for each participant, each corresponding to a different Target Award opportunity, and (ii) different Performance Targets and Target Award opportunities for each participant in the Plan.
Performance Targets and Awards.
(b) The Committee may establish other restrictions to payment under a Target Award, such as a continued employment requirement, in addition to satisfaction of the Performance Targets.
Other Terms and Restrictions.  
(c) The Committee shall not establish Target Award opportunities for any participant such that the maximum amount payable under Target Awards which have Performance Periods ending in any single Year exceeds $12,000,000.
Maximum Awards.  
Section 6.
Determination of Plan Awards.
At the conclusion of the Performance Period, in accordance with Section 162(m)(4)(C)(iii) of the Code, prior to the payment of any award under the Plan, the Committee shall certify in the Committees internal meeting minutes the attainment of the Performance Targets for the Performance Period and the calculation of the awards.  No award shall be paid if the related Performance Target is not met. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, reduce or eliminate any participants calculated award based on circumstances relating to the performance of the Company or the participant.  Awards will be paid in accordance with the terms of the awards as soon as practicable following the Committees certification of the awards.
Section 7.
Termination of Employment.
The terms of a Target Award may provide that in the event of a participants termination of employment for any reason during a Performance Period, the participant (or his or her beneficiary) will receive, at the time provided in Section 6, all or any portion of the award to which the participant would otherwise have been entitled.
Section 8. .
Clawback Policy
Unless otherwise provided at the time of establishing a Target Award, all awards under the Plan shall be subject to the NIKE, Inc. Policy for Recoupment of Incentive Compensation as approved by the Committee and in effect at the time the Target Award is established, or such other policy for clawback of incentive compensation as may be approved from time to time by the Committee.
Section 9.
Miscellaneous.
(a) The Committee with the approval of the Board may amend, modify or terminate the Plan at any time and from time to time except insofar as approval by the Companys shareholders is required pursuant to Section 162(m)(4)(C)(ii) of the Code. The Plan shall terminate at the first shareholder meeting that occurs in the fifth year after the Companys shareholders approve the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no such amendment, modification or termination shall affect the payment of Target Awards previously established.
Amendment and Termination of the Plan.
(b) Except as otherwise required by applicable law, no interest, benefit, payment, claim or right of any participant under the plan shall be subject in any manner to any claims of any creditor of any participant or beneficiary, nor to alienation by anticipation, sale, transfer, assignment, bankruptcy, pledge, attachment, charge or encumbrance of any kind, and any attempt to take any such action shall be null and void.
No Assignment.
(c) Nothing contained in the Plan shall give any person the right to be retained in the employment of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. The Company reserves the right to terminate a participant at any time for any reason notwithstanding the existence of the Plan.
No Rights to Employment.
(d) The Committee shall establish such procedures as it deems necessary for a participant to designate a beneficiary to whom any amounts would be payable in the event of a participants death.
Beneficiary Designation.
(e) The entire cost of the Plan shall be paid from the general assets of the Company. The rights of any person to receive benefits under the Plan shall be only those of a general unsecured creditor, and neither the Company nor the Board nor the Committee shall be responsible for the adequacy of the general assets of the Company to meet and discharge Plan liabilities, nor shall the Company be required to reserve or otherwise set aside funds for the payment of its obligations hereunder.
Plan Unfunded.
     (f) The Plan and all rights thereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Oregon.
Applicable Law.


