FILE:NKE/NKE-8K-20120322161911.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Today NIKE, Inc. issued a press release disclosing financial results for the fiscal quarter ended February 29, 2012.  The text of the release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished with this Form 8-K:
99.1 Press Release dated March 22, 2012.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NIKE, Inc. (NYSE:NKE) today reported financial results for its fiscal 2012 third quarter ended February 29, 2012. Earnings per share for the quarter rose 11 percent as a result of continued strong demand for NIKE, Inc. brands, SG&A expense leverage and a lower average share count, which more than offset the impact of a lower gross margin and a higher effective tax rate.
BEAVERTON, Ore., Mar. 22, 2012
We had a strong third quarter. Our relentless focus on innovation delivered powerful new products and services for athletes and consumers, and continues to drive value to our shareholders, said Mark Parker, President and CEO, NIKE, Inc. The environment remains volatile, but Im optimistic about the future. Were starting a great season of major sports events and we have a pipeline full of innovation to fuel growth over the long term."*
Third Quarter Income Statement Review
February 29, 2012 Balance Sheet Review
 
Share Repurchases
During the third quarter, a total of 2.5 million shares were repurchased for approximately $239 million as part of our four-year, $5 billion share repurchase program, approved by the Board of Directors in September 2008. As of the end of the third quarter, a total of 48.1 million shares were repurchased for approximately $3.9 billion under this program.
Futures Orders
As of the end of the quarter worldwide futures orders for NIKE Brand athletic footwear and apparel, scheduled for delivery from March through July 2012, totaled $9.4 billion, 15 percent higher than orders reported for the same period last year. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates reduced reported futures orders by 3 percentage points.*
Conference Call
NIKE management will host a conference call beginning at approximately 2:00 p.m. PT on March 22, 2012, to review third quarter results. The conference call will be broadcast live over the Internet and can be accessed at http://investors.nikeinc.com. For those unable to listen to the live broadcast, an archived version will be available at the same location through 9:00 p.m. PT, March 29, 2012.
About NIKE, Inc.
NIKE, Inc. based near Beaverton, Oregon, is the world's leading designer, marketer and distributor of authentic athletic footwear, apparel, equipment and accessories for a wide variety of sports and fitness activities. Wholly-owned NIKE subsidiaries include Cole Haan, which designs, markets and distributes luxury shoes, handbags, accessories and coats; Converse Inc., which designs, markets and distributes athletic footwear, apparel and accessories; Hurley International LLC, which designs, markets and distributes action sports and youth lifestyle footwear, apparel and accessories; and Umbro International Limited, which designs, distributes and licenses athletic and casual footwear, apparel and equipment, primarily for global football (soccer). For more information, NIKEs earnings releases and other financial information are available on the Internet at http://investors.nikeinc.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


