FILE:TEL/TEL-8K-20071108174409.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
        Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.02    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Participation in the Tyco Electronics Ltd. Severance Plan for U.S. Officers and Executives
        On July 9, 2007, the Board of Directors of Tyco Electronics Ltd. (the "Board") approved and adopted the Tyco Electronics Ltd. Severance Plan for U.S. Officers and Executives (the "Severance Plan"). Tyco Electronics' Chief Executive Officer, Thomas J. Lynch, and Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Terrence R. Curtin, are subject to the Severance Plan. The following summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms and conditions of the Severance Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated by reference herein. Under the Severance Plan, upon an involuntary termination of employment, other than for cause, disability or death, Tyco Electronics is required to pay to the executives named above the executive's base salary and target bonus for a period of 24 months (for Mr. Lynch) and 18 months (for Mr. Curtin). Payments of the cash severance benefits are made in monthly installments. Also, the executive could be eligible for a pro-rata annual bonus for the year in which his employment terminates, in Tyco Electronics' discretion under the applicable bonus plan. The executive also would receive continuation of health and dental benefits during the severance period at active employee rates and, in Tyco Electronics' discretion, outplacement services for up to 12 months.
        As a condition of receiving the foregoing benefits, the severance plan requires the executive to execute a general release in favor of Tyco Electronics and to agree to covenants providing for the confidentiality of Tyco Electronics' information, one year noncompetition, two years of nonsolicitation of Tyco Electronics' employees and customers and non-disparagement. Benefits may be cancelled or recovered if the executive does not comply with these provisions or violates the release of claims. "Cause" is defined as substantial failure or refusal to perform duties and responsibilities of the executive's job, violation of fiduciary duty, conviction of a felony or misdemeanor, dishonesty, theft, violation of Tyco Electronics' rules or policy or other egregious conduct that has or could have a serious and detrimental impact on Tyco Electronics and its employees.
Participation in the Tyco Electronics Ltd. Change in Control Severance Plan for Certain U.S. Officers and Executives
        On July 9, 2007, the Board approved and adopted the Tyco Electronics Ltd. Change in Control Severance Plan for Certain U.S. Officers and Executives (the "CIC Severance Plan"). Messrs. Lynch and Curtin are subject to the CIC Severance Plan. Under the CIC Severance Plan, upon a change in control termination of employment (which includes an involuntary termination of employment, other than for cause, disability or death, or a good reason resignation of employment) that occurs within 60 days before or two years after a change in control, Tyco Electronics is required to pay a participating executive's base salary and target bonus for a period of 36 months (for Mr. Lynch), or a period of 24 months (for Mr. Curtin). Payments of the cash severance benefits are made in a lump sum. In addition, the executive will receive a pro-rata annual bonus for the year in which his employment terminates pursuant to the terms of the applicable bonus plan. The executive also would receive:
 - 
full vesting of any outstanding stock options and 12 months to exercise vested stock options, unless a longer period is provided in the applicable option agreement;
 - 
full vesting of any unvested restricted stock and restricted stock units which are subject solely to time vesting;
 - 
continuation of health and dental benefits for 36 months (for Mr. Lynch) or for 24 months (for Mr. Curtin) at active employee rates; and
 - 
in Tyco Electronics' discretion, outplacement services for up to 12 months.
        Unvested restricted stock and restricted stock units that are subject to performance-based vesting provisions could become fully vested upon a change in control termination if the CIC Severance Plan administrator determines that the applicable performance vesting requirements have been or will be attained, or would have been attained during the applicable severance period but for the change in control. Cash severance and other benefits payable under the CIC Severance Plan will be limited to the greater after-tax amount resulting from (i) payment of the full benefits provided under the CIC Severance Plan after imposition of all taxes, including any applicable excise taxes under Internal Revenue Code Section 280G, and (ii) payment of the benefits capped at the Internal Revenue Code Section 280G limit with no excise tax imposed. The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms and conditions of the CIC Severance Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.2 hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
Tyco Electronics Corporation Supplemental Savings and Retirement Plan
        Effective June 29, 2007, the Board of Directors of Tyco Electronics Corporation approved and adopted the Tyco Electronics Corporation Supplemental Savings and Retirement Plan (the "Supplemental Savings Plan"). Pursuant to the Supplemental Savings Plan, executive officers may defer up to 50% of their base salary and 100% of their annual bonus. Tyco Electronics provides company contributions based on the executive's deferred base salary and bonus at the same rate such executive is eligible to receive matching contributions under the Tyco Electronics Retirement Savings Investment Plan and on any cash compensation (i.e., base and bonus) the executive earns that year in excess of the Internal Revenue Code Section 401(a)(17) limit ($225,000 in 2007). The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms and conditions of the Supplemental Savings Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.3 hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits
        (d)    Exhibits
        The following exhibits are filed as part of this report:
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 8, 2007
QuickLinks
SIGNATURE

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
.  The purpose of the Plan is to provide Eligible Employees with certain compensation and benefits as set forth in the Plan in the event the Eligible Employee's employment with the Company or a Subsidiary is terminated due to an Involuntary Termination.  The Plan is not intended to be an "employee pension benefit plan" or "pension plan" within the meaning of Section 3(2) of ERISA.  Rather, this Plan is intended to be a "welfare benefit plan" within the meaning of Section 3(1) of ERISA and to meet the descriptive requirements of a plan constituting a "severance pay plan" within the meaning of regulations published by the Secretary of Labor at Title 29, , section 2510.3-2(b).  Accordingly, the benefits paid by the Plan are not deferred compensation and no employee shall have a vested right to such benefits.
Section 1.01        
Purpose of the Plan
Code of Federal Regulations
 
.  The Plan shall generally be effective as of the Effective Date and shall supersede any prior plan, program or policy under which the Company or any Subsidiary provided severance benefits prior to the Effective Date of the Plan.  The Plan shall continue until terminated pursuant to Article VIII of the Plan.
Section 1.02        
Term of the Plan
 
"" shall mean a position with the Company that:
Section 2.01        
Alternative Position
 
(a)           is not more than 75 miles each way from the location of the Employee's current position (for positions that are essentially mobile, the mileage does not apply); and
 
(b)           provides the Employee with pay and benefits (not including perquisites or long term incentive compensation) that are comparable in the aggregate to the Employee's current position.
 
The Plan Administrator has the exclusive discretionary authority to determine whether a position is an Alternative Position.
 
"" shall mean 100% of the Participant's target annual bonus.
Section 2.02        
Annual Bonus
 
"" shall mean the annual base salary in effect as of the Participant's Termination Date.
Section 2.03        
Base Salary
 
"" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company or any successor thereto, or a committee thereof specifically designated for purposes of making determinations hereunder.
Section 2.04        
Board
 
"" shall mean an Employee's (i) substantial failure or refusal to perform duties and responsibilities of his or her job as required by the Company, (ii) violation of any fiduciary duty owed to the Company, (iii) conviction of a felony or misdemeanor, (iv) dishonesty, (v) theft, (vi) violation of Company rules or policy, or (vii) other egregious conduct, that has or could have a serious and detrimental impact on the Company and its employees.  The Plan Administrator, in its sole and absolute discretion, shall determine Cause.  Examples of "Cause" may include, but are not limited to, excessive absenteeism, misconduct, insubordination, violation of Company policy, dishonesty, and deliberate unsatisfactory performance (e.g., Employee refuses to improve deficient performance).
Section 2.05        
Cause
 
"" shall mean the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended.
Section 2.06        
COBRA
 
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Section 2.07        
Code
 
"" shall mean the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board or such other committee appointed by the Board to assist the Company in making determinations required under the Plan in accordance with its terms.  The "Committee" may delegate its authority under the Plan to an individual or another committee.
Section 2.08        
Committee
 
"" shall mean Tyco Electronics Ltd.  Unless it is otherwise clear from the context, Company shall generally include participating Subsidiaries.
Section 2.09        
Company
"" shall mean July 1, 2007.
Section 2.10        
Effective Date
 
"" shall mean an Employee employed in the United States who is an Officer, or in career bands 1 and 2, who is not covered under any other severance plan or program sponsored by the Company or a Subsidiary.  If there is any question as to whether an Employee is deemed an Eligible Employee for purposes of the Plan, the Senior Vice President  Human Resources, Tyco Electronics shall make the determination.
Section 2.11        
Eligible Employee
 
"" shall mean an individual employed by Tyco Electronics Ltd. or a Subsidiary as a common law employee on the United States payroll of Tyco Electronics Ltd. or a Subsidiary, and shall not include any person working for the Company through a temporary service or on a leased basis or who is hired by the Company as an independent contractor, consultant, or otherwise as a person who is not an employee for purposes of withholding federal employment taxes, as evidenced by payroll records or a written agreement with the individual, regardless of any contrary governmental or judicial determination or holding relating to such status or tax withholding.
Section 2.12        
Employee
 
"" shall mean the Company or any Subsidiary with respect to which this Plan has been adopted.
Section 2.13        
Employer
 
"" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and regulations thereunder.
Section 2.14        
ERISA
 
"" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Section 2.15        
Exchange Act
 
"" shall mean a termination of the Participant initiated by the Company or a Subsidiary for any reason other than Cause, Permanent Disability or death, as provided under and subject to the conditions of Article III.
Section 2.16        
Involuntary Termination
 
"" shall mean the amounts that a Participant is eligible to receive pursuant to Article IV of the Plan.
Section 2.17        
Notice Pay
 
"" shall mean any individual who is an officer, as such term is defined pursuant to Rule 16a-1(f) as promulgated under the Exchange Act, of the Company.  For purposes of this definition, Officer shall also mean any officer of any of the Company's Subsidiaries who perform policy making functions, within the context of Rule 16a-1(f).
Section 2.18        
Officer
 
"" shall mean any Eligible Employee who meets the requirements of Article III and thereby becomes eligible for salary continuation and other benefits under the Plan.
Section 2.19        
Participant
 
"" shall mean that an Employee has a permanent and total incapacity from engaging in any employment for the Employer for physical or mental reasons.  A "Permanent Disability" shall be deemed to exist if the Employee meets the requirements for disability benefits under the Employer's long-term disability plan or under the requirements for disability benefits under the Social Security law (or similar law outside the United States, if the Employee is employed in that jurisdiction) then in effect, or if the Employee is designated with an inactive employment status at the end of a disability or medical leave.
Section 2.20        
Permanent Disability
"" means the Tyco Electronics Severance Plan for U.S. Officers and Executives as set forth herein, and as the same may from time to time be amended.
Section 2.21        
Plan
 
"" shall mean the individual(s) appointed by the Committee to administer the terms of the Plan as set forth herein and if no individual is appointed by the Committee to serve as the Plan Administrator for the Plan, the Plan Administrator shall be the Senior Vice President  Human Resources, Tyco Electronics Ltd. (or the equivalent).  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, in the event the Plan Administrator is entitled to Severance Benefits under the Plan, the Committee or its delegate shall act as the Plan Administrator for purposes of administering the terms of the Plan with respect to the Plan Administrator.  The Plan Administrator may delegate all or any portion of its authority under the Plan to any other person(s).
Section 2.22        
Plan Administrator
 
"" shall mean the Separation of Employment Agreement and General Release, as provided by the Company.
Section 2.23        
Release
 
"" shall mean the total number of years and completed months the Participant was an Employee of the Company.  Service with any predecessor employer or with a Subsidiary prior to the Subsidiary's becoming part of the Company shall be recognized only to the extent specified in the merger or acquisition documentation relating to the Subsidiary.  Periods of authorized leave of absence, such as military leave, will be included in Service only to the extent required by applicable law.  Any period of employment with the Company, a Subsidiary, or a predecessor employer for which an Eligible Employee previously received severance benefits, shall be excluded from Service.
Section 2.24        
Service
 
"" shall mean the salary continuation amounts and other benefits that a Participant is eligible to receive pursuant to Article IV of the Plan.
Section 2.25        
Severance Benefit
 
"" shall mean the period during which a Participant is receiving Severance Benefits under this Plan.
Section 2.26        
Severance Period
 
"" shall mean (i) a subsidiary company (wherever incorporated) as defined by section 86 of the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda (as amended), (ii) any separately organized business unit, whether or not incorporated, of the Company, and (iii) any employer that is required to be aggregated with the Company pursuant to section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and regulations issued thereunder.
Section 2.27        
Subsidiary
 
"" shall mean the date on which the active employment of the Participant by the Company or a Subsidiary is severed by reason of an Involuntary Termination.
Section 2.28        
Termination Date
 
"" shall mean any retirement or termination of employment that is not initiated by the Company or any Subsidiary.
Section 2.29        
Voluntary Termination
 
.  Each Eligible Employee in the Plan who incurs an Involuntary Termination and who satisfies the conditions of Section 3.02 shall be eligible to receive the Severance Benefits described in the Plan.  An Eligible Employee shall not be eligible to receive any other severance benefits from the Company or Subsidiary on account of an Involuntary Termination, unless otherwise provided in the Plan.  In addition, any Eligible Employee who is a party to an employment agreement with the Company pursuant to which such Eligible Employee is entitled to severance benefits shall be ineligible to participate in the Plan.
Section 3.01        
Participation
 
.
Section 3.02        
Conditions
 
(a)           Eligibility for any Severance Benefits is expressly conditioned on (i) execution by the Participant of a Release in the form provided by the Company; (ii) compliance by the Participant with all the terms and conditions of such Release; (iii) the Participant's written agreement to the confidentiality, non-solicitation, and non-disparagement provisions in Article VI during and after the Participant's employment with the Company; and (iv) execution of a written agreement that authorizes the deduction of amounts owed to the Company prior to the payment of any Severance Benefit (or in accordance with any other schedule as the Committee may, in its sole discretion, determine to be appropriate).  If the Committee determines, in its sole discretion, that the Participant has not fully complied with any of the terms of the Agreement and/or Release, the Committee may deny Severance Benefits not yet in pay status or discontinue the payment of the Participant's Severance Benefit and may require the Participant, by providing written notice of such repayment obligation to the Participant, to repay any portion of the Severance Benefit already received under the Plan.  If the Committee notifies a Participant that repayment of all or any portion of the Severance Benefit received under the Plan is required, such amounts shall be repaid within thirty (30) calendar days of the date the written notice is sent.  Any remedy under this subsection (a) shall be in addition to, and not in place of, any other remedy, including injunctive relief, that the Company may have.
 
(b)           An Eligible Employee will not be eligible to receive severance benefits under any of the following circumstances: 
 
(i)            The Eligible Employee voluntarily terminates employment: 
 
(ii)           The Eligible Employee resigns employment before the job-end date specified by the Employer or while the Employer still desires the Eligible Employee's services; 
 
(iii)          The Eligible Employee's employment is terminated for Cause; 
 
(iv)          The Eligible Employee voluntarily retires; 
(v)           The Eligible Employee's employment is terminated due to the Eligible Employee's death or Permanent Disability; 
(vi)          The Eligible Employee does not return to work within six (6) months of the onset of an approved leave of absence, other than a personal, educational or military leave and/or as otherwise required by applicable statute;
 
(vii)         The Eligible Employee does not return to work within three (3) months of the onset of a personal or educational leave of absence; 
 
(viii)        The Eligible Employee continues in employment with the Company or a Subsidiary or has the opportunity to continue in employment in the same or in an Alternative Position with the Company or a Subsidiary; or
 
(ix)           The Eligible Employee's employment with the Employer terminates as a result of a sale of stock or assets of the Employer, merger, consolidation, joint venture or a sale or outsourcing of a business unit or function, or other transaction, and the Eligible Employee accepts employment, or has the opportunity to continue employment in an Alternative Position, with the purchaser, joint venture, or other acquiring or outsourcing entity, or a related entity of either the Company or the acquiring entity.  The payment of Severance Benefits in the circumstances described in this subsection (ix) would result in a windfall to the Eligible Employee, which is not the intention of the Plan.
 
(c)           The Plan Administrator has the sole discretion to determine an Eligible Employee's eligibility to receive Severance Benefits. 
 
(d)           An Eligible Employee returning from approved military leave will be eligible for Severance Benefits if: (i) he/she is eligible for reemployment under the provisions of the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA); (ii) his/her pre-military leave job is eliminated; and (iii) the Employer's circumstances are changed so as to make reemployment in another position impossible or unreasonable, or re-employment would create an undue hardship for the Employer.  If the Eligible Employee returning from military leave qualifies for Severance Benefits, his/her severance benefits will be calculated as if he/she had remained continuously employed from the date he/she began his/her military leave.  The Eligible Employee must also satisfy any other relevant conditions for payment, including execution of a Release.
 
. Except as otherwise provided in Section 4.05,the Severance Benefits to be provided to an Eligible Employee who incurs an Involuntary Termination and is determined to be eligible for Severance Benefits shall be as follows:
Section 4.01        
Amount of Severance Benefits Upon Involuntary Termination
 
(a)           .  Except for Officers, each Eligible Employee who meets the eligibility requirements for a Severance Benefit under Section 3.01 shall receive 30 calendar days notice as a Notice Period.  In the event that the Company determines that a Participant's last day of work shall be prior to the end of his or her Notice Period, such Employee shall be entitled to pay in lieu of notice for the balance of such Notice Period.  Notice Pay paid to an Eligible Employee shall be in addition to, and not offset against, the Severance Benefits the Participant may be entitled to receive under this Article IV.  An Eligible Employee who does not sign, or who revokes his or her signature on, a Release shall only be eligible for Notice Pay.  Unless otherwise permitted by the applicable plan documents or laws, an Eligible Employee will not be eligible to apply for short-term disability, long-term disability and/or workers' compensation during the Notice Period, or anytime thereafter.
Notice Pay
 
(b)           .  Salary Continuation shall be provided during the Severance Period applicable to the Participant as set forth under the benefits schedule appended to the Plan.  During the Severance Period, the Participant shall receive his or her Base Salary (net of deductions and tax withholdings, as applicable) in equal installments over the Severance Period, per normal payroll cycles.  The salary continuation payment shall commence no earlier than the end of the revocation period applicable to the Release.
Salary Continuation Benefits
 
(c)           .
Bonus
 
(i)            Participant may be eligible for a cash payment equal to his or her pro rated annual bonus for the year in which Participant's Termination Date occurs, subject to the discretion of the Company and pursuant to the terms set forth in the applicable incentive plans.
 
(ii)           The Participant shall also receive a cash payment equal to his or her Annual Bonus during the Severance Period applicable to the Participant as set forth under the benefits schedule appended to the Plan.  Such bonus payment shall be paid to the Participant in equal installments over the Severance Period (, 12 month, 18 months or 24 months).  The bonus payment shall be paid at the same time as the Salary Continuation Benefits.
e.g.
 
(d)           .  The Participant shall continue to be eligible to participate in the medical, dental and Health Care Reimbursement Account coverage in effect at the date of his or her termination (or generally comparable coverage) for himself or herself and, where applicable, his or her spouse and dependents, as the same may be changed from time to time for employees of the Company generally, as if Participant had continued in employment during the Severance Period (the "COBRA Continuation Coverage Period").  The Participant shall be responsible for the payment
Medical, Dental and Health Care Reimbursement Account Benefits
of the employee portion of the medical, dental and Health Care Reimbursement Account contributions that are required during the Severance Period and such contributions shall be made within the time period and in the amounts that other employees are required to pay to the Company for similar coverage.  The Participant's failure to pay the applicable contributions shall result in the cessation of the applicable medical and dental coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse or domestic partner and dependents.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, in the event that a Participant commences employment with another company at any time during the Severance Period, the Participant may cease receiving coverage under the Company's medical and dental plans.  Within thirty (30) days of Participant's commencement of employment with another company, Participant shall provide the Company written notice of such employment and provide information to the Company regarding the medical and dental benefits provided to Participant by his or her new employer.  The COBRA Continuation Coverage Period under section 4980B of the Code shall run concurrently with the Severance Period.
 
(e)           .  The treatment of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other outstanding equity awards will be governed by the applicable equity award agreements and plan documents.
Equity Awards
 
(f)            .  The Company may, in its sole and absolute discretion, pay the cost of outplacement services for the Participant at the outplacement agency that the Company regularly uses for such purpose; , that the period of outplacement shall not exceed twelve (12) months from Participant's Termination Date.  The Company shall pay the cost of outplacement services for the Participant for a period of up to twelve (12) months from Participant's Termination Date at either (i) the outplacement agency that the Company regularly uses for such purpose, or (ii) provided the Senior Vice President  Human Resources provides prior approval, at an outplacement agency selected by the Participant.
Outplacement Services
provided, however
 
(g)           In the event that provision of any of the benefits in (d) above, would adversely affect the tax status of the applicable plan or benefits, the Company, in its sole discretion, may elect to pay to the Participant cash in lieu of such coverage in an amount equal to the Company's premium or average cost of providing such coverage.
.  If the Eligible Employee's employment terminates on account of (i) the Eligible Employee's Voluntary Resignation, (ii) death, or (iii) Permanent Disability, then the Eligible Employee shall not be entitled to receive Severance Benefits under this Plan and shall be entitled only to those benefits (if any) as may be available under the Company's then-existing benefit plans and policies at the time of such termination.
Section 4.02        
Voluntary Termination; Termination for Death or Permanent Disability
 
.  If any Eligible Employee's employment terminates on account of termination by the Company for Cause, the Eligible Employee shall not be entitled to receive Severance Benefits under this Plan and shall be entitled only to those benefits that are legally required to be provided to the Eligible Employee.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, if the Committee or the Plan Administrator determines that an Eligible Employee has engaged in conduct that constitutes Cause at any time prior to the Eligible Employee's Termination Date, any Severance Benefit payable to the Eligible Employee under Section 4.01 of the Plan shall immediately cease, and the Eligible Employee shall be required to return any Severance Benefits paid to the Eligible Employee prior to such determination.  The Company may withhold paying Severance Benefits under the Plan pending resolution of an inquiry that could lead to a finding resulting in Cause.  If the Company has offset other payments owed to the Eligible Employee under any other plan or program, it may, in its sole discretion, waive its repayment right solely with respect to the amount of the offset so credited.
Section 4.03        
Termination for Cause
 
.  The Plan Administrator reserves the right to make deductions in accordance with applicable law for any monies owed to the Company by the Participant or the value of Company property that the Participant has retained in his/her possession.
Section 4.04        
Reduction of Severance Benefits
 
.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Senior Vice President, Human Resources (or her/his successor) shall have the discretion to modify the benefits otherwise available to a Plan Participant under Section 4.01 or the timing of such benefits as she/he deems appropriate, provided that in no event may the exercise of such discretion result in an increase in the benefits that would otherwise have been payable to the Participant under Section 4.01.
Section 4.05        
Modification of Severance Benefits
 
.  The Severance Benefit to which a Participant is entitled, as determined pursuant to Section 4.01, shall be paid in accordance with normal payroll practices over the Severance Period or from a supplemental unemployment benefits trust.  In no event will interest be credited on the unpaid balance for which a Participant may become eligible.  Payment shall be made by mailing to the last address provided by the Participant to the Company or such other reasonable method as determined by the Plan Administrator.  In general, the initial payments shall be made as promptly as practicable after the Participant's Termination Date, the execution of the Release required under Section 3.02, and the expiration of the required revocation period specified in the Release.  All payments of Severance Benefits are subject to applicable federal, state and local taxes and withholdings.  In the event of the Participant's death prior to the completion of all payments being made, the remaining payments shall be paid to the Participant's estate.
Section 5.01        
Method of Payment
 
.  The Severance Benefits under this Plan are not additive or cumulative to severance or termination benefits that a Participant might also be entitled to receive under the terms of a written employment agreement, a severance agreement or any other arrangement with the Employer.  As a condition of participating in the Plan, the Eligible Employee must expressly agree that this Plan supersedes all prior agreements, and sets forth the entire Severance Benefit the Eligible Employee is entitled to while an Eligible Employee in the Plan.  The provisions of this Plan may provide for payments to the Eligible Employee under certain compensation or bonus plans under circumstances where such plans would not provide for payment thereof.  It is the specific intention of the Company that the provisions of this Plan shall supersede any provisions to the contrary in such plans, to the extent permitted by applicable law, and such plans shall be deemed to be have been amended to correspond with this Plan without further action by the Company or the Board.
Section 5.02        
Other Arrangements
 
. 
Section 5.03        
Termination of Eligibility for Benefits
 
(a)           All Eligible Employees shall cease to be eligible to participate in the Plan, and all Severance Benefit payments shall cease upon the occurrence of the earlier of:
 
(i)            Subject to Article VIII, termination or modification of the Plan; or
 
(ii)           Completion of payment to the Participant of the Severance Benefit for which the Participant is eligible under Article IV.
 
(b)           Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Company shall have the right to cease all Severance Benefit payments and to recover payments previously made to the Participant should the Participant at any time breach the Participant's undertakings under the terms of the Plan, the Release the Participant executed to obtain the Severance Benefits under the Plan or the confidentiality, non-competition, non-solicitation and non-disparagement provisions of Article VI.
 
.  The Eligible Employee agrees that he or she shall not, directly or indirectly, use, make available, sell, disclose or otherwise communicate to any person, other than in the course of the Eligible Employee's assigned duties and for the benefit of the Company, either during the period of the Eligible Employee's employment or at any time thereafter, any nonpublic, proprietary or confidential information, knowledge or data relating to the Company, any of its Subsidiaries, affiliated companies or businesses, which shall have been obtained by the Eligible Employee during the Eligible Employee's employment by the Company or a Subsidiary.  The foregoing shall not apply to information that (i) was known to the public prior to its disclosure to the Eligible Employee; (ii) becomes known to the public subsequent to disclosure to the Eligible Employee through no wrongful act of the Eligible Employee or any representative of the Eligible Employee; or (iii) the Eligible Employee is required to disclose by applicable law, regulation or legal process (provided that the Eligible Employee provides the Company with prior notice of the contemplated disclosure and reasonably cooperates with the Company at its expense in seeking a protective order or other appropriate protection of such information).  Notwithstanding clauses (i) and (ii) of the preceding sentence, the Eligible Employee's obligation to maintain such disclosed information in confidence shall not terminate where only portions of the information are in the public domain.
Section 6.01        
Confidential
Information
 
.  The Participant acknowledges that he or she performs services of a unique nature for the Company that are irreplaceable, and that his or her performance of such services for a competing business will result in irreparable harm to the Company.  Accordingly, during the Participant's employment with the Company or Subsidiary and for the one (1) year period thereafter, the Participant agrees that the Participant will not, directly or indirectly, own, manage, operate, control, be employed by (whether as an employee, consultant, independent contractor or otherwise, and whether or not for compensation) or render services to any person, firm, corporation or other entity, in whatever form, engaged in any business of the same type as any business in which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or affiliates is engaged on the date of termination or in which they have proposed, on or prior to such date, to be engaged in on or after such date and in which the Participant has been involved to any extent (other than de minimis) at any time during the one (1) year period ending with the date of termination, in any locale of any country in which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries conducts business.  This Section 6.02 shall not prevent the Participant from owning not more than one percent of the total shares of all classes of stock outstanding of any publicly held entity engaged in such business, nor will it restrict the Participant from rendering services to charitable organizations, as such term is defined in section 501(c) of the Code.
Section 6.02        
Non-Competition
 
.  During the Eligible Employee's employment with the Company or a Subsidiary and for the two (2) year period thereafter, the Eligible Employee agrees that he or she will not, directly or indirectly, individually or on behalf of any other person, firm, corporation or other entity, knowingly solicit, aid or induce (i) any employee of the Company or any Subsidiary, as defined by the Company, to leave such employment in order to accept employment with or render services to or with any other person, firm, corporation or other entity unaffiliated with the Company or knowingly take any action to materially assist or aid any other person, firm, corporation or other entity in identifying or hiring any such employee, or (ii)
Section 6.03        
Non-Solicitation
any customer of the Company or any Subsidiary to purchase goods or services then sold by the Company or any Subsidiary from another person, firm, corporation or other entity or assist or aid any other persons or entity in identifying or soliciting any such customer.
 
.  Each of the Eligible Employee and the Company (for purposes hereof, the Company shall mean only the executive officers and directors thereof and not any other employees) agrees not to make any statements that disparage the other party, or in the case of the Company or its Subsidiaries, their respective affiliates, employees, officers, directors, products or services.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, statements made in the course of sworn testimony in administrative, judicial or arbitral proceedings (including, without limitation, depositions in connection with such proceedings) shall not be subject to this Section 6.04.
Section 6.04        
Non-Disparagement
 
.  In the event the provisions of this Article VI shall ever be deemed to exceed the time, scope or geographic limitations permitted by applicable laws, then such provisions shall be reformed to the maximum time, scope or geographic limitations, as the case may be, permitted by applicable laws.
Section 6.05        
Reasonableness
 
.
Section 6.06        
Equitable Relief
 
(a)           By participating in the Plan, the Eligible Employee acknowledges that the restrictions contained in this Article VI are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company, its Subsidiaries and its affiliates, that the Company would not have established this Plan in the absence of such restrictions, and that any violation of any provision of this Article will result in irreparable injury to the Company.  By agreeing to participate in the Plan, the Eligible Employee represents that his or her experience and capabilities are such that the restrictions contained in this Article VI will not prevent the Eligible Employee from obtaining employment or otherwise earning a living at the same general level of economic benefit as is currently the case.  The Eligible Employee further represents and acknowledges that (i) he or she has been advised by the Company to consult his or her own legal counsel in respect of this Plan, and (ii) that he or she has had full opportunity, prior to agreeing to participate in this Plan, to review thoroughly this Plan with his or her counsel.
 
(b)           The Eligible Employee agrees that the Company shall be entitled to preliminary and permanent injunctive relief, without the necessity of proving actual damages, as well as an equitable accounting of all earnings, profits and other benefits arising from any violation of this Article VI, which rights shall be cumulative and in addition to any other rights or remedies to which the Company may be entitled.  In the event that any of the provisions of this Article VI should ever be adjudicated to exceed the time, geographic, service, or other limitations permitted by applicable law in any jurisdiction, then such provisions shall be deemed reformed in such jurisdiction to the maximum time, geographic, service, or other limitations permitted by applicable law.
 
(c)           The Eligible Employee irrevocably and unconditionally (i) agrees that any suit, action or other legal proceeding arising out of this Article VI, including without limitation, any action commenced by the Company for preliminary and permanent injunctive relief or other equitable relief, may be brought in the United States District Court for the District of New York, or if such court does not have jurisdiction or will not accept jurisdiction, in any court of general jurisdiction in New York, (ii) consents to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of any such court in any
such suit, action or proceeding, and (iii) waives any objection which Participant may have to the laying of venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any such court.  Participant also irrevocably and unconditionally consents to the service of any process, pleadings, notices or other papers in a manner permitted by the notice provisions of Section 11.02.
 
.  The obligations contained in this Article VI shall survive the termination of Eligible Employee's employment with the Company or a Subsidiary and shall be fully enforceable thereafter.
Section 6.07        
Survival of Provisions
 
.  It shall be the duty of the Plan Administrator, on the basis of information supplied to it by the Company and the Committee, to properly administer the Plan.  The Plan Administrator shall have the full power, authority and discretion to construe, interpret and administer the Plan, to make factual determinations, to correct deficiencies therein, and to supply omissions.  All decisions, actions and interpretations of the Plan Administrator shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the parties, subject only to determinations by the Named Appeals Fiduciary (as defined in Section 10.04), with respect to denied claims for Severance Benefits.  The Plan Administrator may adopt such rules and regulations and may make such decisions as it deems necessary or desirable for the proper administration of the Plan.
Section 7.01        
Authority and Duties
 
.  The Plan Administrator shall receive no compensation for services as such.  However, all reasonable expenses of the Plan Administrator shall be paid or reimbursed by the Company upon proper documentation.  The Plan Administrator shall be indemnified by the Company against personal liability for actions taken in good faith in the discharge of the Plan Administrator's duties.
Section 7.02        
Compensation of the Plan Administrator
 
.  The Plan Administrator shall keep a copy of all records relating to the payment of Severance Benefits to Participants and former Participants and all other records necessary for the proper operation of the Plan.  All Plan records shall be made available to the Committee, the Company and to each Participant for examination during business hours except that a Participant shall examine only such records as pertain exclusively to the examining Participant and to the Plan.  The Plan Administrator shall prepare and shall file as required by law or regulation all reports, forms, documents and other items required by ERISA, the Code, and every other relevant statute, each as amended, and all regulations thereunder (except that the Company, as payor of the Severance Benefits, shall prepare and distribute to the proper recipients all forms relating to withholding of income or wage taxes, Social Security taxes, and other amounts that may be similarly reportable).
Section 7.03        
Records, Reporting and Disclosure
 
.  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 8.01, the Board or its delegee shall have the right, at any time and from time to time, to amend, suspend or terminate the Plan in whole or in part, for any reason or without reason, and without either the consent of or the prior notification to any Participant, by a formal written action.  No such amendment shall give the Company the right to recover any amount paid to a Participant prior to the date of such amendment or to cause the cessation of Severance Benefits already approved for a Participant who has executed a Release as required under Section 3.02. 
Section 8.01        
Amendment, Suspension and Termination
 
.  Unless terminated sooner by the Board or its delegee, the Plan shall continue in full force and effect until termination of the Plan pursuant to Section 8.01; provided, however, that after the termination of the Plan, if any Participants terminated employment on account of an Involuntary Termination prior to the termination of the Plan and are still receiving Severance Benefits under the Plan, the Plan shall remain in effect until all of the obligations of the Company are satisfied with respect to such Participants.
Section 8.02        
Duration
 
.  The Company or a Subsidiary thereof shall supply to the Committee all records and information necessary to the performance of the Committee's duties.
Section 9.01        
Records
 
. Payments of Severance Benefits to Participants shall be made in such amount as determined by the Committee under Article IV, from the Company's general assets or from a supplemental unemployment benefits trust, in accordance with the terms of the Plan, as directed by the Committee.
Section 9.02        
Payment
 
.  Any decisions, actions or interpretations to be made under the Plan by the Board, the Committee and the Plan Administrator, acting on behalf of either, shall be made in each of their respective sole discretion, not in any fiduciary capacity and need not be uniformly applied to similarly situated individuals and such decisions, actions or interpretations shall be final, binding and conclusive upon all parties.  As a condition of participating in the Plan, the Eligible Employee acknowledges that all decisions and determinations of the Board, the Committee and the Plan Administrator shall be final and binding on the Eligible Employee, his or her beneficiaries and any other person having or claiming an interest under the Plan on his or her behalf.
Section 9.03        
Discretion
 
.  Each Participant under this Plan may contest only the administration of the Severance Benefits awarded by completing and filing with the Plan Administrator a written request for review in the manner specified by the Plan Administrator.  No appeal is permissible as to a Participant's eligibility for or amount of the Severance Benefit, which are decisions made solely within the discretion of the Company, and the Committee acting on behalf of the Company.  No person may bring an action for any alleged wrongful denial of Plan benefits in a court of law unless the claims procedures described in this Article X are exhausted and a final determination is made by the Plan Administrator and/or the Named Appeals Fiduciary.  If the terminated Participant or interested person challenges a decision by the Plan Administrator and/or Named Appeals Fiduciary, a review by the court of law will be limited to the facts, evidence and issues presented to the Plan Administrator during the claims procedure set forth in this Article X.  Facts and evidence that become known to the terminated Participant or other interested person after having exhausted the claims procedure must be brought to the attention of the Plan Administrator for reconsideration of the claims administrator.  Issues not raised with the Plan Administrator and/or Named Appeals Fiduciary will be deemed waived.
Section 10.01      
Claim
 
.  Before the date on which payment of a Severance Benefit commences, each such application must be supported by such information as the Plan Administrator deems relevant and appropriate.  In the event that any claim relating to the administration of Severance Benefits is denied in whole or in part, the terminated Participant or his or her beneficiary ("claimant") whose claim has been so denied shall be notified of such denial in writing by the Plan Administrator within ninety (90) days after the receipt of the claim for benefits.  This period may be extended an additional ninety (90) days if the Plan Administrator determines such extension is necessary and the Plan Administrator provides notice of extension to the claimant prior to the end of the initial ninety (90) day period.  The notice advising of the denial shall specify the following: (i) the reason or reasons for denial, (ii) make specific reference to the Plan provisions on which the determination was based, (iii) describe any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim (explaining why such material or information is needed), and (iv) describe the Plan's review procedures and the time limits applicable to such procedures, including a statement of the claimant's right to bring a civil action under section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse benefit determination on review.
Section 10.02      
Initial Claim
 
.  All appeals shall be made by the following procedure:
Section 10.03      
Appeals of Denied Administrative Claims
 
(a)           A claimant whose claim has been denied shall file with the Plan Administrator a notice of appeal of the denial.  Such notice shall be filed within sixty (60) calendar days of notification by the Plan Administrator of the denial of a claim, shall be made in writing, and shall set forth all of the facts upon which the appeal is based.  Appeals not timely filed shall be barred.
 
(b)           The Named Appeals Fiduciary shall consider the merits of the claimant's written presentations, the merits of any facts or evidence in support of the denial of benefits, and such other facts and circumstances as the Named Appeals Fiduciary shall deem relevant.
(c)           The Named Appeals Fiduciary shall render a determination upon the appealed claim which determination shall be accompanied by a written statement as to the reasons therefor.  The determination shall be made to the claimant within sixty (60) days of the claimant's request for review, unless the Names Appeals Fiduciary determines that special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim.  In such case, the Named Appeals Fiduciary shall notify the claimant of the need for an extension of time to render its decision prior to the end of the initial sixty (60) day period, and the Named Appeals Fiduciary shall have an additional sixty (60) day period to make its determination.  The determination so rendered shall be binding upon all parties.  If the determination is adverse to the claimant, the notice shall provide (i) the reason or reasons for denial, (ii) make specific reference to the Plan provisions on which the determination was based, (iii) a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to a the claimant's claim for benefits, and (iv) state that the claimant has the right to bring an action under section 502(a) of ERISA.
 
.  The Named Appeals Fiduciary shall be the person or persons named as such by the Board or Committee, or, if no such person or persons be named, then the person or persons named by the Plan Administrator as the Named Appeals Fiduciary.  Named Appeals Fiduciaries may at any time be removed by the Board or Committee, and any Named Appeals Fiduciary named by the Plan Administrator may be removed by the Plan Administrator.  All such removals may be with or without cause and shall be effective on the date stated in the notice of removal.  The Named Appeals Fiduciary shall be a "Named Fiduciary" within the meaning of ERISA, and unless appointed to other fiduciary responsibilities, shall have no authority, responsibility, or liability with respect to any matter other than the proper discharge of the functions of the Named Appeals Fiduciary as set forth herein.
Section 10.04      
Appointment of the Named Appeals Fiduciary
 
.  In the event of any dispute under the provisions of this Plan, other than a dispute in which the primary relief sought is an equitable remedy such as an injunction, the parties shall have the dispute, controversy or claim settled by arbitration in New York, New York (or such other location as may be mutually agreed upon by the Employer and the Participant) in accordance with the National Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes then in effect of the American Arbitration Association, before a panel of three arbitrators, two of whom shall be selected by the Company and the Participant, respectively, and the third of whom shall be selected by the other two arbitrators.  Any award entered by the arbitrators shall be final, binding and nonappealable and judgment may be entered thereon by either party in accordance with applicable law in any court of competent jurisdiction.  This arbitration provision shall be specifically enforceable.  The arbitrators shall have no authority to modify any provision of this Plan or to award a remedy for a dispute involving this Plan other than a benefit specifically provided under or by virtue of the Plan.  If the Participant substantially prevails on any material issue, which is the subject of such arbitration or lawsuit, the Company shall be responsible for all of the fees of the American Arbitration Association and the arbitrators and any expenses relating to the conduct of the arbitration (including the Company's and Participant's reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses).  Otherwise, each party shall be responsible for its own expenses relating to the conduct of the arbitration (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) and shall share the fees of the American Arbitration Association.
Section 10.05      
Arbitration; Expenses
 
.  None of the payments, benefits or rights of any Participant shall be subject to any claim of any creditor of any Participant, and, in particular, to the fullest extent permitted by law, all such payments, benefits and rights shall be free from attachment, garnishment (if permitted under applicable law), trustee's process, or any other legal or equitable process available to any creditor of such Participant.  No Participant shall have the right to alienate, anticipate, commute, plead, encumber or assign any of the benefits or payments that he may expect to receive, continently or otherwise, under this Plan, except for the designation of a beneficiary as set forth in Section 5.01.
Section 11.01      
Nonalienation of Benefits
 
.  All notices and other communications required hereunder shall be in writing and shall be delivered personally or mailed by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or by overnight express courier service.  In the case of the Participant, mailed notices shall be addressed to him or her at the home address which he or she most recently communicated to the Company in writing.  In the case of the Company, mailed notices shall be addressed to the Plan Administrator.
Section 11.02      
Notices
 
.  Any successor to the Company shall assume the obligations under this Plan and expressly agree to perform the obligations under this Plan.
Section 11.03      
Successors
 
.  Except as otherwise provided in this Plan, no Participant shall be entitled to any cash payments or other severance benefits under any of the Company's then current severance pay policies for a termination that is covered by this Plan for the Participant.
Section 11.04      
Other Payments
 
.  Except as otherwise provided in Section 4.01(d) and Section 4.04, Participant shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any Severance Benefit provided for in this Plan by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of any Severance Benefit provided for herein be reduced by any compensation earned by other employment or otherwise, except if the Participant is re-employed by Company, in which case Severance Benefits shall cease.
Section 11.05      
No Mitigation
 
.  Neither the establishment of the Plan, nor any modification thereof, nor the creation of any fund, trust or account, nor the payment of any benefits shall be construed as giving any Eligible Employee or any person whosoever, the right to be retained in the service of the Company, and all Eligible Employees shall remain subject to discharge to the same extent as if the Plan had never been adopted.
Section 11.06      
No Contract of Employment
 
.  If any provision of this Plan shall be held invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions hereof, and this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such provisions had not been included.
Section 11.07      
Severability of Provisions
.  This Plan shall be binding upon the heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns of the parties, including each Participant, present and future.
Section 11.08      
Heirs, Assigns, and Personal Representatives
 
.  The headings and captions herein are provided for reference and convenience only, shall not be considered part of the Plan, and shall not be employed in the construction of the Plan.
Section 11.09      
Headings and Captions
 
.  Where the context admits: words in any gender shall include any other gender, and, except where otherwise clearly indicated by context, the singular shall include the plural, and vice-versa.
Section 11.10      
Gender and Number
 
.  The Plan shall not be funded.  No Participant shall have any right to, or interest in, any assets of the Company that may be applied by the Company to the payment of Severance Benefits.
Section 11.11      
Unfunded Plan
 
.  Any benefit payable to or for the benefit of a minor, an incompetent person or other person incapable of receipting therefor shall be deemed paid when paid to such person's guardian or to the party providing or reasonably appearing to provide for the care of such person, and such payment shall fully discharge the Company, the Committee and all other parties with respect thereto.
Section 11.12      
Payments to Incompetent Persons
 
.  A benefit shall be deemed forfeited if the Committee is unable to locate a Participant to whom a Severance Benefit is due.  Such Severance Benefit shall be reinstated if application is made by the Participant for the forfeited Severance Benefit while this Plan is in operation.
Section 11.13      
Lost Payees
 
.  This Plan shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of New York to the extent not superseded by Federal law.
Section 11.14      
Controlling Law

EXHIBIT 10.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
.  The purpose of the Plan is to provide Eligible Employees with certain compensation and benefits as set forth in the Plan in the event the Eligible Employee's employment with the Company or a Subsidiary is terminated due to a Change in Control Termination.  The Plan is not intended to be an "employee pension benefit plan" or "pension plan" within the meaning of Section 3(2) of ERISA.  Rather, this Plan is intended to be a "welfare benefit plan" within the meaning of Section 3(1) of ERISA and to meet the descriptive requirements of a plan constituting a "severance pay plan" within the meaning of regulations published by the Secretary of Labor at Title 29, , section 2510.3-2(b).  Accordingly, the benefits paid by the Plan are not deferred compensation and no employee shall have a vested right to such benefits.
Section 1.01        
Purpose of the Plan
Code of Federal Regulations
 
.  The Plan shall generally be effective as of the Effective Date, but subject to amendment from time to time in accordance with Section 8.01.  The Plan shall continue until terminated pursuant to Article VIII of the Plan.
Section 1.02        
Term of the Plan
DEFINITIONS
 
"" shall mean 100% of the Participant's target annual bonus.
Section 2.01        
Annual Bonus
 
"" shall mean the annual base salary in effect as of the Participant's Termination Date.
Section 2.02        
Base Salary
 
"" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company or any successor thereto, or a committee thereof specifically designated for purposes of making determinations hereunder.
Section 2.03        
Board
 
"" shall mean (i) a material violation of any fiduciary duty owed to the Company, (ii) conviction of, a felony or misdemeanor, (iii) dishonesty, (iv) theft, or (v) other egregious conduct, that is likely to have a materially detrimental impact on the Company and its employees.  Whether an Eligible Employee's termination is as a result of Cause shall be determined in the discretion of the Plan Administrator.
Section 2.04        
Cause
or entry of a plea of nolo contendere with respect to,
 
""  shall mean any of the following events:
Section 2.05        
Change in Control
 
(i)            any "person" (as defined in Section 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act, excluding for this purpose, (i) the Company or any subsidiary company (wherever incorporated) of the Company as defined by Section 86 of the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, as amended or (ii) any employee benefit plan of the Company or any such subsidiary company (or any person or entity organized, appointed or established by the Company for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan that acquires beneficial ownership of voting securities of the Company), is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) directly or indirectly of securities of the Company representing more than 30 percent of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; provided, however, that no Change in Control will be deemed to have occurred as a result of a change in ownership percentage resulting solely from an acquisition of securities by the Company;
 
(ii)           persons who, as of the Effective Date, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason (including without limitation, as a result of a tender offer, proxy contest, merger or similar transaction) to constitute at least a majority thereof, provided that any person becoming a Director of the Company subsequent to the Effective Date shall be considered an Incumbent Director if such person's election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least 50 percent of the Incumbent Directors; but provided further, that any such person whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened proxy contest relating to the election of members of the Board or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a "person" (as defined in Section 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) other than the Board, including by reason of agreement intended to avoid or settle any such actual or threatened contest or solicitation, shall not be considered an Incumbent Director;
(iii)          consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of at least 80 percent of the assets of the Company (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners of outstanding voting securities of the Company immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own directly or indirectly more than 50 percent of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the company resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a company which, as a result of such transaction, owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiary companies (wherever incorporated) of the Company as defined by Section 86 of the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, as amended) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of the outstanding voting securities of the Company; or
 
(iv)          approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
""  shall mean a Participant's Involuntary Termination or Good Reason Resignation that occurs during the period beginning 60 days prior to the date of a Change in Control and ending two years after the date of such Change in Control.
Section 2.06        
Change in Control Termination
 
"" shall mean the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended.
Section 2.07        
COBRA
 
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Section 2.08        
Code
 
"" shall mean the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board or such other committee appointed by the Board to assist the Company in making determinations required under the Plan in accordance with its terms.  The "Committee" may delegate its authority under the Plan to an individual or another committee.
Section 2.09        
Committee
 
"" shall mean Tyco Electronics Ltd.  Unless it is otherwise clear from the context, Company shall generally include participating Subsidiaries.
Section 2.10        
Company
 
"" shall mean July 1, 2007.
Section 2.11        
Effective Date
 
"" shall mean an Employee who is an Officer or an employee in the Band 1 classification. If there is any question as to whether an Employee is deemed an Eligible Employee for purposes of the Plan, the Plan Administrator shall make the determination.
Section 2.12        
Eligible Employee
 
"" shall mean an individual employed by an Employer as a common law employee on the United States payroll of Tyco Electronics Ltd. or a Subsidiary, and shall not include any person working for the Company through a temporary service or on a leased basis or who is hired by the Company as an independent contractor, consultant, or otherwise as a person who is not an employee for purposes of withholding federal employment taxes, as evidenced by payroll records or a written agreement with the individual, regardless of
Section 2.13        
Employee
any contrary governmental or judicial determination or holding relating to such status or tax withholding.
 
"" shall mean the Company or any Subsidiary with respect to which this Plan has been adopted.
Section 2.14        
Employer
 
"" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and regulations thereunder.
Section 2.15        
ERISA
 
"" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Section 2.16        
Exchange Act
 
"" shall mean the Tyco Electronics Severance Plan for U.S. Officers and Executives, which plan is superseded by this Plan in the event of any Participant's Change in Control Termination.
Section 2.17        
Executive Severance Plan
 
"" shall mean any retirement or termination of employment by a Participant that is not initiated by the Company or any Subsidiary and that is caused by any one or more of the following events which occurs during the period beginning 60 days prior to the date of a Change in Control and ending two years after the date of such Change in Control:
Section 2.18        
Good Reason Resignation
 
(1)  Without the Participant's written consent, the Company (a) assigns or causes to be assigned to the Participant any duties inconsistent in any material respect with his or her position as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control, (b) makes or causes to be made any material adverse change in the Participant's position (including titles and reporting relationships and level), authority, duties or responsibilities, or (c) takes or causes to be taken any other action which, in the reasonable judgment of the Participant, would cause him or her to violate his or her ethical or professional obligations (after written notice of such judgment has been provided by the Participant to the Committee and the Company has been given a 15-day period within which to cure such action), or which results in a significant diminution in such position, authority, duties or responsibilities;
 
(2)  Without the Participant's written consent, the Participant's being required to relocate to a principal place of employment more than sixty (60) miles from his or her existing principal place of employment;
 
(3)  Without the Participant's written consent, the Company (a) reduces the Participant's Base Salary or Annual Bonus, or (b) reduces the Participant's retirement, welfare, stock incentive, perquisite and other benefits, taken as a whole; or
 
(4)  The Company fails to obtain a satisfactory agreement from any Successor to assume and agree to perform the Company's obligations to the Participant under this Plan, as contemplated in Section 11.03 herein.
 
provided, that if the Participant remains in employment for more than one hundred and eighty (180) days following the occurrence of (or, if later, the Participant's gaining knowledge of) any event set forth above, any subsequent retirement or termination of employment by a Participant
that is not initiated by the Company or any Subsidiary shall not constitute a Good Reason Resignation. Whether a Participant's termination is as a result of a Good Reason Resignation shall be determined in the discretion of the Plan Administrator.
 
"" shall mean a termination of the Participant initiated by the Company or a Subsidiary for any reason other than Cause, Permanent Disability or death, as provided under and subject to the conditions of Article III.
Section 2.19        
Involuntary Termination
 
"" shall mean the amounts that a Participant is eligible to receive pursuant to Article IV of the Plan.
Section 2.20        
Notice Pay
 
"" shall mean any individual who is an officer of an Employer, and who is considered an officer for purposes of Rule 16a-1(f) as promulgated under the Exchange Act immediately before the Change in Control.
Section 2.21        
Officer
 
"" shall mean any Eligible Employee who meets the requirements of Article III and thereby becomes eligible for salary continuation and other benefits under the Plan.
Section 2.22        
Participant
 
"" shall mean that an Employee has a permanent and total incapacity from engaging in any employment for the Employer for physical or mental reasons.  A "Permanent Disability" shall be deemed to exist if the Employee meets the requirements for disability benefits under the Employer's long-term disability plan or under the requirements for disability benefits under the Social Security law (or similar law outside the United States, if the Employee is employed in that jurisdiction) then in effect, or if the Employee is designated with an inactive employment status at the end of a disability or medical leave.
Section 2.23        
Permanent Disability
 
"" means the Tyco Electronics Ltd.   Change in Control Severance Plan for Certain U.S. Officers and Executives as set forth herein, and as the same may from time to time be amended.
Section 2.24        
Plan
 
"" shall mean, for the period prior to a Potential Change in Control, the individual(s) appointed by the Committee to administer the terms of the Plan as set forth herein and if no individual is appointed by the Committee to serve as the Plan Administrator for the Plan, the Plan Administrator shall be the Senior Vice President  Human Resources for Tyco Electronics (or the equivalent).  In the event of the occurrence of a Potential Change in Control, the Senior Vice-President, Human Resources for Tyco Electronics (or the equivalent) shall appoint a person or entity independent of the Company and any person operating under the Company's control or on its behalf to serve as Plan Administrator (and such person or entity shall be the Plan Administrator for all purposes after such appointment), and such appointment shall take effect and become irrevocable as of the date of said appointment (provided that such appointment shall be revocable if a Change in Control does not occur and the Potential Change in Control expires in accordance with Section 2.26(y)).  For periods prior to a Potential Change in Control, the Plan Administrator may delegate all or any portion of its authority under the Plan to any other person(s).
Section 2.25        
Plan Administrator
 
"" shall mean the occurrence and continuation of any of the following: (a)any "person" (as defined in Section 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange
Section 2.26        
Potential Change in Control
securities unless such Person has reported or is required to report such ownership on Schedule 13G under the Exchange Act (or any comparable or successor report) or on Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act (or any comparable or successor report), which Schedule 13D does not state any intention to or reserve the right to control or influence the management or policies of the Company or engage in any of the actions specified in Item 4 of such Schedule (other than the disposition of the common stock) so long as such Person neither reports nor is required to report such ownership other than as described in this paragraph; provided, however, that a Potential Change in Control will not be deemed to have occurred as a result of a change in ownership percentage resulting solely from an acquisition of securities by the Company, (b) the Company enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrenceof a Change in Control, (c) any "person" (as defined in subsection(a)) publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions which, if consummated, would constitute or result in a Change in Control, (d) any person ( as defined in subsection (a)) commences a solicitation (as defined in Rule 14a-1 of the Exchange Act) of proxies or consents that has the purpose of effecting or would (if successful) result in a Change in Control, (e) a tender or exchange offer for at least 30% of the outstanding voting securities of the Company, made by a "person" (as defined in subsection (a)), is first published or sent or given (within the meaning of Rule 14d-2(a) of the Exchange Act), or (f) the Board adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of the Plan, a Potential Change in Control has occurred.  The Potential Change in Control shall be deemed in effect until the earlier of (x) the occurrence of a Change in Control, or (y) the adoption by the Board of a resolution stating that, for purposes of the Plan, the Potential Change in Control has expired.
Act), excluding for this purpose, (i) the Company or any subsidiary company (wherever incorporated) of the Company as defined by Section 86 of the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, as amended or (ii) any employee benefit plan of the Company or any such subsidiary company (or any person or entity organized, appointed or established by the Company for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan that acquires beneficial ownership of voting securities of the Company), is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) directly or indirectly of securities of the Company representing more than 5 percent of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding
 
"" shall mean the Separation of Employment Agreement and General Release, as provided by the Company.
Section 2.27        
Release
 
"" shall mean the salary and bonus replacement amounts and other benefits that a Participant is eligible to receive pursuant to Article IV of the Plan.
Section 2.28        
Severance Benefit
 
"" shall mean the period for which a Participant is entitled to receive Severance Benefits under this Plan, as follows:  Chief Executive Officer  36 months; Officers who are direct reports to the Chief Executive Officer  24 months; and other Officer and Band 1 employees  18 months.
Section 2.29        
Severance Period
 
"" shall mean (i) a subsidiary company (wherever incorporated) as defined by section 86 of the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda (as amended), (ii) any separately organized business unit, whether or not incorporated, of the Company, and (iii) any employer that is required to be aggregated with the Company pursuant to section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and regulations issued thereunder.
Section 2.30        
Subsidiary
"" shall mean any other corporation or unincorporated entity or group of corporations or unincorporated entities which acquires ownership, directly or indirectly, through merger, consolidation, purchase or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company.
Section 2.31        
Successor
 
"" shall mean the date on which the active employment of the Participant by the Company or a Subsidiary is severed by reason of an Involuntary Termination or a Good Reason Resignation.
Section 2.32        
Termination Date
 
"" shall mean any retirement or termination of employment that is not initiated by the Company or any Subsidiary other than a Good Reason Resignation.
Section 2.33        
Voluntary Resignation
 
.  Each Eligible Employee in the Plan who incurs a Change in Control Termination and who satisfies the conditions of Section 3.02 shall be eligible to receive the Severance Benefits described in the Plan, subject however, to the application of the non-duplication provisions of Section 4.05. 
Section 3.01        
Participation
 
.
Section 3.02        
Conditions
 
(a)           Eligibility for any Severance Benefits is expressly conditioned on (i) execution by the Participant of a Release in the form provided by the Company; (ii) compliance by the Participant with all the terms and conditions of such Release; (iii) the Participant's written agreement to the confidentiality and non-disparagement provisions in Article VI during and after the Participant's employment with the Company; and (iv) execution of a written agreement that authorizes the deduction of amounts owed to the Company prior to the payment of any Severance Benefit (or in accordance with any other schedule as is agreed between the Participant and the Company).  If the Plan Administrator determines that the Participant has not fully complied with any of the terms of the Release, the Plan Administrator may withhold Severance Benefits not yet in pay status or discontinue the payment of the Participant's Severance Benefit and may require the Participant, by providing written notice of such repayment obligation to the Participant, to repay any portion of the Severance Benefit already received under the Plan.  If the Plan Administrator notifies a Participant that repayment of all or any portion of the Severance Benefit received under the Plan is required, such amounts shall be repaid within thirty (30) calendar days of the date the written notice is sent, provided, however, that if the Participant files an appeal of such determination under the claims procedures described in Article X, then such repayment obligation shall be suspended pending the outcome of the appeals procedure.  Any remedy under this subsection (a) shall be in addition to, and not in place of, any other remedy, including injunctive relief, that the Company may have.
 
(b)           An Eligible Employee will not be eligible to receive severance benefits under any of the following circumstances:
 
(i)            The Eligible Employee's Voluntary Resignation; 
 
(ii)           The Eligible Employee resigns employment (other than a Good Reason Resignation) before the job-end date mutually agreed to in writing between the Participant and the Employer, including any extension thereto as is mutually agreed to in writing between the parties; 
 
(iii)          The Eligible Employee's employment is terminated for Cause; 
(iv)          The Eligible Employee's employment is terminated due to the Eligible Employee's death or Permanent Disability; 
 
(v)           The Eligible Employee does not return to work within the period prescribed by law (or if there is no such period prescribed by law, then within a reasonable period as is determined by the Plan Administrator) following an approved leave of absence,  unless such period is extended by mutual written agreement of the parties; or
 
(vi)          The Eligible Employee's employment with the Employer terminates as a result of a Change in Control and the Eligible Employee accepts employment, or has the opportunity to continue employment, with a Successor (other than under terms and conditions which would permit a Good Reason Resignation).  .
 
(c)           The Plan Administrator has the discretion to make initial determinations regarding an Eligible Employee's eligibility to receive Severance Benefits hereunder. 
 
(d)           An Eligible Employee returning from approved military leave during the period beginning 60 days before a Change in Control and ending two years after a Change in Control will be eligible for Severance Benefits if: (i) he/she is eligible for reemployment under the provisions of the Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA); (ii) his/her pre-military leave job is eliminated; and (iii) the Employer's circumstances are changed so as to make reemployment in another position impossible or unreasonable, or re-employment would create an undue hardship for the Employer.  If the Eligible Employee returning from military leave qualifies for Severance Benefits, his/her severance benefits will be calculated as if he/she had remained continuously employed from the date he/she began his/her military leave.  The Eligible Employee must also satisfy any other relevant conditions for payment, including execution of a Release.
 
. The Severance Benefits to be provided to an Eligible Employee who incurs a Change in Control Termination and is determined to be eligible for Severance Benefits shall be as follows:
Section 4.01        
Amount of Severance Benefits Upon Involuntary Termination and Good Reason Resignation
 
(a)           .  Except for Officers, each Eligible Employee who meets the eligibility requirements for a Severance Benefit under Section 3.01 shall receive 30 calendar days notice as a Notice Period.  In the event that the Company determines that a Participant's last day of work shall be prior to the end of his or her Notice Period, such Employee shall be entitled to pay in lieu of notice for the balance of such Notice Period.  Notice Pay paid to an Eligible Employee shall be in addition to, and not offset against, the Severance Benefits the Participant may be entitled to receive under this Article IV.  An Eligible Employee who does not sign, or who revokes his or her signature on, a Release shall only be eligible for Notice Pay.  Unless otherwise permitted by the applicable plan documents or laws, an Eligible Employee will not be eligible to apply for short-term disability, long-term disability and/or workers' compensation anytime after the Eligible Employee's last active day at work.
Notice Pay
 
(b)           .  Salary Replacement Benefits shall be provided to the Participant in an amount as set forth in Schedule A appended to the Plan.
Salary Replacement Benefits
 
(c)           .
Bonus
 
(i)            The Participant shall receive a cash payment equal to his or her pro rated annual bonus (based on the number of full months completed from the beginning of the fiscal year through the Termination Date) for the year in which Participant's Termination Date occurs, pursuant to the terms set forth in the applicable incentive plans; provided, however, that to the extent that a bonus payment for such period is paid as a result of a Change in Control under the terms of such other incentive plan, then the amount otherwise payable under this Section 4(c) will be offset by the payment made under such other incentive plan .
 
(ii)           The Participant shall also receive a cash payment equal to his or her Annual Bonus in an amount as set forth in Schedule A appended to the Plan.
 
(d)           .  The Participant shall continue to be eligible to participate in the medical and dental coverage in effect at the date of his or her termination (or generally comparable coverage) for himself or herself and, where applicable, his or her spouse or domestic partner and dependents, as the same may be changed from time to time for employees of the Company generally, as if Participant had continued in employment during the Severance Period (the "COBRA Continuation Coverage Period").  The Participant shall be responsible for the payment of the employee portion of the medical and dental contributions that are required during the Severance Period and such contributions shall be made within the time period and in the amounts that other employees are required to pay to the Company for similar coverage.  The Participant's failure to pay the applicable contributions shall result in the cessation of the
Medical and Dental Benefits
applicable medical and dental coverage for the Participant and his or her spouse or domestic partner and dependents.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, in the event that a Participant commences employment with another company at any time during the Severance Period, the Participant may cease receiving coverage under the Company's medical and dental plans.  Within thirty (30) days of Participant's commencement of employment with another company, Participant shall provide the Company written notice of such employment and provide information to the Company regarding the medical and dental benefits provided to Participant by his or her new employer.  The COBRA Continuation Coverage Period under section 4980B of the Code shall run concurrently with the Severance Period.
 
(e)           .  All stock options held by the Participant as of his or her Termination Date that were granted prior to the Change in Control and that are not already vested and exercisable as of such date shall become vested and exercisable on the Termination Date.  All outstanding stock options held by Participant that were granted prior to the Change in Control and that are vested and exercisable as of the Termination Date and all stock options held by the Participant that become vested and exercisable under the preceding sentence shall be exercisable for the greater of (i) the period set forth in Participant's option agreement covering such options, or (ii) twelve (12) months from the Termination Date.  In no event, however, shall an option be exercisable beyond its original expiration date.
Stock Options
 
(f)            .  All unvested restricted stock and restricted stock units held by the Participant as of his or her Termination Date that were granted prior to the Change in Control and that are subject solely to time-vesting requirements shall accelerate and become immediately vested as of the Termination Date.  All unvested restricted stock and restricted stock units held by the Participant as of his or her Termination Date that were granted prior to the Change in Control and that are subject to performance-based vesting provisions shall accelerate and become vested if and to the extent that the plan administrator responsible for the administration of such awards determines in its sole discretion that the applicable performance vesting requirements have been or will be attained, or would have been attained during the Severance Period in the ordinary course but for the Change in Control and the Participant's Change in Control Termination.
Restricted Stock
 
(g)           .  The Company will pay the cost of outplacement services for the Participant for a period of twelve (12) months from Participant's Termination Date.  The Company shall pay the cost of outplacement services at either (i) the outplacement agency that the Company regularly uses for such purpose, or (ii)  the outplacement agency selected by the Participant, provided that the Company will be responsible to pay no more than the cost that would have been incurred had the Participant used the outplacement agency that the Company regularly uses for such purpose.
Outplacement Services
 
(h)           .  In the event that provision of any of the benefits in (d) above would adversely affect the tax status of the applicable plan or benefits, the Company, in its sole discretion, may elect to pay to the Participant cash in lieu of such coverage in an amount equal to the Company's premium or average cost of providing such coverage.
Cash in Lieu of Benefit
 
(i)            .  If any applicable equity compensation or incentive plan or grant instrument, without regard to (c), (e) or (f) above, provides the Participant the right to accelerated vesting or payment of cash incentive awards,
Application of Other Plan Provisions
stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units or incentive awards, and/or an extension of the otherwise applicable option exercise period, in the case of termination of employment following a Change in Control, then the Participant's right to accelerated payment, vesting or extension of the option exercise period shall be determined by whichever of the plan, grant instrument or the provisions of (c), (e) or (f) above provides the most favorable vesting or exercise rights for the Participant in such event.
 
.  If the Eligible Employee's employment terminates on account of (i) the Eligible Employee's Voluntary Resignation, (ii) death, or (iii) Permanent Disability, then the Eligible Employee shall not be entitled to receive Severance Benefits under this Plan and shall be entitled only to those benefits (if any) as may be available under the Company's then-existing benefit plans and policies at the time of such termination.
Section 4.02        
Voluntary Resignation; Termination Due to Death or Permanent Disability
 
.  (a)  If any Eligible Employee's employment terminates on account of termination by the Company for Cause, the Eligible Employee shall not be entitled to receive Severance Benefits under this Plan and shall be entitled only to those benefits that are legally required to be provided to the Eligible Employee.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, if the Committee or the Plan Administrator determines that an Eligible Employee has engaged in conduct that constitutes Cause at any time prior to the Eligible Employee's Termination Date, any Severance Benefit payable to the Eligible Employee under Section 4.01 of the Plan shall immediately cease, and the Eligible Employee shall be required to return any Severance Benefits paid to the Eligible Employee prior to such determination.  The Company may withhold paying Severance Benefits under the Plan pending resolution of any good faith inquiry that is likely to lead to a finding resulting in Cause.  If the Company has offset other payments owed to the Eligible Employee under any other plan or program, it may, in its sole discretion, waive its repayment right solely with respect to the amount of the offset so credited.
Section 4.03        
Termination for Cause
 
(b)           Any dispute regarding a termination for Cause will be resolved by the Plan AdministratorSuch determination will be based on all of the facts and circumstances presented to the Plan Administrator by the Company.  If the Plan Administrator determines that the Eligible Employee's termination of employment is for Cause, then the Plan Administrator will notify the Eligible Employee in writing of such determination, describing in detail the reason for such determination, including without limitation the specific conduct that constituted the basis for the determination.  The Eligible Employee shall have the right to contest the determination of the Plan Administrator in accordance with the Appeals Procedure described in Section 10.03.
. 
 
.  The Plan Administrator reserves the right to make deductions in accordance with applicable law for any monies owed to the Company by the Participant or the value of Company property that the Participant has retained in his/her possession.
Section 4.04        
Reduction of Severance Benefits
 
The Plan is intended to supersede, and not to duplicate, the provisions of the Tyco Electronics Severance Plan for U.S. Officers and Executives ("Executive Severance Plan") in any case in which an Eligible Employee would otherwise be entitled to severance or related benefits under both this Plan and the Executive
Section 4.05         . 
Non-Duplication of Benefits
Severance Plan arising out of the Eligible Employee's Change in Control Termination. However, the Plan is not intended to supersede any other plan, program, arrangement or agreement providing an Eligible Employee with severance or related benefits in the case of an Eligible Employee's Change in Control Termination.  In the event that an Eligible Employee becomes entitled to receive benefits under this Plan and any such benefit duplicates a benefit that would otherwise be provided under any other plan, program, arrangement or agreement as a result of the Eligible Employee's Change in Control Termination, then the Eligible Employee shall be entitled to receive the greater of the benefit available under the Plan, on the one hand, and the benefit available under such other plan, program, arrangement or agreement, on the other.
 
.  The cash Severance Benefits to which a Participant is entitled, as determined pursuant to Section 4.01, shall be paid in a single lump sum payment.  In no event will interest be credited on the unpaid balance for which a Participant may become eligible.  Payment shall be made by mailing to the last address provided by the Participant to the Company or such other reasonable method as determined by the Plan Administrator.  In general, the payment shall be made as promptly as practicable after the Participant's Termination Date, the execution of the Release required under Section 3.02, and the expiration of the required revocation period specified in the Release.  In no event will the payment be made later than the date that is two and one-half (2-1/2) months following the end of the calendar year in which occurs the Termination Date, unless (a) the Participant has failed to deliver the Release required under Section 3.02 or (b) such date is prior to the expiration of the required revocation period specified in the Release.  All payments of Severance Benefits are subject to applicable federal, state and local taxes and withholdings.  In the event of the Participant's death prior to payment being made, the amount of such payment shall be paid to the Participant's estate.
Section 5.01        
Method of Payment
 
.  The provisions of this Plan may provide for payments to the Eligible Employee under certain compensation or bonus plans under circumstances where such plans would not otherwise provide for payment thereof.  It is the specific intention of the Company that the provisions of this Plan shall supersede any provisions to the contrary in such plans, to the extent permitted by applicable law, and such plans shall be deemed to be have been amended to correspond with this Plan without further action by the Company or the Board.
Section 5.02        
Other Arrangements
 
. 
Section 5.03        
Termination of Eligibility for Benefits
 
(a)           All Eligible Employees shall cease to be eligible to participate in the Plan, and all Severance Benefit payments shall cease upon the occurrence of the earlier of:
 
(i)            Subject to Article VIII, termination or modification of the Plan; or
 
(ii)           Completion of payment to the Participant of the Severance Benefit for which the Participant is eligible under Article IV.
 
(b)           Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Company shall have the right to cease all Severance Benefit payments and to recover payments previously made to the Participant should the Participant at any time breach the Participant's undertakings under the terms of the Plan, the Release the Participant executed to obtain the Severance Benefits under the Plan or the confidentiality and non-disparagement provisions of Article VI.
 
Section 5.04        
Limitation on Benefits
 
(a)           Subject to Section 5.04(b), in the event it shall be determined that any payment or distribution by the Company or its Subsidiaries to or for the benefit of a Participant (whether paid or provided pursuant to the terms of this Plan or otherwise) (a "Payment") would
be nondeductible by the Company for Federal income tax purposes because of Section 280G of the Code, then the aggregate present value of the benefits provided to the Participant pursuant to the rights granted under this Plan (such benefits are hereinafter referred to as "Plan Payments") shall be reduced to the Reduced Amount.  The "Reduced Amount" shall be an amount expressed in present value which maximizes the aggregate present value of Plan Payments without causing any Payment to be nondeductible by the Company because of Section 280G of the Code.  For purposes of this Section 5.04, present value shall be determined in accordance with Section 280G(d)(4) of the Code.
 
(b)           If the Firm (as defined in Section 5.04(c)) determines that the payments to the Participant (before any reductions as described in Section 5.04(a)) on an after-tax basis (i.e., after federal, state and local income and excise taxes and federal employment taxes) would exceed the Reduced Amount on an after-tax basis (i.e., after federal, state and local income and federal employment taxes) then such payments will not be reduced as is described in Section 5.04(a).
 
(c)           All determinations required to be made under this Section 5.04 shall be made by a nationally recognized accounting or consulting firm selected by the Senior Vice-President, Human Resources of Tyco Electronics (or the equivalent)  upon the occurrence of a Potential Change in Control (the " Firm"), which shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company and the Participant within fifteen (15) business days of the Termination Date or such earlier time as is requested by the Company.  Any such determination by the Firm shall be binding upon the Company, its successors and the Participant (subject to (e) below).  Within five (5) business days of the determination by the Firm as to the Reduced Amount, the Company shall provide to the Participant such Payments as are then due to the Participant in accordance with the rights afforded under this Plan or any other applicable plan.  If Plan Payments are to be reduced, the Participant shall determine which Plan Payments shall be reduced to comply with this Section 5.04.
 
(d)           The Company shall reimburse the Participant for any costs or expenses of tax counsel incurred by the Participant in connection with any audit or investigation by the Internal Revenue Service, or any state or local tax authorities, concerning the application of Code Section 280G to any Payments (provided, that the Participant retains tax counsel acceptable to the Company). In the event that as a result of any such audit or investigation, the reduction in Plan Payments under (a) above is finally determined not to be sufficient in amount to permit the deduction by the Company of all Payments under Code Section 280G, then the Company shall pay the Participant an additional amount which shall be sufficient to put the Participant, after payment of any additional income, employment and excise taxes, interest and penalties, in substantially the same economic position as if the reduction had been sufficient.
 
(e)           In the event that the Firm determines that a reduction effected pursuant to (a) above was excessive in amount due to changes in relevant data or information following its original determination under (c) above (including, without limitation, any recalculation regarding the value of stock options as contemplated under Rev. Proc. 2003-68, Section 3.04), and that additional Plan Payments could have been made thereunder, the Company shall promptly make such additional payments to the Participant.
 
 
.  The Eligible Employee agrees that he or she shall not, directly or indirectly, use, make available, sell, disclose or otherwise communicate to any person, other than in the course of the Eligible Employee's assigned duties and for the benefit of the Company, either during the period of the Eligible Employee's employment or at any time thereafter, any nonpublic, proprietary or confidential information, knowledge or data relating to the Company, any of its Subsidiaries, affiliated companies or businesses, which shall have been obtained by the Eligible Employee during the Eligible Employee's employment by the Company or a Subsidiary.  The foregoing shall not apply to information that (i) was known to the public prior to its disclosure to the Eligible Employee; (ii) becomes known to the public subsequent to disclosure to the Eligible Employee through no wrongful act of the Eligible Employee or any representative of the Eligible Employee; or (iii) the Eligible Employee is required to disclose by applicable law, regulation or legal process (provided that the Eligible Employee provides the Company with prior notice of the contemplated disclosure and reasonably cooperates with the Company at its expense in seeking a protective order or other appropriate protection of such information).  Notwithstanding clauses (i) and (ii) of the preceding sentence, the Eligible Employee's obligation to maintain such disclosed information in confidence shall not terminate where only portions of the information are in the public domain.
Section 6.01        
Confidential
Information
 
.  Each of the Eligible Employee and the Company (for purposes hereof, the Company shall mean only the executive officers and directors thereof and not any other employees) agrees not to make any statements that disparage the other party, or in the case of the Company or its Subsidiaries, their respective affiliates, employees, officers, directors, products or services.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, statements made in the course of sworn testimony in administrative, judicial or arbitral proceedings (including, without limitation, depositions in connection with such proceedings) shall not be subject to this Section 6.02.
Section 6.02        
Non-Disparagement
 
.  In the event the provisions of this Article VI shall ever be deemed to exceed the time, scope or geographic limitations permitted by applicable laws, then such provisions shall be reformed to the maximum time, scope or geographic limitations, as the case may be, permitted by applicable laws.
Section 6.03        
Reasonableness
 
.
Section 6.04        
Equitable Relief
 
(a)           By participating in the Plan, the Eligible Employee acknowledges that the restrictions contained in this Article VI are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company, its Subsidiaries and its affiliates, that the Company would not have established this Plan in the absence of such restrictions, and that any violation of any provision of this Article will result in irreparable injury to the Company.  By agreeing to participate in the Plan, the Eligible Employee represents that his or her experience and capabilities are such that the restrictions contained in this Article VI will not prevent the Eligible Employee from obtaining employment or otherwise earning a living at the same general level of economic benefit as is currently the case.  The Eligible Employee further represents and acknowledges that (i) he or she has been advised by the Company to consult his or her own legal counsel in respect
of this Plan, and (ii) that he or she has had full opportunity, prior to agreeing to participate in this Plan, to review thoroughly this Plan with his or her counsel.  The Company likewise acknowledges that the restrictions contained in Section 6.02 are necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Participant, and that any violation of Section 6.02 by the Company will result in irreparable injury to the Participant. 
 
(b)           Each party agrees that the other party shall be entitled to preliminary and permanent injunctive relief, without the necessity of proving actual damages, as well as an equitable accounting of all earnings, profits and other benefits arising from any violation of this Article VI, which rights shall be cumulative and in addition to any other rights or remedies to which such aggrieved party may be entitled.  In the event that any of the provisions of this Article VI should ever be adjudicated to exceed the time, geographic, service, or other limitations permitted by applicable law in any jurisdiction, then such provisions shall be deemed reformed in such jurisdiction to the maximum time, geographic, service, or other limitations permitted by applicable law.
 
(c)           The Eligible Employee irrevocably and unconditionally (i) agrees that any suit, action or other legal proceeding arising out of this Article VI, including without limitation, any action commenced by the Company for preliminary and permanent injunctive relief or other equitable relief, may be brought in the United States District Court for the District of New York, or if such court does not have jurisdiction or will not accept jurisdiction, in any court of general jurisdiction in New York, (ii) consents to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of any such court in any such suit, action or proceeding, and (iii) waives any objection which Participant may have to the laying of venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any such court.  Participant also irrevocably and unconditionally consents to the service of any process, pleadings, notices or other papers in a manner permitted by the notice provisions of Section 11.02.
 
.  The obligations contained in this Article VI shall survive the termination of Eligible Employee's employment with the Company or a Subsidiary and shall be fully enforceable thereafter.
Section 6.05        
Survival of Provisions
 
 
.  It shall be the duty of the Plan Administrator, on the basis of information supplied to it by the Company and the Committee, to properly administer the Plan.  The Plan Administrator shall have the full power, authority and discretion to construe, interpret and administer the Plan, to make factual determinations, to correct deficiencies therein, and to supply omissions.  All decisions, actions and interpretations of the Plan Administrator shall be final, binding and conclusive upon the parties with respect to denied claims for Severance Benefits, except in those cases where such determination is subject to review by the Named Appeals Fiduciary (as defined in Section 10.04).  The Plan Administrator may adopt such rules and regulations and may make such decisions as it deems necessary or desirable for the proper administration of the Plan.
Section 7.01        
Authority and Duties
 
.  The Plan Administrator appointed for periods prior to a Potential Change in Control shall receive no compensation for services as such .  The Plan Administrator appointed for periods on and after a Potential Change in Control will be entitled to receive reasonable compensation as is mutually agreed upon between the parties.  All reasonable expenses of the Plan Administrator shall be paid or reimbursed by the Company upon proper documentation.  The Plan Administrator shall be indemnified by the Company against personal liability for actions taken in good faith in the discharge of the Plan Administrator's duties.
Section 7.02        
Compensation of the Plan Administrator
 
.  The Plan Administrator shall keep a copy of all records relating to the payment of Severance Benefits to Participants and former Participants and all other records necessary for the proper operation of the Plan.  All Plan records shall be made available to the Committee, the Company and to each Participant for examination during business hours except that a Participant shall examine only such records as pertain exclusively to the examining Participant and to the Plan.  The Plan Administrator shall prepare and shall file as required by law or regulation all reports, forms, documents and other items required by ERISA, the Code, and every other relevant statute, each as amended, and all regulations thereunder (except that the Company, as payor of the Severance Benefits, shall prepare and distribute to the proper recipients all forms relating to withholding of income or wage taxes, Social Security taxes, and other amounts that may be similarly reportable).
Section 7.03        
Records, Reporting and Disclosure
 
.  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 8.01, the Board or its delegee shall have the right, at any time and from time to time prior to the occurrence of a Potential Change in Control (and after the Potential Change in Control has expired in accordance with Section 2.26(y)), to amend, suspend or terminate the Plan in whole or in part, for any reason or without reason, and without either the consent of or the prior notification to any Participant, by a formal written action.  After the occurrence of a Potential Change in Control, the Board or its delegee shall have the right to amend the Plan, provided however, that (a) in no event shall any amendment give the Company the right to recover any amount paid to a Participant prior to the date of such amendment or to cause the cessation of Severance Benefits already approved for a Participant who has executed a Release as required under Section 3.02 and (b) the Plan may not be amended in any manner that adversely affects any right of a Participant or Eligible Employee without the written consent of such Participant or Eligible Employee. 
Section 8.01        
Amendment, Suspension and Termination
 
.  The Plan shall continue in full force and effect until termination of the Plan pursuant to Section 8.01; provided, however, that after the termination of the Plan, if any Participants terminated employment on account of an Involuntary Termination prior to the termination of the Plan and are still receiving Severance Benefits under the Plan, the Plan shall remain in effect until all of the obligations of the Company are satisfied with respect to such Participants.
Section 8.02        
Duration
 
 
.  The Company or a Subsidiary thereof shall supply to the Committee all records and information necessary to the performance of the Committee's duties.
Section 9.01        
Records
 
. Payments of Severance Benefits to Participants shall be made in such amount as determined by the Committee under Article IV, from the Company's general assets or from a supplemental unemployment benefits trust, in accordance with the terms of the Plan, as directed by the Committee.
Section 9.02        
Payment
 
.  Any decisions, actions or interpretations to be made under the Plan by the Board, the Committee and the Plan Administrator, acting on behalf of either, shall be made in each of their respective sole discretion, not in any fiduciary capacity and need not be uniformly applied to similarly situated individuals and such decisions, actions or interpretations shall be final, binding and conclusive upon all parties.  As a condition of participating in the Plan, the Eligible Employee acknowledges that all decisions and determinations of the Board, the Committee and the Plan Administrator taken in good faith shall be final and binding on the Eligible Employee, his or her beneficiaries and any other person having or claiming an interest under the Plan on his or her behalf.
Section 9.03        
Discretion
.  Each Participant under this Plan may contest any action taken or determination made by the Company, the Board, the Committee or the Plan Administrator that affects the rights of such Participant hereunder by completing and filing with the Plan Administrator a written request for review in the manner specified by the Plan Administrator.  No person may bring an action for any alleged wrongful denial of Plan benefits in a court of law unless the claims procedures described in this Article X are exhausted and a final determination is made by the Plan Administrator and/or the Named Appeals Fiduciary, except in circumstances where the Participant has a reasonable basis to conclude that the pursuit of his/her claim through the claims procedure would be futile.  If the terminated Participant or interested person challenges a decision by the Plan Administrator and/or Named Appeals Fiduciary, a review by the court of law will be limited to the facts, evidence and issues presented to the Plan Administrator during the claims procedure set forth in this Article X.  Facts and evidence that become known to the terminated Participant or other interested person after having exhausted the claims procedure must be brought to the attention of the Plan Administrator for reconsideration of the claims administrator.  Issues not raised with the Plan Administrator and/or Named Appeals Fiduciary will be deemed waived.
Section 10.01      
Claim
 
.  Before the date on which payment of a Severance Benefit commences, each application for benefits must be supported by such information as the Plan Administrator deems relevant and appropriate.  In the event that any claim relating to the administration of Severance Benefits is denied in whole or in part, the terminated Participant or his or her beneficiary ("claimant") whose claim has been so denied shall be notified of such denial in writing by the Plan Administrator within thirty (30) days after the receipt of the claim for benefits.  This period may be extended an additional thirty (30) days if the Plan Administrator determines such extension is necessary and the Plan Administrator provides notice of extension to the claimant prior to the end of the initial thirty (30) day period.  The notice advising of the denial shall specify the following: (i) the reason or reasons for denial, (ii) make specific reference to the Plan provisions on which the determination was based, (iii) describe any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim (explaining why such material or information is needed), and (iv) describe the Plan's review procedures and the time limits applicable to such procedures, including a statement of the claimant's right to bring a civil action under section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse benefit determination on review.
Section 10.02      
Initial Claim
 
.  All appeals shall be made by the following procedure:
Section 10.03      
Appeals of Denied Administrative Claims
 
(a)           A claimant whose claim has been denied shall file with the Plan Administrator a notice of appeal of the denial.  Such notice shall be filed within sixty (60) calendar days of notification by the Plan Administrator of the denial of a claim, shall be made in writing, and shall set forth all of the facts upon which the appeal is based.
 
(b)           The Named Appeals Fiduciary shall consider the merits of the claimant's written presentations, the merits of any facts or evidence in support of the denial of benefits, and such other facts and circumstances as the Named Appeals Fiduciary shall deem relevant.
(c)           The Named Appeals Fiduciary shall render a determination upon the appealed claim which determination shall be accompanied by a written statement as to the reasons therefor.  The determination shall be made to the claimant within thirty (30) days of the claimant's request for review, unless the Names Appeals Fiduciary determines that special circumstances requires an extension of time for processing the claim.  In such case, the Named Appeals Fiduciary shall notify the claimant of the need for an extension of time to render its decision prior to the end of the initial thirty (30) day period, and the Named Appeals Fiduciary shall have an additional thirty (30) day period to make its determination.  The determination so rendered shall be binding upon all parties as long as it is made in good faith.  If the determination is adverse to the claimant, the notice shall provide (i) the reason or reasons for denial, (ii) make specific reference to the Plan provisions on which the determination was based, (iii) a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to a the claimant's claim for benefits, and (iv) state that the claimant has the right to bring an action under section 502(a) of ERISA.
 
.  The Named Appeals Fiduciary shall be the person or persons named as such by the Board or Committee, or, if no such person or persons be named, then the person or persons named by the Plan Administrator as the Named Appeals Fiduciary, provided however, that effective on the date of a Change in Control, the Plan Administrator shall also serve as the Named Appeals Fiduciary.  For periods before the date of a Change in Control, Named Appeals Fiduciaries may at any time be removed by the Board or Committee, and any Named Appeals Fiduciary named by the Plan Administrator may be removed by the Plan Administrator.  All such removals may be with or without cause and shall be effective on the date stated in the notice of removal.  The Named Appeals Fiduciary shall be a "Named Fiduciary" within the meaning of ERISA, and unless appointed to other fiduciary responsibilities, shall have no authority, responsibility, or liability with respect to any matter other than the proper discharge of the functions of the Named Appeals Fiduciary as set forth herein.
Section 10.04      
Appointment of the Named Appeals Fiduciary
 
.  In the event of any dispute under the provisions of this Plan, other than a dispute in which the primary relief sought is an equitable remedy such as an injunction, the parties shall have the dispute, controversy or claim settled by arbitration in New York, New York (or such other location as may be mutually agreed upon by the Employer and the Participant) in accordance with the National Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes then in effect of the American Arbitration Association, before a panel of three arbitrators, two of whom shall be selected by the Company and the Participant, respectively, and the third of whom shall be selected by the other two arbitrators.  Any award entered by the arbitrators shall be final, binding and nonappealable and judgment may be entered thereon by either party in accordance with applicable law in any court of competent jurisdiction.  This arbitration provision shall be specifically enforceable.  The arbitrators shall have no authority to modify any provision of this Plan or to award a remedy for a dispute involving this Plan other than a benefit specifically provided under or by virtue of the Plan.  If the Participant substantially prevails on any material issue, which is the subject of such arbitration or lawsuit, the Company shall be responsible for all of the fees of the American Arbitration Association and the arbitrators and any expenses relating to the conduct of the arbitration (including the Company's and Participant's reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses).  Otherwise, each party shall be
Section 10.05      
Arbitration; Expenses
responsible for its own expenses relating to the conduct of the arbitration (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) and shall share the fees of the American Arbitration Association.
 
.  None of the payments, benefits or rights of any Participant shall be subject to any claim of any creditor of any Participant, and, in particular, to the fullest extent permitted by law, all such payments, benefits and rights shall be free from attachment, garnishment (if permitted under applicable law), trustee's process, or any other legal or equitable process available to any creditor of such Participant.  No Participant shall have the right to alienate, anticipate, commute, plead, encumber or assign any of the benefits or payments that he may expect to receive, continently or otherwise, under this Plan, except for the designation of a beneficiary as set forth in Section 5.01.
Section 11.01      
Nonalienation of Benefits
 
.  All notices and other communications required hereunder shall be in writing and shall be delivered personally or mailed by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or by overnight express courier service.  In the case of the Participant, mailed notices shall be addressed to him or her at the home address which he or she most recently communicated to the Company in writing.  In the case of the Company, mailed notices shall be addressed to the Plan Administrator.
Section 11.02      
Notices
 
.  Any Successor shall assume the obligations under this Plan and expressly agree to perform the obligations under this Plan.
Section 11.03      
Successors
 
.  Except as otherwise provided in this Plan, no Participant shall be entitled to any cash payments or other severance benefits under any of the Company's then current severance pay policies for a termination that is covered by this Plan for the Participant, including, without limitation, the Executive Severance Plan.
Section 11.04      
Other Payments
 
.  Except as otherwise provided in Section 4.01(d) and Section 4.04, Participants shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any Severance Benefit provided for in this Plan by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of any Severance Benefit provided for herein be reduced by any compensation earned by other employment or otherwise, except if the Participant is re-employed by Company, in which case Severance Benefits shall cease.
Section 11.05      
No Mitigation
 
.  Neither the establishment of the Plan, nor any modification thereof, nor the creation of any fund, trust or account, nor the payment of any benefits shall be construed as giving any Eligible Employee or any person whosoever, the right to be retained in the service of the Company, and all Eligible Employees shall remain subject to discharge to the same extent as if the Plan had never been adopted.
Section 11.06      
No Contract of Employment
 
.  If any provision of this Plan shall be held invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions hereof, and this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such provisions had not been included.
Section 11.07      
Severability of Provisions
.  This Plan shall be binding upon the heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns of the parties, including each Participant, present and future.
Section 11.08      
Heirs, Assigns, and Personal Representatives
 
.  The headings and captions herein are provided for reference and convenience only, shall not be considered part of the Plan, and shall not be employed in the construction of the Plan.
Section 11.09      
Headings and Captions
 
.  Where the context admits: words in any gender shall include any other gender, and, except where otherwise clearly indicated by context, the singular shall include the plural, and vice-versa.
Section 11.10      
Gender and Number
 
.  The Plan shall not be funded.  No Participant shall have any right to, or interest in, any assets of the Company that may be applied by the Company to the payment of Severance Benefits.
Section 11.11      
Unfunded Plan
 
  The terms of this Plan are intended to, and shall be interpreted and applied so as to, comply in all respects with the provisions of Code Section 409A and regulations and rulings thereunder.  Any provision of this Plan governing the timing or form of payment of benefits hereunder may be modified by the Plan Administrator if and to the extent required in order to ensure such compliance (by way of example and not limitation, to delay commencement of any benefits payable hereunder that are subject to Code Section 409A until at least six months following a Participant's termination of employment).  Nothing in this provision shall be construed as an admission that any of the benefits payable hereunder constitute "deferred compensation" subject to the provisions of Code Section 409A.
Section 11.12      
Compliance with Code Section 409A.
 
.  Any benefit payable to or for the benefit of a minor, an incompetent person or other person incapable of receipting therefor shall be deemed paid when paid to such person's guardian or to the party providing or reasonably appearing to provide for the care of such person, and such payment shall fully discharge the Company, the Committee and all other parties with respect thereto.
Section 11.13      
Payments to Incompetent Persons
 
.  A benefit shall be deemed forfeited if the Committee is unable to locate a Participant to whom a Severance Benefit is due.  Such Severance Benefit shall be reinstated if application is made by the Participant for the forfeited Severance Benefit while this Plan is in operation.
Section 11.14      
Lost Payees
 
.  This Plan shall be construed and enforced according to the laws of the State of New York to the extent not superseded by Federal law.
Section 11.15      
Controlling Law

EXHIBIT 10.3
 
ARTICLE I Purpose
 
. The name of this plan is the Tyco Electronics Corporation Supplemental Savings and Retirement Plan. The Plan is effective as of and is contingent upon the Separation and was created as a spin-off from and a continuation of the Tyco Supplemental Savings and Retirement Plan ("Tyco SSRP") with respect to the Accounts of certain Participants who are aligned with the Tyco Electronics business unit in conjunction with the separation of Tyco Electronics Ltd. and its underlying subsidiaries from the Tyco International Ltd. controlled group of corporations (the "Separation"). This Separation results from a transaction whereby the public shareholders of Tyco International Ltd. ("TIL") will be issued stock dividends consisting of the common stock of Tyco Electronics Ltd. and Covidien Ltd., as described in Forms 10 filed with the SEC by Tyco Electronics Ltd. and Covidien Ltd. on January 18, 2007. The Plan was also created to provide certain of the key employees of the Company and the key employees of its parents, subsidiaries and affiliates with the ability to defer receipt of compensation that would otherwise be payable to them and to make up for amounts that could not be contributed on their behalf as matching contributions under the Tyco Electronics Corporation Retirement Savings and Investment Plan due to certain restrictions applicable under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
1.1
          
Supplemental Savings and Retirement Plan
 
. With respect to each Participant (or Beneficiary, as applicable) who participated in the Tyco SSRP prior to the Separation and who was aligned with the Tyco Electronics business unit, Tyco International Management Company shall transfer from the Tyco SSRP to such Participant's or Beneficiary's Account under the Plan an amount equal to the value of the notional accounts credited to the Participant or Beneficiary under the Tyco SSRP immediately prior to such transfer. The transfer of the value of the notional accounts pursuant to this paragraph shall be in lieu of maintaining such credits and liabilities under the Tyco SSRP and such transfer shall occur as of, and is contingent upon, the Separation.
1.2
          
Benefits Under the Tyco SSRP and the Plan
 
Benefits for any Participant or Beneficiary that were credited under the Tyco SSRP prior to the Effective Date and which were transferred to this Plan will be determined in accordance with the provisions of the Tyco SSRP, but paid in accordance with this Plan, unless modifications to such transferred benefits are specifically provided by a subsequent amendment to this Plan. Benefits credited on and after the Effective Date shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of this Plan.
 
. The Company intends that the Plan shall at all times be maintained on an unfunded basis for federal income tax purposes under the Code, and administered as a non-qualified, "top hat" plan exempt from the substantive requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"). The provisions of this Plan shall apply to Base Salary Deferrals, Bonus
1.3
          
Deferred Compensation Plan
Compensation Deferrals, Spillover Deferrals, Matching Credits, Company Credits and Discretionary Credits and to any earnings credited thereon.
 
. The Accounts of Participants and Beneficiaries that are transferred to the Plan from the Tyco SSRP in conjunction with the Separation ("Transferred Participants") shall be subject to certain special terms and conditions as follows:
1.4
          
Transferred Participant Elections under the Tyco SSRP
 
. Absent an affirmative election to the contrary, a Transferred Participant's election to designate a beneficiary(ies) under the Tyco SSRP shall be deemed to be an election to designate the same beneficiary(ies) under the Plan.
(a)
          
Beneficiary Designation
 
. A Transferred Participant's Enrollment and Payment Agreement under the Tyco SSRP prior to the Effective Date (i) shall be deemed to be an election to make Compensation Deferrals under the Plan, (ii) shall be deemed to be an election as to the timing and form of distribution for amounts relating to the applicable Enrollment and Payment Agreement, and (iii) shall be deemed to be an election to allocate his or her Account to certain Measurement Funds under the Plan, as provided in Section 7.2 of the Plan.
(b)
          
Enrollment and Payment Agreement
 
. Irrevocable Compensation Deferral elections made under the Tyco SSRP for the 2007 Plan Year shall be deemed to be elections to make irrevocable Compensation Deferrals under the Plan for the 2007 Plan Year.
(c)
          
Deferral Elections for 2007
 
. The terms of this Plan are intended to, and shall be interpreted and applied so as to, comply in all respects with the provisions of Code Section 409A and regulations and rulings thereunder.
1.5
          
Compliance with Code Section 409A
 
ARTICLE II Definitions
 
For ease of reference, the following definitions will be used in the Plan:
 
. "Account" means the bookkeeping account maintained on the books of the Company used solely to calculate the amount payable to each Participant who defers Compensation under this Plan or is otherwise entitled to a benefit under Article VI and shall not constitute a separate fund of assets. The term "Account" includes the value of amounts transferred from the Tyco SSRP in conjunction with the Separation.
2.1
          
Account
 
. "Affiliated Company" shall mean a United States (a) corporation which, together with TEL, is a member of a controlled group of corporations (as defined in Section 414(b) of the Code), (b) trade or business (whether or not incorporated) which is under common control (as defined in Section 414(c) of the Code) with TEL, (c) corporation, partnership or other entity which, together with TEL, is a
2.2
          
Affiliated Company
member of an affiliated service group (as defined in Section 414(m) of the Code), or (d) organization which is required to be aggregated with TEL pursuant to regulations promulgated under Section 414(o) of the Code.
 
. "Base Salary" means the annual rate of base salary paid to each Participant as of any date of reference before any reduction for any amounts deferred by the Participant pursuant to Section 401(k) or Section 125 of the Code, or pursuant to this Plan or any other non-qualified plan which permits the voluntary deferral of compensation.
2.3
          
Base Salary
 
. "Base Salary Deferral" means that portion of Base Salary as to which a Participant has made an election to defer receipt pursuant to Article V.
2.4
          
Base Salary Deferral
 
. "Beneficiary" or "Beneficiaries" means the person or persons designated by the Participant to receive payments under this Plan in the event of the Participant's death as provided in Section 10.3.
2.5
          
Beneficiary(ies)
 
. "Board" means the Board of Directors of TEL.
2.6
          
Board
 
. "Bonus Compensation" means any annual performance-based cash bonus or incentive compensation payable to a Participant as of any date of reference before any reduction for any amounts deferred by the Participant pursuant to Section 401(k) or Section 125 of the Code, or pursuant to this Plan or any other non-qualified plan which permits the voluntary deferral of compensation. Bonus Compensation shall not include any special or one-time bonus payment or any amount paid under any equity incentive plan.
2.7
          
Bonus Compensation
 
. "Bonus Compensation Deferral" means that portion of Bonus Compensation as to which a Participant has made an election to defer receipt pursuant to Article V.
2.8
          
Bonus Compensation Deferral
 
. "Cause" means a Participant's (i) substantial failure or refusal to perform duties and responsibilities of his or her job as required by the Company, (ii) violation of any fiduciary duty owed to the Company, (iii) conviction of a felony or misdemeanor, (iv) dishonesty, (v) theft, (vi) violation of Company rules or policy, or (vii) other egregious conduct, that has or could have a serious and detrimental impact on the Company and its employees. The Plan Administrator, in its sole and absolute discretion, shall determine Cause. Examples of "Cause" may include, but are not limited to, excessive absenteeism, misconduct, insubordination, violation of Company policy, dishonesty, and deliberate unsatisfactory performance (e.g., Employee refuses to improve deficient performance).
2.9
          
Cause
 
. "Change of Control" means any of the following events:
2.10
        
Change of Control
 
any "person" (as defined in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), excluding for this purpose (i) TEL or any subsidiary company (wherever incorporated) of TEL as defined by Section 86 of the Companies Act
(a)
          
1981 of Bermuda, as amended (a "Subsidiary") and (ii) any employee benefit plan of TEL or any Subsidiary (or any person or entity organized, appointed or established by TEL for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan that acquires beneficial ownership of voting securities of TEL), is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) directly or indirectly of securities of TEL representing more than 30% of the combined voting power of TEL's then-outstanding securities; provided, however, that no Change of Control will be deemed to have occurred as a result of a change in ownership percentage resulting solely from an acquisition of securities by TEL;
 
persons who, as of the Amendment Effective Date, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason (including without limitation, as a result of a tender offer, proxy contest, merger or similar transaction) to constitute at least a majority thereof, provided that any person becoming a Director of TEL subsequent to the Amendment Effective Date shall be considered an Incumbent Director if such person's election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least 50% of the Incumbent Directors; but provided further that any such person whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened proxy contest relating to the election of members of the Board or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a "person" (as defined in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) other than the Board, including by reason of agreement intended to avoid or settle any such actual or threatened contest or solicitation, shall not be considered an Incumbent Director;
(b)
          
 
consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of at least 80% of the assets of TEL (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners of outstanding voting securities of TEL immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own directly or indirectly more than 50% of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the company resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a company which, as a result of such transaction, owns TEL or all or substantially all of TEL's assets either directly or through one or more Subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of the outstanding voting securities of TEL; or
(c)
          
 
approval by the stockholders of TEL of a complete liquidation or dissolution of TEL.
(d)
          
 
. "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (and any regulations thereunder).
2.11
        
Code
 
. "Company" means Tyco Electronics Corporation, a Pennsylvania corporation, and its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates and successors
2.12
        
Company
(excluding any parent, subsidiary or affiliate that has not been approved by the Company for participation in this Plan). Where the context so requires, "Company" used in reference to a Participant means the specific entity that is part of the Company as defined herein that employs the Participant at any relevant time.
 
. "Company Credit" means an amount credited by the Company for the benefit of a Participant pursuant to Section 6.3.
2.13
        
Company Credit
 
. "Compensation" means an Eligible Employee's (i) Base Salary as in effect from time to time during a Plan Year, (ii) Commission Compensation earned during a Plan Year and (iii) Bonus Compensation earned for an applicable Fiscal Year. For purposes of determining a Participant's Company Credits under Section 6.3 and Discretionary Credits under Section 6.4 for any Plan Year, Compensation shall include only Base Salary, Bonus Compensation and Commission Compensation actually paid to the Participant during such Plan Year. Moreover, for purposes of Spillover Deferral elections under Section 6.1, Compensation shall not include Commission Compensation. In no event shall any of the following items be treated as Compensation hereunder: (i) payments from this Plan or any other Company nonqualified deferred compensation plan; (ii) income from the exercise of nonqualified stock options or from the disqualifying disposition of incentive stock options, or realized upon vesting of restricted stock or the delivery of shares in respect of restricted stock units (or other similar items of income related to equity compensation grants or exercises); (iii) reimbursement for moving expenses or other relocation expenses; (iv) mortgage interest differentials; (v) payment for reimbursement of taxes; (vi) international assignment premiums, allowances or other reimbursements; or (vii) any other payments as determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion.
2.14
        
Compensation
 
. "Compensation Deferral" means that portion of Compensation as to which a Participant has made an annual irrevocable election to defer receipt pursuant to Article V or Section 6.1. A Participant's Compensation Deferral may consist of Base Salary Deferrals, Bonus Compensation Deferrals, Spillover Deferrals, or a combination thereof, as applicable to the Participant.
2.15
        
Compensation Deferral
 
. "Disability" means that a Participant either (i) is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, or (ii) by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, is receiving (and has received for at least three months) income replacement benefits under any Company-sponsored disability benefit plan. A Participant who has been determined to be eligible for Social Security disability benefits shall be presumed to have a Disability as defined herein.
2.16
        
Disability
 
. "Discretionary Credit" means any amount credited to a Participant's Account under Section 6.4.
2.17
        
Discretionary Credit
. "Effective Date" means the original effective date of the Plan, which is as of and contingent upon the Separation.
2.18
        
Effective Date
 
. "Eligible Employee" for all purposes under this Plan other than eligibility for a Company Credit under Section 6.3 includes any employee of the Company who is (i) a U.S. citizen or a resident alien permanently assigned to work in the United States, (ii) paid on the United States payroll (other than Puerto Rico), (iii) either (a) subject to the requirements of Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act, (b) included in career bands 1-3 of the Company's pay scale, or (c) included in career band 4 of the Company's pay scale and nominated by the Company for participation in this Plan, (iv) paid a Base Salary for a relevant Plan Year that exceeds the "highly compensated employee" dollar threshold under Code Section 414(q)(1)(B) for such year and (v) has management responsibility. Solely for purposes of determining eligibility for Company Credits under Section 6.3, "Eligible Employee" includes any employee of the Company who meets the requirements set forth in (i) and (ii) above and who, for a relevant Plan Year, is paid Compensation in excess of the limitation on includible compensation under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code. Notwithstanding the foregoing, employees eligible to participate in any "Non-U.S. Tyco Electronics Corporation Retirement Plan" shall not be Eligible Employees for purposes of the Plan. A "Non-U.S. Tyco Electronics Corporation Retirement Plan" is defined as any pension or retirement plan, program or scheme established outside the United States of America that is either sponsored by a non-US Tyco Electronics Corporation Affiliated Company or is mandated by a governmental body or under the terms of a bargaining agreement and shall include any termination or retirement indemnity program and the national social security arrangements in Italy, Portugal and Spain, but shall exclude national social security arrangements in any other country.
2.19
        
Eligible Employee
 
. "Enrollment and Payment Agreement" means the authorization form that an Eligible Employee files with the Plan Administrator to elect a Compensation Deferral under the Plan for a Plan Year, and/or to elect the timing and form of distribution for Company Credits or Discretionary Credits for a Plan Year. An Enrollment and Payment Agreement may be filed in any form so designated by the Plan Administrator, including electronically.
2.20
        
Enrollment and Payment Agreement
 
. "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
2.21
        
Exchange Act
 
. "Fiscal Year" means the Company's fiscal year, which is the 52- or 53-week period ending on the Friday nearest September 30 of each calendar year.
2.22
        
Fiscal Year
 
. "In-Service Payment" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.1.
2.23
        
In-Service Payment
 
. "Matching Credit" means an amount credited to a Participant's Account under Section 6.2.
2.24
        
Matching Credit
. "Maximum Matching Percentage" for any Plan Year means the maximum matching contribution percentage available under the RSIP for such Plan Year for an individual who has the same Years of Service as the Participant (disregarding any limit on the amount of matching contributions to the RSIP imposed as a result of the operation of the limitations in Section 401(a)(17), Section 402(g) or Section 415(c) of the Code).
2.25
        
Maximum Matching Percentage
 
. "Measurement Funds" means one or more of the independently established funds or indices that are identified by the Plan Administrator. These Measurement Funds are used solely to calculate the earnings that are credited to each Participant's Account(s) in accordance with Article VII below, and do not represent any beneficial interest on the part of the Participant in any asset or other property of the Company. The determination of the increase or decrease in the performance of each Measurement Fund shall be made by the Plan Administrator in its reasonable discretion. Measurement Funds may be replaced, new funds may be added, or both, from time to time in the discretion of the Plan Administrator; provided that if the Measurement Funds hereunder correspond with funds available for investment under the RSIP, then, unless the Plan Administrator otherwise determines in its discretion, any addition, removal or replacement of investment funds under the RSIP shall automatically result in a corresponding change to the Measurement Funds hereunder.
2.26
        
Measurement Funds
 
. "Participant" means any employee who satisfies the eligibility requirements and has an account set forth in Article IV or a former employee who has an Account that is not fully distributed. In the event of the death or incompetency of a Participant, the term means his or her personal representative or guardian.
2.27
        
Participant
 
. "Plan" means this Plan, entitled the Tyco Electronics Corporation Supplemental Savings and Retirement Plan, as amended from time to time hereafter.
2.28
        
Plan
 
. "Plan Administrator" means the Benefits Administrative Committee, appointed by the Board of Directors of Tyco Electronics Corporation to manage and administer the Plan (or, where the context so requires, any delegate of the Plan Administrator.)
2.29
        
Plan Administrator
 
. "Plan Year" means the 12 month period beginning on each January 1 and ending on the following December 31.
2.30
        
Plan Year
 
. "Responsible Company" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section 10.9.
2.31
        
Responsible Company
 
. "Retirement" means termination of Company employment (other than for Cause) (i) after attaining age 55 and (ii) with a combination of age and Years of Service at termination totaling at least 60.
2.32
        
Retirement
 
. "RSIP" means the Tyco Electronics Corporation Retirement Savings and Investment Plan (or its immediate predecessor or any successor plan if the context so indicates) applicable to a Participant.
2.33
        
RSIP
. "RSIP Election" means the percentage of the Participant's compensation that he or she has elected to contribute on a pre-tax basis to the RSIP for a Plan Year, determined at the beginning of such Plan Year.
2.34
        
RSIP Election
 
. "Separation" means a transaction whereby the public shareholders of Tyco International Ltd. will be issued stock dividends consisting of the common stock of Tyco Electronics Ltd. and Covidien Ltd., as described in Forms 10 filed with the SEC by Tyco Electronics Ltd. and Covidien Ltd. on January 18, 2007. As a result of the transaction, Covidien Ltd. and its underlying subsidiaries will no longer be an Affiliated Company with respect to Tyco International Ltd. The Separation occurred on June 29, 2007.
2.35
        
Separation
 
. "Spillover Deferrals" means Compensation Deferrals credited to the Account of a Participant as a result of an election made for a Plan Year by such Participant in accordance with the terms of Section 6.1.
2.36
        
Spillover Deferrals
 
. "Termination Date" means the last day of a Participant's active employment with the Company and all Affiliated Companies without regard to any compensation continuation arrangement, as determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion and shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of Treasury Regulations Section 1.409A-1(h)(1)(ii). A Participant who terminates active employment with the Company during a Plan Year, and thereafter resumes active employment with the Company or an Affiliated Company prior to the beginning of the next Plan Year, shall not be deemed to have had a Termination Date hereunder with respect to the first employment termination.
2.37
        
Termination Date
 
. "Termination Payment" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.1.
2.38
        
Termination Payment
 
  "TEL" means Tyco Electronics Ltd., a Bermuda corporation.
2.39
        
TEL
 
. "Tyco SSRP" means the Tyco Supplemental Savings and Retirement Plan in effect on the Separation.
2.40
        
Tyco SSRP
 
. "Year of Service" means a Year of Service as determined under the RSIP.
2.41
        
Year of Service
 
ARTICLE III Administration
 
. The Plan shall be administered by the Plan Administrator, which shall have full discretionary power and authority to interpret the Plan; to prescribe, amend and rescind any rules, forms and procedures as it deems necessary or appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan; and to make any other determinations, including factual determinations, and take such other actions as it deems necessary or advisable in carrying out its duties under the Plan.
3.1
          
Plan Administrator
ARTICLE IV Eligibility for Participation
 
. Any Eligible Employee who (i) elected to make Compensation Deferrals under Section 5.1 or 6.1 under the Tyco SSRP effective for the 2007 Plan Year or (ii) is entitled to a Company Credit or a Discretionary Credit for the Plan Year which contains the Effective Date shall be deemed a Participant as of the Effective Date. An individual who is not otherwise an Eligible Employee as of the Effective Date but who has an Account transferred to this Plan from the Tyco SSRP shall also be deemed a Participant as of the Effective Date. An individual shall remain a Participant until that individual has received full payment of all amounts credited to the Participant's Account.
4.1
          
Current Participants
 
. Any future Eligible Employee will be eligible to become a Participant for the first full pay period following the date on which he makes an initial election to participate or as soon as practicable thereafter (subject to any limitations set forth herein).
4.2
          
Future Employees
 
ARTICLE V Basic Deferral Participation
 
. An Eligible Employee may elect, by filing an Enrollment and Payment Agreement with the Plan Administrator or its designee, a Compensation Deferral with respect to (i) Base Salary payable in a Plan Year and (ii) Bonus Compensation earned for the Fiscal Year that ends within the Plan Year and payable after the close of such Fiscal Year. Enrollment and Payment Agreements for all such Compensation Deferrals for a Plan Year (or the Fiscal Year that ends in such Plan Year) must be filed with the Plan Administrator on or before the November 30 immediately preceding the first day of such Plan Year unless otherwise permitted by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion (but in such case, in no event later than the December 31 immediately preceding the first day of such Plan Year). An individual who first becomes an Eligible Employee in any Plan Year may file an initial partial-year Enrollment and Payment Agreement, no later than 30 days after first becoming an Eligible Employee, which shall be applicable to Base Salary payable for the remainder of such Plan Year (but only for pay periods following the filing of such election). An individual who first becomes an Eligible Employee on or after December 1 of any Plan Year but prior to December 31 of such Plan Year may file an initial Enrollment and Payment Agreement, no later than such December 31, which shall be applicable to Base Salary for the next Plan Year and/or Bonus Compensation earned for the Fiscal Year that ends within the next Plan Year and payable after the close of such Fiscal Year.
5.1
          
Election to Participate
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an Eligible Employee attempts to file an Enrollment and Payment Agreement election or take any other related action and is unable to do so due to administrative error, or if an Eligible Employee's Enrollment and Payment Agreement election is not appropriately processed due to administrative error, the Plan Administrator may, in its discretion, permit the error to be corrected by allowing
the Eligible Employee to make a new Enrollment and Payment Agreement election. Such election shall only be allowed to the extent permitted under Code Section 409A and the regulations and rulings promulgated thereunder.
 
. Pursuant to each Enrollment and Payment Agreement for a Plan Year a Participant shall irrevocably elect to defer as a whole percentage (i) up to 50% of his or her Base Salary for the applicable Plan Year (or remainder of the Plan Year, as the case may be); and/or (ii) up to 100% of his or her Bonus Compensation (net of required withholding) for the applicable Fiscal Year.
5.2
          
Amount of Deferral Election
 
. The Plan Administrator may change the minimum or maximum deferral percentages from time to time. Any such limits shall be communicated by the Plan Administrator prior to the due date for the Enrollment and Payment Agreement. Amounts deferred under this Plan will not constitute compensation for any Company-sponsored qualified retirement plan.
5.3
          
Deferral Limits
 
. A Participant's Enrollment and Payment Agreement as to a Compensation Deferral shall remain in effect only for the immediately succeeding Plan or Fiscal Year (or the remainder of the current year, as applicable), unless otherwise allowed by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion.
5.4
          
Period of Commitment
 
. If the Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, determines that the Participant no longer qualifies as an Eligible Employee, the Participant's most recent Compensation Deferral shall terminate with respect to compensation earned after the effective date of such determination, and the employee shall thereafter be prohibited from making Compensation Deferrals unless otherwise determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion.
5.5
          
Change of Status
 
. Compensation Deferrals, and earnings credited thereon, shall be 100% vested at all times (subject to Section 10.12).
5.6
          
Vesting of Compensation Deferrals
 
ARTICLE VI Spillover Participation/Matching, Company and Discretionary Credits
 
. Any Eligible Employee may elect to make Spillover Deferrals for a Plan Year. Such election may be made by filing an Enrollment and Payment Agreement with the Plan Administrator on or before the November 30 immediately preceding the first day of such Plan Year unless otherwise permitted by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion (but in such case, in no event later than the December 31 immediately preceding the first day of such Plan Year). Such election shall be deemed an irrevocable commitment by such Participant to defer hereunder a percentage of his or her periodic Compensation equal to the Participant's RSIP Election for such Plan Year, with such deferrals commencing at the time the Participant's pretax RSIP contributions are suspended for the Plan Year as the result of the imposition of any limitation under applicable law or any procedure established by the Plan Administrator in accordance with applicable law and continuing for the remainder of the Plan Year; provided that a Participant who elects to make Spillover Deferrals will be deemed to have
6.1
          
Spillover Election
made a commitment to maintain his or her RSIP Election in effect for the entire Plan Year (up to the time of such suspension) without change.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an Eligible Employee attempts to file an Enrollment and Payment Agreement election or take any other related action and is unable to do so due to administrative error, or if an Eligible Employee's Enrollment and Payment Agreement election is not appropriately processed due to administrative error, the Plan Administrator may, in its discretion, permit the error to be corrected by allowing the Eligible Employee to make a new Enrollment and Payment Agreement election. Such election shall only be allowed to the extent permitted under Code Section 409A and the regulations and rulings promulgated thereunder.
 
. An Eligible Employee who has elected to make Compensation Deferrals for a Plan Year shall receive Matching Credits, equal to the Participant's Maximum Matching Percentage multiplied by (i) the dollar amount of the Participant's Compensation Deferrals under Section 5.1 for such Plan Year on Compensation up to the applicable annual dollar limitation set forth in Section 401(a)(17) of the Code, and (ii) the amount of Compensation for such Plan Year from which Spillover Deferrals (if any) are made under Section 6.1 (disregarding any such Compensation that exceeds the applicable annual dollar limitation set forth in Section 401(a)(17) of the Code). Matching Credits shall be credited to a Participant's Account at such time or times as may be determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion, but in no event less frequently than annually.
6.2
          
Matching Credits
 
. A Participant who is an Eligible Employee for purposes of this Section 6.3 for any Plan Year shall receive Company Credits for such Plan Year in an amount equal to the Participant's Maximum Matching Percentage for such Plan Year multiplied by the Participant's Compensation in excess of the annual dollar limitation set forth in Section 401(a)(17) of the Code for such Plan Year. Company Credits shall be credited to a Participant's Account at such time or times as may be determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion, but in no event less frequently than annually, as of the last day of a Plan Year. A Participant who has elected to make Compensation Deferrals for a Plan Year, and who receives a Company Credit for such Plan Year, shall have the portion of his or her Account attributable to such Company Credit, if vested, distributed as specified in his or her Enrollment and Payment Agreement for such Plan Year. A Participant who has not elected to make Compensation Deferrals for a Plan Year, but who receives a Company Credit for such Plan Year (and has not previously received any Company Credit under the Plan), shall file with the Plan Administrator an Enrollment and Payment Agreement as soon as practicable (but no later than 30 days) after becoming eligible for such Company Credit, electing the timing and form of payment of the portion of the Participant's Account attributable to such Company Credit, if vested. Such election shall be deemed to apply also to any Company Credit received in any future Plan Year for which the Participant does not have in effect an Enrollment and Payment Agreement. If such Participant does not file an Enrollment and Payment Agreement by the date specified by the Plan Administrator, he or she shall be deemed to have elected to have the portion of his or her Account attributable to such Company Credit, and each Company Credit received in a future Plan Year for which the
6.3
          
Company Credits
Participant does not have in effect an Enrollment and Payment Agreement, paid (if vested) as an In-Service Payment in a single lump sum in the fifth Plan Year following the Plan Year for which each such Company Credit was received.
 
. A Participant who is an Eligible Employee for any Plan Year may receive a Discretionary Credit for such Plan Year. Such credit shall be in such amount as may be determined by the Company in its sole discretion, and shall be credited to the Participant's Account at such time or times as may be determined by the Company in its sole discretion. A Participant who has elected to make Compensation Deferrals for a Plan Year, and who receives a Discretionary Credit for such Plan Year, shall have the portion of his or her Account attributable to such Discretionary Credit (if vested) distributed as specified in his or her Enrollment and Payment Agreement for such Plan Year. A Participant who has not elected to make Compensation Deferrals for a Plan Year, but who receives a Discretionary Credit for such Plan Year (and has not previously received any Discretionary Credit under the Plan), shall file with the Plan Administrator an Enrollment and Payment Agreement as soon as practicable (but no later than 30 days) after becoming eligible for such Discretionary Credit, electing the timing and form of payment of the portion of the Participant's Account attributable to such Discretionary Credit (if vested). Such election shall be deemed to apply also to any Discretionary Credit received in any future Plan Year for which the Participant does not have in effect an Enrollment and Payment Agreement. If such Participant does not file an Enrollment and Payment Agreement by the date specified by the Plan Administrator, he or she shall be deemed to have elected to have the portion of his or her Account attributable to such Discretionary Credit, and each Discretionary Credit received in a future Plan Year for which the Participant does not have in effect an Enrollment and Payment Agreement, paid (if vested) as an In-Service Payment in a single lump sum in the fifth Plan Year following the Plan Year for which each such Discretionary Credit was received.
6.4
          
Discretionary Credits
 
. The portion of a Participant's Account attributable to Matching Credits and Company Credits shall become 100% vested upon the completion of three Years of Service (subject to Section 10.12). The portion of a Participant's Account attributable to Matching Credits and Company Credits shall also become 100% vested (i) if his or her employment terminates by reason of his or her death, Disability or Retirement, or (ii) upon the occurrence of a Change of Control (subject in each case to Section 10.12). The portion of a Participant's Account attributable to Discretionary Credits shall become 100% vested upon the date and/or upon the occurrence of the event(s) specified by the Company in its sole discretion (subject to Section 10.12).
6.5
          
Vesting of Matching, Company and Discretionary Credits
 
ARTICLE VII Participant Account
 
. The Plan Administrator shall establish and maintain an Account with respect to each Participant's annual Compensation Deferrals, Matching Credits, Company Credits, and/or Discretionary Credits hereunder, as applicable, and amounts directly transferred from the Tyco SSRP as of the Effective
7.1
          
Establishment of Account
Date, if any, on behalf of such Participant. Compensation Deferrals pursuant to Section 5.1 and Spillover Deferrals pursuant to Section 6.1 shall be credited by the Plan Administrator to the Participant's Account as soon as practicable after the date on which such Compensation would otherwise have been paid, in accordance with the Participant's election. The Participant's Account shall be reduced by the amount of payments made to the Participant or the Participant's Beneficiary pursuant to this Plan and by any forfeitures.
 
. Participants must designate, on an Enrollment and Payment Agreement or by such other means as may be established by the Plan Administrator, the portion of the credits to their Account that shall be allocated among the various Measurement Funds. In default of such designation, credits to a Participant's Account shall be allocated to one or more default Measurement Funds as determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion. A Participant's Account shall be credited with all deemed earnings (or losses) generated by the Measurement Funds, as elected by the Participant, on each business day for the sole purpose of determining the amount of earnings to be credited or debited to such Account as if the designated balance of the Account had been invested in the applicable Measurement Fund. Notwithstanding that the rates of return credited to a Participant's Accounts are based upon the actual performance of the corresponding Measurement Funds, the Company shall not be obligated to invest any amount credited to a Participant's Account under this Plan in such Measurement Funds or in any other investment funds. Upon notice to the Plan Administrator in the manner it prescribes, a Participant may reallocate the Funds to which his or her Account is deemed to be allocated.
7.2
          
Earnings (or Losses) on Account
 
. The value of a Participant's Account as of any date shall equal the amounts theretofore credited to such Account, including any earnings (positive or negative) deemed to be earned on such Account in accordance with Section 7.2, less the amounts theretofore deducted from such Account.
7.3
          
Valuation of Account
 
. The Plan Administrator shall provide or make available to each Participant (including electronically), not less frequently than quarterly, a statement in such form as the Plan Administrator deems desirable setting forth the balance standing to the credit of his or her Account.
7.4
          
Statement of Account
 
. Any payment made to or on behalf of a Participant from his or her Account in an amount which is less than the entire balance of his or her Account shall be made pro rata from each of the Measurement Funds to which such Account is then allocated.
7.5
          
Payments from Account
 
. If and to the extent required for the proper administration of the vesting or payments provisions of the Plan, the Plan Administrator may segregate a Participant's Account into subaccounts on the books and records of the Plan, all of which subaccounts shall, together, constitute the Participant's Account.
7.6
          
Separate Accounting
ARTICLE VIII Payments to Participants
 
. Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.3, 6.4, 8.3 or 8.4, any portion of the Participant's Account attributable to his or her Compensation Deferrals, vested Matching Credits, vested Company Credits or vested Discretionary Credits for a Plan Year shall be distributed as a payment to be made or to commence following the Participant's Termination Date ("Termination Payment") or as a payment to be made or to commence at a specified date, without reference to the Participant's termination of employment (an "In-Service Payment"). Termination Payments and In-Service Payments shall be made by one of the following methods, as elected by the Participant in the Enrollment and Payment Agreement filed with the Plan Administrator for such Plan Year: (i) one lump sum; or (ii) annual installments payable over a maximum of 15years. A Termination Payment shall be made, or shall commence, on or as soon as practicable after March 1 of the year following the year in which the Participant's Termination Date occurs. An In-Service Payment shall be made, or shall commence, on or as soon as practicable after March 1st of the payment year designated by the Participant in the applicable Enrollment and Payment Agreement, which year shall be no earlier than the fifth Plan Year following the Plan Year for which the initial filing of the Enrollment and Payment Agreement was made with respect to that In-Service Payment (provided, that if the Participant's employment terminates before the scheduled payment year for one or more In-Service Payments, and the Participant is not reemployed before the last day of the year in which such termination occurs, such payment shall instead be made, or shall commence, on or as soon as practicable after March 1 of the year following the year in which the Participant's Termination Date occurs).
8.1
          
Annual Election
 
. Subject to Section 10.20, a Participant may change the payment date and/or the form of an existing In-Service Payment election for a Plan Year by filing a new payment election, in the form specified by the Plan Administrator, at least 12 months prior to the original payment date (in the case of installment payments, the date of the first scheduled installment payment), provided that such new election delays the payment year by at least five years from the original payment year, and provided, further, that such change in election shall not be effective until 12 months from the date it is filed. No change in payment date or form of payment may be made with respect to a Termination Payment once elected. In addition, a Participant's reemployment following the commencement of installment payments shall not cause any suspension or interruption in such installment payments.
8.2
          
Change in Election
 
. Notwithstanding any election made under Section 8.1 or Section 8.2, if (i) the total value of the Participant's Account on the first day of the Plan Year following his or her Termination Date is less than $5000, or (ii) the Participant's termination is due to voluntary resignation (other than Retirement or Disability), then the Participant's Account shall be paid to the Participant in one lump sum on or as soon as practicable after March 1 of the year following the year in which the Participant's Termination Date occurs.
8.3
          
Cash-Out Payments
. Upon the death or Disability of a Participant, the Participant or the Participant's Beneficiary, as applicable, shall be paid the balance in his or her Account in the form of a lump sum payment, with such payment to be made as soon as practicable after the calendar quarter in which occurs such Participant's death or Disability. Such payment shall be in an amount equal to the value of the Participant's Account of the last day of the calendar quarter following the Participant's death or Disability, with the Measurement Funds being deemed to have been liquidated on that date to make the payment.
8.4
          
Death or Disability Benefit
 
. Any lump sum benefit under Sections 8.1, 8.2 or 8.3 shall be payable in an amount equal to the value of the Participant's Account (or relevant portion thereof) as of the December 31 preceding the relevant payment date, with the Measurement Funds being deemed to have been liquidated on that date to make the payment. The first annual installment payment in a series of installment payments shall be equal to (i) the value of the Participant's Account (or relevant portion thereof) as of the December 31 preceding the relevant payment date, with the Measurement Funds being deemed to have been liquidated on that date to make the payment, divided by (ii) the number of installment payments elected by the Participant. The remaining installments shall be paid in an amount equal to (a) the value of such Account (or relevant portion thereof) as of the December 31 preceding the relevant payment date, with the Measurement Funds being deemed to have been liquidated on that date to make the payment, divided by (b) the number of remaining unpaid installment payments.
8.5
          
Valuation of Payments
 
. In the event that the Plan Administrator, upon written request of a Participant, determines that the Participant has suffered an "unforeseeable emergency" within the meaning of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(ii), the Participant shall be paid from that portion of his or her Account resulting from Compensation Deferrals, as soon as practicable following such determination, an amount necessary to meet the emergency, afterdeduction of any and all taxes as may be required pursuant to Section 8.7 (but in no event to exceed the maximum permitted amount determined under Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(ii)).
8.6
          
Unforeseeable Emergency
 
. The Company may make such provisions and take such action as it may deem necessary or appropriate for the withholding of any taxes which the Company is required by any law or regulation of any governmental authority, whether federal, state or local, to withhold in connection with any benefits under the Plan, including, but not limited to, the withholding of appropriate sums from any amount otherwise payable to the Participant (or his or her Beneficiary). Each Participant, however, shall be responsible for the payment of all individual tax liabilities relating to any such benefits.
8.7
          
Withholding Taxes
 
. The full payment of the applicable benefit under this Article VIII shall completely discharge all obligations on the part of the Company to the Participant (and each Beneficiary) with respect to the operation of this Plan, and the Participant's (and Beneficiary's) rights under this Plan shall terminate.
8.8
          
Effect of Payment
ARTICLE IX Claims Procedures
 
. Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to the Plan shall be filed in writing with the Plan Administrator in accordance with the Plan Administrator's procedures. The Plan Administrator shall make all determinations concerning such claim. Any decision by the Plan Administrator denying such claim shall be in writing using language calculated to be understood by the Participant and shall be delivered to the Participant or Beneficiary filing the claim ("Claimant").
9.1
          
Filing a Claim
 
. Notice of a denial of benefits (other than Disability benefits) will be provided within 90 days of the Plan Administrator's receipt of the Claimant's claim for benefits. If the Plan Administrator determines that it needs additional time to review the claim, the Plan Administrator will provide the Claimant with a notice of the extension before the end of the initial 90-day period. The extension will not be more than 90 days from the end of the initial 90-day period and the notice of extension will explain the special circumstances that require the extension and the date by which the Plan Administrator expects to make a decision.
(a)
          
In General
 
. Notice of denial of Disability benefits will be provided within 45 days of the Plan Administrator's receipt of the Claimant's claim for Disability benefits (unless such period is extended, as provided below). If the Plan Administrator determines that it needs additional time to review the Disability claim, the 45-day period may be extended by the Plan Administrator for up to 30 days. The Plan Administrator will provide the Claimant with a notice of the extension before the end of the initial 45-day period. If the Plan Administrator determines that a decision cannot be made within the first 30-day extension due to matters beyond the control of the Plan Administrator, the period for making a determination may be further extended for an additional 30 days. If such an additional extension is necessary, the Plan Administrator shall notify the Claimant prior to the expiration of the initial 30-day extension. Any notice of extension shall indicate the circumstances necessitating the extension of time, the date by which the Plan Administrator expects to furnish a notice of decision, the standards on which entitlement to a benefit is based, the unresolved issues that prevent a decision on the claim, and any additional information needed to resolve those issues. A Claimant will be provided a minimum of 45 days to submit any necessary additional information to the Plan Administrator. In the event that a 30-day extension is necessary due to a Claimant's failure to submit information necessary to decide a claim, the period for furnishing a notice of decision shall be tolled from the date on which the notice of the extension is sent to the Claimant until the earlier of the date the Claimant responds to the request for additional information or the response deadline.
(b)
          
Disability Benefits
 
. If a claim for benefits is completely or partially denied, notice of such denial shall include a written explanation, using language calculated to be understood by the Participant.
(c)
          
Contents of Notice
The decision shall set forth (a) the specific reason or reasons for such denial, (b) specific reference(s) to the relevant provision(s) of this Plan on which such denial is based, (c) a description, where appropriate, as to how the Claimant can perfect the claim, including a description of any additional material or information necessary to complete the claim and why such material or information is necessary, (d) the appropriate information as to the steps to be taken if the Participant wishes to submit the claim for review, (e) the time limits for requesting a review under Section 9.2, and (f) a statement of the Claimant's right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse decision on review.
(i)
           
 
In the case of a complete or partial denial of a Disability benefit claim, the notice shall also provide a statement that the Plan Administrator will provide to the Claimant, upon request and free of charge, a copy of any internal rule, guideline, protocol, or other similar criterion that was relied upon in making the decision.
(ii)
          
 
. A Claimant whose claim has been completely or partially denied shall be entitled to appeal the claim denial by filing a written appeal with the Plan Administrator within the deadlines described below. A Claimant (or his or her authorized representative) who timely requests a review of the denied claim may review, upon request and free of charge, copies of all documents, records and other information relevant to the denial and may submit written comments, documents, records and other information relevant to the claim to the Plan Administrator. All written comments, documents, records, and other information shall be considered "relevant" if the information (a) was relied upon in making a benefits determination, (b) was submitted, considered or generated in the course of making a benefits decision regardless of whether it was relied upon to make the decision, or (c) demonstrates compliance with administrative processes and safeguards established for making benefit decisions. The Plan Administrator may, in its sole discretion and if it deems appropriate or necessary, decide to hold a hearing with respect to the claim appeal.
9.2
          
Appeal of Denied Claims
 
. Appeal of a denied benefits claim (other than a Disability benefits claim) must be filed in writing with the Plan Administrator no later than 60 days after receipt of the written notification of such claim denial. The Plan Administrator shall make its decision regarding the merits of the denied claim within 60 days following receipt of the appeal (or within 120 days after such receipt in a case where there are special circumstances requiring an extension of time for reviewing the appealed claim). If an extension of time for reviewing the appeal is required, notice of the extension shall be furnished to the Claimant prior to the commencement of the extension. The notice will indicate the special circumstances requiring the extension of time and the date by which the Plan Administrator expects to render the determination on review. The review will take into account comments, documents, records and other information submitted by the Claimant relating to the claim without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination.
(a)
          
In General
. Appeal of a denied Disability benefits claim must be filed in writing with the Plan Administrator no later than 180 days after receipt of the notification of such claim denial. The review shall be conducted by the Plan Administrator (exclusive of the person who made the initial adverse decision or such person's subordinate). In reviewing the appeal, the Plan Administrator shall (1) not afford deference to the initial denial of the claim, (2) consult a medical professional who has appropriate training and experience in the field of medicine relating to the Claimant's disability and who was neither consulted as part of the initial denial nor is the subordinate of such individual, and (3) identify the medical or vocational experts whose advice was obtained with respect to the initial benefit denial, without regard to whether the advice was relied upon in making the decision. The Plan Administrator shall make its decision regarding the merits of the denied claim within 45 days following receipt of the appeal or within 90 days after such receipt, in a case where there are special circumstances requiring an extension of time for reviewing the appealed claim. If an extension of time for reviewing the appeal is required because of special circumstances, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the Claimant prior to the commencement of the extension. The notice will indicate the special circumstances requiring the extension of time and the date by which the Plan Administrator expects to render the determination on review. Following its review of any additional information submitted by the Claimant, the Plan Administrator shall render a decision on its review of the denied claim.
(b)
          
Disability Benefits
 
. If a benefits claim is completely or partially denied on review, notice of such denial shall set forth the reasons for denial in language calculated to be understood by the Participant.
(c)
          
Contents of Notice
 
The decision on review shall set forth (a) the specific reason or reasons for the denial, (b) specific reference(s) to the relevant provision(s) of this Plan on which the denial is based, (c) a statement that the Claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all documents, records, or other information relevant (as defined above) to the Claimant's claim, and (d) a statement of the Claimant's right to bring an action under Section 502(a) of ERISA.
(i)
           
 
For the denial of a Disability benefit, the notice will also include a statement that the Plan Administrator will provide, upon request and free of charge:  (a) any internal rule, guideline, protocol or other similar criterion relied upon in making the decision, and (b) any medical opinion relied upon to make the decision.
(ii)
          
 
. A Claimant may not bring any legal action relating to a claim for benefits under the Plan unless and until the Claimant has followed the claims procedures under the Plan and exhausted his or her administrative remedies under such claims procedures.
9.3
          
Legal Action
. All interpretations, determinations and decisions of the Plan Administrator with respect to any claim shall be made in its sole discretion, and shall be final and conclusive.
9.4
          
Discretion of the Plan Administrator
 
ARTICLE X Miscellaneous
 
. Each Participant and Beneficiary shall cooperate with the Plan Administrator by furnishing any and all information requested by the Plan Administrator in order to facilitate the payment of benefits hereunder. If a Participant or Beneficiary refuses to cooperate with the Plan Administrator, the Company shall have no further obligation to the Participant or Beneficiary under the Plan, other than payment of the then-current balance of the Participant's Accounts in accordance with prior elections and subject to Section 10.12.
10.1
        
Protective Provisions
 
. In the event that the Plan Administrator is unable to locate a Participant or Beneficiary within two years following the date the Participant was to commence receiving payment, the entire amount allocated to the Participant's Account shall be forfeited. If, after such forfeiture, the Participant or Beneficiary later claims such benefit, such benefit shall be reinstated without interest or earnings from the date payment was to commence pursuant to Article VIII.
10.2
        
Inability to Locate Participant or Beneficiary
 
. Each Participant may designate in writing a Beneficiary or Beneficiaries (which Beneficiary may be an entity other than a natural person if approved by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion) to receive any payments which may be made under the Plan following the Participant's death. No Beneficiary designation shall become effective until it is in writing and it is filed with the Plan Administrator. A Beneficiary designation under the Plan may be separate from all other retirement-type plans sponsored by the Company. Such designation may be changed or canceled by the Participant at any time without the consent of any such Beneficiary. Any such designation, change or cancellation must be made in a form approved by the Plan Administrator and shall not be effective until received by the Plan Administrator or its designee. If no Beneficiary has been named, or the designated Beneficiary or Beneficiaries have predeceased the Participant, the Beneficiary shall be the Participant's estate. If a Participant designates more than one Beneficiary, the interests of such Beneficiaries shall be paid in equal shares, unless the Participant has specifically designated otherwise.
10.3
        
Designation of Beneficiary
 
. Neither the establishment of the Plan, nor any modification thereof, nor the creation of any fund, trust or account, nor the payment of any benefits shall be construed as giving any Participant, or any person whosoever, the right to be retained in the service of the Company, and all Participants and other employees shall remain subject to discharge to the same extent as if the Plan had never been adopted.
10.4
        
No Contract of Employment
. Nothing contained in the Plan shall be construed to prevent the Company from taking any action which is deemed by it to be appropriate or in its best interest. No Participant, Beneficiary, or other person shall have any claim against the Company as a result of such action.
10.5
        
No Limitation on Company Actions
 
. If a Participant becomes entitled to a payment of benefits under the Plan, and if at such time the Participant has outstanding any debt, obligation, or other liability representing an amount owing to the Company, then the Company may offset such amount owed to it against the amount of benefits otherwise distributable. Such determination shall be made by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion.
10.6
        
Obligations to Company
 
. Neither the Company nor any director, officer or employee of the Company shall be responsible or liable in any manner to any Participant, Beneficiary or any person claiming through them for any benefit or action taken or omitted in connection with the granting of benefits, the continuation of benefits, or the interpretation and administration of this Plan.
10.7
        
No Liability for Action or Omission
 
. Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, all amounts payable hereunder shall be paid only to the person or persons designated by the Plan and not to any other person or corporation. No part of a Participant's Account shall be liable for the debts, contracts, or engagements of any Participant, or his or her Beneficiary or successors in interest, nor shall such accounts of a Participant be subject to execution by levy, attachment, or garnishment or by any other legal or equitable proceeding, nor shall any such person have any right to alienate, anticipate, commute, pledge, encumber, or assign any benefits or payments hereunder in any manner whatsoever. If any Participant, Beneficiary or successor in interest is adjudicated bankrupt or purports to anticipate, alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber or charge any payment from the Plan, voluntarily or involuntarily, the Plan Administrator, in its discretion, may cancel such payment (or any part thereof) to or for the benefit of such Participant, Beneficiary or successor in interest in such manner as the Plan Administrator shall direct. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all or a portion of a Participant's Account may be awarded to an "alternate payee" (within the meaning of Section 206(d)(3)(K) of ERISA) if and to the extent so provided in a judgment, decree or order that, in the Committee's sole discretion, would meet the applicable requirements for qualification as a "qualified domestic relations order" (within the meaning of Section 206(d)(3)(B)(i) of ERISA) if the Plan were subject to the provisions of Section 206(d) of ERISA.
10.8
        
Nonalienation of Benefits
 
. The obligation to pay or provide for payment of a benefit hereunder to any Participant or his or her Beneficiary shall, at all times, be the sole and exclusive liability and responsibility of the company that employed the Participant immediately prior to the event giving rise to a payment obligation (the "Responsible Company"). No other company or parent, affiliated, subsidiary or associated company shall be liable or responsible for such payment, and nothing in this Plan shall be construed as creating or imposing any joint or shared liability for any such payment (other than the TEL guarantee set forth in Section 10.10 below). The fact that a
10.9
        
Liability for Benefit Payments
company or a parent, affiliated, subsidiary or associated company other than the Responsible Company actually makes one or more payments to a Participant or his or her Beneficiary shall not be deemed a waiver of this provision; rather, any such payment shall be deemed to have been made on behalf of and for the account of the Responsible Company.
 
. TEL guarantees the payment by the Responsible Company (as defined in Section 10.9) of any benefits provided for or contemplated under this Plan which either (i) the Responsible Company concedes are due and owing to a Participant or Beneficiary or (ii) are finally determined to be due and owing to a Participant or Beneficiary, but which in either case the Responsible Company fails to pay.
10.10
      
TEL Guarantee
 
. The Plan is intended to constitute an "unfunded" deferred and supplemental retirement compensation plan for Participants, with all benefits payable hereunder constituting an unfunded contractual payment obligation of the Company. Nothing contained in the Plan, and no action taken pursuant to the Plan, shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind. The Company shall reflect on its books the Participants' interests hereunder, but no Participant or any other person shall under any circumstances acquire any property interest in any specific assets of the Company. Nothing contained in this Plan and no action taken pursuant hereto shall create or be construed to create a fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Participant or other person. A Participant's right to receive payments under the Plan shall be no greater than the right of an unsecured general creditor of the Company. Except to the extent that the Company determines that a "rabbi" trust may be established in connection with the Plan, all payments shall be made from the general funds of the Company, and no special or separate fund shall be established and no segregation of assets shall be made to assure payment. The Company's obligations under this Plan are not assignable or transferable except to (i) any corporation or partnership which acquires all or substantially all of the Company's assets or (ii) any corporation or partnership into which the Company may be merged or consolidated. The provisions of the Plan shall inure to the benefit of each Participant and the Participant's Beneficiaries, heirs, executors, administrators or successors in interest.
10.11
      
Unfunded Status of Plan
 
. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, if a Participant's employment is terminated for Cause, or if the Plan Administrator determines that a Participant whose employment terminates for any other reason had engaged in conduct prior to his or her termination which would have constituted Cause, then the Plan Administrator may determine in its sole discretion that such Participant's Account under the Plan shall be forfeited and shall not be payable hereunder.
10.12
      
Forfeiture for Cause
 
. This Plan shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania to the extent not superseded by federal law, without reference to the principles of conflict of laws.
10.13
      
Governing Law
 
. If any provision of this Plan shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other
10.14
      
Severability of Provisions
provisions hereof, and this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such provisions had not been included.
 
. The headings and captions herein are provided for reference and convenience only, shall not be considered part of the Plan, and shall not be employed in the construction of the Plan.
10.15
      
Headings and Captions
 
. All pronouns and any variations thereof shall be deemed to refer to the masculine, feminine, or neuter, as the identity of the person or persons may require. As the context may require, the singular may read as the plural and the plural as the singular.
10.16
      
Gender, Singular and Plural
 
. Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to the Plan Administrator under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand delivered, or sent by registered or certified mail, to the Plan Administrator, Tyco Electronics Corporation Supplemental Savings and Retirement Plan, c/o Tyco Electronics Corporation HR Benefits, 1050 Westlakes Drive, Berwyn, PA 19312 or to such other person or entity as the Plan Administrator may designate from time to time. Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery, or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark on the receipt for registration or certification.
10.17
      
Notice
 
. The Plan may be amended, suspended, or terminated at any time by the Company in its sole discretion; provided, however, that no such amendment, suspension or termination shall result in any reduction in the value of a Participant's Account determined as of the effective date of such amendment. In addition, the Plan, and/or the terms of any election made hereunder, may be amended at any time and in any respect by the Company or by the Plan Administrator if and to the extent recommended by counsel in order to conform to the requirements of Code Section 409A and regulations thereunder or to any other Code Section or regulation that bears on the tax-deferred character of the benefits provided hereunder or to maintain the tax-qualified status of the RSIP. In the event of any suspension or termination of the Plan, payment of Participants' Accounts shall be made under and in accordance with the terms of the Plan and the applicable elections (except that the Plan Administrator may determine, in its sole discretion, to accelerate payments to all Participants if and to the extent that such acceleration is permitted under Code Section 409A and regulations thereunder).
10.18
      
Amendment and Termination
 
. Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, in the case of any Participant who is a "specified employee" within the meaning of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i), no distribution under this Plan may be made, or may commence, before the date which is six months after the date of such Participant's "separation from service" within the meaning of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) (or, if earlier, the date of the Participant's death).
10.19
      
Delay of Payment for Specified Employees
 
. To the extent permitted under the provisions of Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1, A-19(c) and subsequent related guidance, the Company may, in its sole discretion, permit a
10.20
      
Special Rule Regarding Election Changes in 2005, 2006 and 2007
Participant to modify an existing election with respect to the timing and form of payment of the Participant's Account hereunder without regard to the limitations set forth in Section 8.2, so long as: (i) such modification is made on or before December 31, 2007 (or, in the case of any amount that would have been payable in 2007, December 31, 2006, or, in the case of any amount that would have been payable in 2006, December 31, 2005), and (ii) such modified election is consistent with the provisions of Sections 8.1 and 10.19 hereof.


