FILE:TEL/TEL-8K-20080310072536.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
        Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a 12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a 12)
 
o
Pre commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d 2 (b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR  240.14d 2 (b))
 
o
Pre commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e 4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e 4(c))
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
At the Company's Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on March 10, 2008, the Company's Chief Executive Officer, Tom Lynch, will deliver the presentation attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
               
(d)           Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Please consult the inside back cover of your 2007 Annual Report for important information regarding Tyco Electronics' use, during this meeting, of Forward Looking Statements and references to certain non-GAAP measures, including "organic sales growth," "adjusted operating income," and "free cash flow."
 
Statements made during today's presentations may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainty and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance or achievements.  All statements that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "plan," and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements.  The forward-looking statements in this presentation may include statements addressing the following subjects:  future financial condition and operating results.  Economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting Tyco Electronics' businesses are examples of factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements.  In addition, Tyco Electronics' historical combined financial information is not necessarily representative of the results it would have achieved as an independent, publicly-traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of its future results.  Tyco Electronics has no intention and is under no obligation to update or alter (and expressly disclaims any such intention or obligation to do so) its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent required by law.  More detailed information about these and other factors is set forth in Tyco Electronics' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2007 and Tyco Electronics' Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended December 28, 2007.


