FILE:TEL/TEL-8K-20080118175411.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
        Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a 12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a 12)
o
Pre commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d 2 (b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d 2 (b))
o
Pre commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e 4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e 4(c))
ITEM 5.02    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
        On January 15, 2008, Tyco Electronics Ltd. (the "Company") entered into a consulting agreement (the "Agreement") with Dr. Juergen Gromer. Dr. Gromer was employed as President of the Company until his retirement on December 31, 2007. Dr. Gromer is currently a non-employee director of the Company. Under the terms of the Agreement, which is effective from January 15, 2008 through December 31, 2008, Dr. Gromer will make himself reasonably available to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company to provide assistance at client meetings, industry trade shows and such other customer relationship activities as the Chief Executive Officer deems necessary and appropriate. As remuneration for his services, the Company will pay Dr. Gromer a monthly consulting fee equal to EUR 11,340 (USD $16,667) and will reimburse Dr. Gromer for all reasonable out-of pocket travel and other expenses incurred in connection with his performance of services under the Agreement.
        Additionally, on January 15, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company awarded Dr. Gromer 4,800 Company deferred stock units ("DSUs") under the terms of the Tyco Electronics Ltd. 2007 Stock and Incentive Plan, as a result of Dr. Gromer becoming a non-employee director upon his retirement from the Company. The DSUs vested immediately on the grant date, will not be redeemable until Dr. Gromer's directorship terminates, and will be credited with dividend equivalents at the same time and rate that any cash or stock dividend is paid to holders of the Company's common shares.
ITEM 9.01    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(d)
Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 10.1
January 15, 2008
Dr. Juergen Gromer Im Tiefen Weg 44 64625 Bensheim Federal Republic of Germany
Re:
Consulting Agreement
Dear Juergen:
        Tyco Electronics Ltd. (the "Company") would like to retain your services on a consulting basis after your retirement from active employment on December 31, 2007. The consulting arrangement will be in addition to your role with the Company as a non-employee director. You and I have discussed the nature of the consulting arrangement and the purpose of this letter agreement is to document our understanding.
        . The consulting arrangement will begin on January 15, 2008 and end on December 31, 2008.
Term
        Either you or the Company may terminate the arrangement at any time on sixty (60) days' written notice to the other party. However, either party may immediately terminate the arrangement if the other party is in material breach of its obligations under this agreement and such party has failed to remedy the breach within a reasonable period after receiving notice from the terminating party.
        . During the term of this arrangement, you will make yourself available to me on a reasonable basis to provide assistance at client meetings, industry trade shows and such other customer relationship activities as I deem necessary and appropriate.
Services
        While performing your services under this agreement, you will be acting as an independent contractor and you will not hold yourself out as an officer, employee, agent, or principal of the Company. You also acknowledge that, as a result of the services provided under this agreement, you will not be entitled to, nor shall you make any claim for, any benefits afforded to Company's employees including, without limitation, workers' compensation, disability insurance, stock options, pension benefits, vacation or sick pay.
        . As remuneration for your services, we will pay you a monthly consulting fee equal to EUR11,340. The Company will reimburse you for all reasonable out-of-pocket travel and other expenses incurred in connection with your performance of the services hereunder. Travel and other expenses will be reimbursed in accordance with the Company's Travel Expense Reimbursement Policy.
Consulting Fees
        You will be directly responsible for all costs of your self-employment, including without limitation any federal, local or social tax payments due as a result of the remuneration paid to you hereunder.
        . You and the Company acknowledge that, effective January 1, 2008, you will become a non-employee director of the Company and you will be entitled to remuneration for such services. In addition, you and the Company are parties to a Retirement and Separation Agreement dated April 11, 2007 (the "Separation Agreement") under which you are entitled to receive various payments and benefits, and you may also be entitled to receive benefits under Company benefit plans arrangements on account of your employment with the Company prior to January 1, 2008. Nothing in this Agreement is intended to supersede or affect your rights or obligations as a non-employee director of the Company, or your rights or obligations under the Separation Agreement or any Company benefit plan or arrangement.
Effect of Other Agreements
        . The terms of your consulting arrangement, as reflected in this Agreement, are subject to the approval of the Board of Directors of the Company. This Agreement has no force or effect until approved by the Board.
Board Approval
        . This agreement will be governed by Bermuda law.
Governing Law
        If the terms and conditions of this agreement are acceptable to you, please countersign the agreement where noted below and return one original copy to Jane.
Regards,
/s/ Thomas J. Lynch
Thomas J. Lynch Chief Executive Officer Tyco Electronics Ltd.
Accepted this 15th day of January, 2008.


