FILE:TEL/TEL-8K-20080904123544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.05             COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH EXIT OR DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES
 
On September 4, 2008, Tyco Electronics Ltd. (the "Company") announced its intent to initiate a restructuring
to consolidate production of its automotive products in key manufacturing sites throughout Eastern and Western Europe
. This initiative is part of the simplification of the Company's global manufacturing footprint, including the exit of certain manufacturing operations and the migration of certain facilities and product lines to lower cost countries.
The proposed changes, which are subject to consultation with several works councils, would involve three automotive plant closures and restructuring of operations at several facilities in Spain and France, and would impact approximately 850 employees.
 
 
Based on current foreign exchange rates, the Company estimates that charges associated with the European automotive restructuring plan will be approximately $155 million, with an expected completion target within 15 months. The charges are primarily comprised of employee related termination benefits of approximately $125 million and other costs of $10 million that will result in future cash expenditures.  In addition, the Company expects to record non-cash charges of approximately $20 million primarily related to inventory and fixed assets.  The Company expects to incur total restructuring related charges of approximately $135 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 ending September 26, 2008. The initiation of the European automotive restructuring plan in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 will increase the Company's previously announced fiscal 2008 restructuring charges by approximately $70 million, from approximately $130 million to approximately $200 million in fiscal 2008.
 
ITEM 7.01             REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the Company's press release dated September 4, 2008 announcing the European automotive restructuring plan, which is incorporated in this Item 7.01 by reference. The press release also updates the Company's guidance for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 as a result of the restructuring charges described in Item 2.05. The information in this Item 7.01 is being furnished pursuant to Regulation FD.
 
ITEM 9.01             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
PEMBROKE, Bermuda  Sept. 4, 2008  Tyco Electronics Ltd. (NYSE: TEL; BSX: TEL) today announced its intent to initiate a restructuring to consolidate production of its automotive products in key manufacturing sites throughout Eastern and Western Europe.  The proposed changes, which are subject to consultation with several local works councils and the European Works Council, would involve three automotive plant closures and restructuring of operations at several facilities in Spain and France, and would impact approximately 850 employees.
 
According to Tyco Electronics Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Tom Lynch, "These actions are the next steps of the broader strategic initiative announced last year to streamline our operations and improve our productivity in all areas of our business."
 
Based on current foreign exchange rates, the company estimates that charges associated with the European automotive restructuring plan will be approximately $155 million, with an expected completion target within 15 months.  In the fiscal fourth quarter, the company now expects restructuring-related costs of approximately $135 million, or $0.27 per share.  This compares to prior guidance of $67 million, or $0.09 per share for the quarter.  As a result, the company now expects GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations of $0.38 to $0.40 for the quarter.  On an adjusted basis, the company continues
 
to expect EPS from continuing operations of $0.65 to $0.67 for the quarter.  As previously disclosed, the company expects an average payback of approximately three years on costs associated with its overall manufacturing footprint simplification program.
 
ABOUT TYCO ELECTRONICS
 
Tyco Electronics Ltd. is a leading global provider of engineered electronic components, network solutions, undersea telecommunication systems and wireless systems, with 2007 sales of $13.0 billion to customers in more than 150 countries.  We design, manufacture and market products for customers in industries from automotive, appliance and aerospace and defense to telecommunications, computers and consumer electronics.  With over 7,000 engineers and worldwide manufacturing, sales and customer service capabilities, Tyco Electronics' commitment is our customers' advantage.  More information on Tyco Electronics can be found at .
www.tycoelectronics.com
 
NON-GAAP MEASURE
 
"Adjusted EPS (earnings per share)" is a non-GAAP measure and should not be considered a replacement for GAAP (
generally accepted accounting principles)
results. 
Adjusted EPS reflects earnings per share from continuing operations before unusual items, including
costs related to legal settlements,
restructuring costs, loss on retirement of debt
and other income or charges ("Adjusted Earnings Per Share")
. The company presents Adjusted Earnings Per Share because we believe that it is appropriate for investors to consider results excluding these items in addition to our results in accordance with GAAP. We believe such a measure provides a picture of our results that is more comparable among periods since it excludes the impact of unusual items, which may recur occasionally, but tend to be irregular as to timing, thereby making comparisons between periods more difficult. This limitation is best addressed by using Adjusted Earnings Per Share in combination with earnings per share (the most comparable GAAP measure) in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease on reported results.
 
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainty and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance or achievements. All statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "plan," and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this release include statements addressing the following subjects: future financial condition, restructuring plans and operating results. Economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting Tyco Electronics' businesses are examples of factors, among others, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements.  Tyco Electronics has no intention and is under no obligation to update or alter (and expressly disclaims any such intention or obligation to do so) its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent required by law. 
More detailed information about these and other factors is set forth in Tyco Electronics' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 2007,
as retrospectively adjusted to reflect the Radio Frequency Components and Subsystem and Automotive Sensors businesses as discontinued operations in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 27, 2008,
and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended December 28, 2007, March 28, 2008 and June 27, 2008, as well as in current reports on Form 8-K filed by Tyco Electronics
.
 
 


