FILE:TEL/TEL-8K-20090715104033.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
x
 
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
              
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
              
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
              
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
ITEM 2.02
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
                                      
 
The information disclosed in Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is furnished and incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02.  The financial information referred to therein is furnished as Exhibit 99.1, Exhibit 99.2, and Exhibit 99.3 to this report and incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02.
 
ITEM 7.01
REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
                                      
 
On April 16, 2009, Tyco Electronics Ltd. (the "Company") entered into a definitive agreement to sell its Wireless Systems business. On May 29, 2009, the Company completed the sale for $675 million in cash, subject to a final working capital adjustment. The Wireless Systems business meets the held for sale and discontinued operation reporting criteria and will be included in discontinued operations in the third quarter of fiscal 2009.  The Company has reclassified amounts previously reported to reflect this business in discontinued operations in all periods presented.  Prior to reclassification to held for sale, this business was reported in the Company's Wireless Systems segment.
 
The Company has reclassified certain expenses on its Condensed Consolidated and Combined Statements of Operations. Research, development, and engineering expenses, which were previously classified as cost of sales, are separately presented.  Intangible asset amortization expense has been reclassified from selling, general, and administrative expenses to cost of sales.  Also, impairment of long-lived assets has been reclassified from impairment of goodwill and long-lived assets to restructuring and other charges, net.  The reclassifications had no impact on previously reported income (loss) from operations, net income (loss), or earnings (loss) per share. All prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
 
The unaudited financial information furnished with this report and incorporated by reference include the consolidated and combined statements of operations, the consolidated and combined segment results, and the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures of the Company for the fiscal quarters ended March 27, 2009, December 26, 2008, September 26, 2008, June 27, 2008, March 28, 2008, and December 28, 2007, and for the fiscal years ended September 26, 2008 and September 28, 2007.
 
Non-GAAP Measures
 
Certain of the financial information contains Non-GAAP (U.S. generally accepted accounting principles) financial measures, which are reconciled to GAAP financial measures contained therein.  The Non-GAAP measures used therein, which should not be considered replacements for GAAP results, include
"Adjusted Operating Income (Loss)," "Adjusted Operating Margin," "Adjusted Income Tax (Expense) Benefit," "Adjusted Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations," and "Adjusted Earnings (Loss) Per Share."
 
The Company has presented its operating income (loss) before unusual items including charges related to litigation settlements and reserves, restructuring charges, impairment charges and other income or charges ("Adjusted Operating Income (Loss)").  The Company utilizes Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) to assess segment level core operating performance and to provide insight to management in evaluating segment operating plan execution and underlying market conditions.  It is also a significant component in the Company's incentive compensation plans. Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) is a useful measure for investors because it better reflects the Company's underlying operating results, trends and the comparability of these results between periods.  The difference between Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) and operating income (loss) (the most comparable GAAP measure) consists of the impact of charges related to litigation settlements and reserves, restructuring charges, impairment charges and other income or charges that may mask the underlying operating results and/or business trends.  The limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or decrease the Company's reported operating income (loss). This limitation is best addressed by using Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) in combination with operating income (loss) (the most comparable GAAP measure) in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease on reported results.
 
The Company has presented its operating margin before unusual items including charges related to litigation settlements and reserves, restructuring charges, impairment charges and other income or charges ("Adjusted Operating Margin").  The Company presents and forecasts its Adjusted Operating Margin before unusual items to give investors a perspective on the underlying business results.  Because the Company cannot predict the amount and timing of such items and the associated charges or gains that will be recorded in the Company's financial statements, it is difficult to include the impact of those items in the forecast.
 
The Company has presented income tax (expense) benefit after adjusting for the tax effect of unusual items including charges related to restructuring, impairment and other income or charges ("Adjusted Income Tax (Expense) Benefit").  The Company presents Adjusted Income Tax (Expense) Benefit to provide investors further information regarding the tax effects of adjustments used in determining the non-GAAP financial measure Adjusted Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations (as defined below).  The difference between Adjusted Income Tax (Expense) Benefit and income tax (expense) benefit (the most comparable GAAP measure) is the tax effect of adjusting items.  The limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or decrease income tax (expense) benefit. This limitation is best addressed by using Adjusted Income Tax (Expense) Benefit in combination with income tax (expense) benefit in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease in reported amounts.
 
The Company has presented income (loss) from continuing operations before unusual items including charges related to litigation settlements and reserves, restructuring charges, impairment charges, tax sharing income related to the
adoption of FIN 48, other income or charges and, if applicable, related tax effects ("Adjusted Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations").  The Company presents Adjusted Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations as it believes that it is appropriate for investors to consider results excluding these items in addition to results in accordance with GAAP.  Adjusted Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations provides additional information regarding the Company's underlying operating results, trends and the comparability of these results between periods.  The difference between Adjusted Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations and income (loss) from continuing operations (the most comparable GAAP measure) consists of the impact of charges related to litigation settlements and reserves, restructuring charges, impairment charges, tax sharing income related to the adoption of FIN 48, other income or charges and, if applicable, related tax effects.  The limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or decrease the Company's reported results. This limitation is best addressed by using Adjusted Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations in combination with income (loss) from continuing operations (the most comparable GAAP measure) in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease in reported amounts.
 
The Company has presented adjusted diluted earnings (loss) per share, which is diluted earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations before unusual items, including charges related to litigation settlements and reserves, restructuring charges, impairment charges, tax sharing income related to the adoption of FIN 48 and other income or charges ("Adjusted Earnings (Loss) Per Share"). The Company presents Adjusted Earnings (Loss) Per Share because it believes that it is appropriate for investors to consider results excluding these items in addition to results in accordance with GAAP.  The Company believes such a measure provides a picture of its results that is more comparable among periods since it excludes the impact of unusual items, which may recur occasionally, but tend to be irregular as to timing, thereby making comparisons between periods more difficult. This limitation is best addressed by using Adjusted Earnings (Loss) Per Share in combination with diluted earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations (the most comparable GAAP measure) in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease on reported results.
 
ITEM 9.01
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
                                      
 
Exhibits
(d)
                                
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date: July 15, 2009

Exhibit 99.1

Exhibit 99.2
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
(1) Includes $189 million recorded in restructuring and other charges, net and a $2 million credit recorded in cost of sales.
(2) Includes $3,547 million recorded in impairment of goodwill.
(3) Consists of $135 million of costs related to pre-Separation securities litigation recorded in pre-Separation litigation charges, net.
(4) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this Form 8-K.
 
(1) Includes $77 million recorded in restructuring and other charges, net and $1 million recorded in cost of sales.
(2) Consists of $9 million of costs related to the settlement of pre-Separation securities litigation recorded in pre-Separation litigation charges, net and $8 million of costs related to a product liability matter from several years ago recorded in selling, general, and administrative expenses.
(3) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this Form 8-K.
 
(1) Includes $157 million recorded in restructuring and other charges, net and $8 million recorded in cost of sales.
(2) Consists of goodwill impairment of $103 million recorded in impairment of goodwill.
(3) Includes $22 million of income, of which $54 million of expense is recorded in other expense, net and $76 million of tax benefits are recorded in income tax expense, related to various tax matters, including a tax settlement.
(4) Consists of $8 million of income related to insurance recoveries on pre-Separation securities litigation recorded in pre-Separation litigation charges, net and $8 million of costs related to a customs settlement recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses.
(5) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this Form 8-K.
 
(1) Includes $16 million recorded in restructuring and other charges, net.
(2) Consists of $7 million of net costs related to the settlement of pre-Separation securities litigation recorded in pre-Separation litigation charges, net.
(3) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this Form 8-K.
 
(1) Includes $25 million recorded in restructuring and other charges, net and $1 million recorded in cost of sales.
(2) Consists of a $36 million gain on the sale of real estate recorded in selling, general, and administrative expenses and $23 million of costs related to the settlement of pre-Separation securities litigation recorded in pre-Separation litigation charges, net.
(3) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this Form 8-K.
 
(1) Includes $21 million recorded in restructuring and other charges, net.
(2) In connection with the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48, the Company recorded income of $572 million in other income, net pursuant to its Tax Sharing Agreement with Tyco International and Covidien.
"Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109,"
(3) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this Form 8-K.
 
(1) Includes $219 million recorded in restructuring and other charges, net and $9 million recorded in cost of sales.
(2) Consists of goodwill impairment of $103 million recorded in impairment of goodwill.
(3) In connection with the adoption of FIN 48, the Company recorded income of $545 million in other income, net pursuant to its Tax Sharing Agreement with Tyco International and Covidien.   The Company also recorded $49 million of income, of which $27 million of expense is recorded in other income, net and $76 million of tax benefits are recorded in income tax expense, related to various tax matters, including a tax settlement.
(4) Consists of a $36 million gain on the sale of real estate recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses, $8 million of costs related to a customs settlement, also recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses, and $22 million of net costs related to the settlement of pre-Separation securities litigation recorded in pre-Separation litigation charges, net.
(5) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this Form 8-K.
 
(1) Includes $44 million of separation costs, primarily related to employee costs, recorded in separation costs and $41 million of costs, related to building separate company functions that did not exist in the prior year, recorded in selling, general, and administrative expenses.
(2) Includes $97 million of net restructuring and other charges of which $92 million is recorded in restructuring and other charges, net and $5 million is recorded in cost of sales. Also includes $3 million of restructuring related moving costs recorded in cost of goods sold.
(3) Consists of $887 million of net costs related to pre-Separation securities litigation recorded in pre-Separation litigation charges, net and a $232 million loss on retirement of debt recorded in other expense, net.
(4) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this Form 8-K.
(5) GAAP diluted shares excludes 3 million of non-vested restricted share awards and non-vested options as the inclusion of these securities would have been anti-dilutive.   Such amounts are included in
the calculation of adjusted (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share from continuing operations.


