FILE:TEL/TEL-8K-20090625151909.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 3.03.    MATERIAL MODIFICATIONS TO RIGHTS OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
        Effective June 25, 2009, Tyco Electronics Ltd. (the "Company") discontinued its existence as a Bermuda company as provided in Section 132G of The Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda and, according to article 161 of the Swiss Federal Code on International Private Law, continued its existence under articles 620 et seq. of the Swiss Code of Obligations as a Swiss company. The rights of holders of the Company's registered shares, par value CHF 2.60 per share, are now governed by the Company's Swiss articles of association and Swiss organizational regulations, each of which is described in the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4/A (the "Form S-4"), which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 1, 2009 (No. 333-156927). The sections of the Form S-4 entitled "Description of Our Share Capital After the Swiss Continuation," "Comparison of Shareholder Rights Before and After the Swiss Continuation," "Effects of the Swiss Continuation" and "Material Tax Considerations" are hereby incorporated by reference and are included in Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K. The Swiss articles of association and the Swiss organizational regulations, which became effective June 25, 2009, are attached hereto as Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference. The Company's Swiss articles of association contain the numbers that were intentionally left blank in the Form S-4 and which were calculated based on the number of registered shares issued and outstanding and the determination of the new par value in Swiss francs, as further described in the Form S-4.
ITEM 5.02.    DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
(e)
Amendment and Restatement of the Tyco Electronics Ltd. 2007 Stock and Incentive Plan
        On June 22, 2009, the shareholders of the Company, at the 2009 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, approved an amendment and restatement of the Company's 2007 Stock and Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). The Plan was primarily approved by the shareholders to ensure that certain payments made under the Plan will continue to qualify as "performance-based" compensation under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). In addition, the Plan was principally amended as follows:
 - 
Modification of the retirement provisions applicable to awards under the Plan to revise the definition of "retirement" and to provide that a participant who is retirement eligible will vest in his/her equity awards only on a pro rata basis upon termination of employment.
 - 
Clarification that dividend equivalents, typically credited to restricted stock unit or deferred stock unit awards, will not be awarded in connection with stock option or stock appreciation rights awards.
 - 
Clarification that the term of stock options and stock appreciation rights will not exceed ten years, unless necessary to comply with the laws of a foreign jurisdiction or to preserve the tax advantaged status of the award in a foreign jurisdiction.
 - 
Clarification that the prohibition on repricing of underwater stock options includes, among other types of repricings, a cash payment in exchange for the underwater options.
 - 
Clarification that outside directors may be awarded deferred stock units, fully vested shares or stock options, as determined by the Board of Directors, and a modification to the Plan that allows deferred stock units to be awarded at any time.
 - 
Modification of the Plan to provide that the vesting period of a time-based full value share award will be no less than three years, except that the Management Development and Compensation Committee (the "Committee") may award up to 10% of the shares authorized for
issuance under the Plan with vesting periods of less than three years in such circumstances as deemed appropriate by the Committee.
 - 
Clarification that the number of shares available for awards under the Plan will be decreased by the total number of shares equal in value to the total value of a stock appreciation right on the day of its settlement; clarification that forfeited or cancelled full value share awards will be added back to the available shares authorized for issuance at the same rate (1.8) at which they were counted when originally awarded.
 - 
Modification of the Plan to eliminate the provision that allowed shares withheld as payment of the exercise price of a stock option or in satisfaction of tax withholding obligations to be added back to the shares available for issuance under the Plan.
 - 
Modifications and clarifications to the Plan to assure that the Plan and awards made under the Plan comply with Section 409A of the Code.
        For additional information regarding approval of the Plan, see the Proxy Statement for the Annual General Meeting filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 1, 2009. The foregoing summary is not intended to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Plan, attached as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 5.03.    AMENDMENTS TO THE ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OR BYLAWS, CHANGE IN FISCAL YEAR.
        The information included in Item 3.03 above is hereby incorporated by reference.
ITEM 7.01.    REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
        In connection with the Company's continuance to Switzerland and the approval by the Company's shareholders on June 22, 2009 of "Proposal No. 3Approval of an Increase in Our Registered Share Capital," as described in the Form S-4, the Company prepared a special unaudited unconsolidated interim balance sheet of Tyco Electronics Ltd. stated in U.S. dollars and Swiss francs, that included certain adjustments to U.S. GAAP accounts for Swiss statutory and tax purposes, to record:
 - 
intercompany notes payable in the amount of US$2.1 billion;
 - 
the consolidation of the issued shares of the Company by way of a 1-for-12 reverse share split (the "consolidation"), thereby increasing the par value of each issued share from US$0.20 to US$2.40;
 - 
subsequent to the consolidation, the issuance of 11 fully paid bonus shares per issued share of the Company, and the capitalization of US$1.1 billion in contributed surplus to fully pay up the par value of the bonus shares;
 - 
the elimination of authorized preferred shares (of which none were issued);
 - 
the cancellation of 32,052,113 common shares held in treasury;
 - 
a special reserve of US$371 million representing the cost of 10,000,000 common shares held in treasury established out of contributed surplus; and
 - 
a freely distributable reserves account of US$9.3 billion established out of contributed surplus (which will be treated as contributed surplus for Swiss tax purposes).
        The special unaudited unconsolidated interim balance sheet of Tyco Electronics Ltd. is furnished under this Item 7.01 as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated in this Item 7.01 by reference. This special balance sheet is being used to establish the opening balance sheet for Swiss statutory and tax requirements and includes certain non-U.S. GAAP adjustments which are appropriate for Swiss
statutory and tax requirements and which are not necessary or required for, and will not be included in, our balance sheet prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
ITEM 8.01.    OTHER EVENTS.
        Upon the effectiveness of the continuance in Switzerland, the Company's CUSIP number changed to H8912P106.
ITEM 9.01.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)
Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
QuickLinks
ITEM 3.03. MATERIAL MODIFICATIONS TO RIGHTS OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
ITEM 5.02. DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS.
ITEM 5.03. AMENDMENTS TO THE ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OR BYLAWS, CHANGE IN FISCAL YEAR.
ITEM 7.01. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
ITEM 8.01. OTHER EVENTS.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
SIGNATURES

EXHIBIT 3.1

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
EXHIBIT 3.2
A    SCOPE AND BASIS
1
These Organizational Regulations ("Organizational Regulations"; each section of these Organizational Regulations, a "Section") are enacted by the board of directors of Tyco Electronics Ltd. (the "Company") pursuant to article 716b of the Swiss Code of Obligations ("CO") and Article 24 of the Company's articles of association (the "Articles of Association"). The corporate governance, internal organization and the duties, powers and responsibilities of the executive bodies of the Company are governed by (i) the Organizational Regulations, (ii) the Board Governance Guidelines, and (iii) the charters of each of the Audit Committee, the Management Development and Compensation Committee, and the Nominating, Governance and Compliance Committee.
B    EXECUTIVE BODIES OF THE COMPANY
2
The executive bodies of the Company are:
a)
The board of directors of the Company (the "Board"), consisting of its members (each a "Director");
b)
The chairman of the Board (the "Chairman");
c)
The committees of the Board (the "Committees");
d)
The Chief Executive Officer of the Company (the "CEO"); and
e)
The other officers of the Company (each an "Officer" and together with the CEO, the "Executive Management").
C    THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
3
Constitution:
    The Board shall elect a Chairman and may elect a deputy chairman (the "Deputy Chairman") from amongst its members. The Chairman or any Director may also be appointed as the CEO.
4
Chairman of the Board:
    The directors must elect a Chairman, who must be a Director and shall preside at all meetings of the Board except that in the Chairman's absence the Deputy Chairman shall preside, and in the absence of the Deputy Chairman, the CEO shall preside. In the absence of the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman and the CEO, the directors present shall designate one of their number to preside. The Chairman shall have such additional duties as the Board may assign.
5
Deputy Chairman of the Board:
    The Deputy Chairman of the Board, if any, shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be prescribed by the Board. In the Chairman's absence, the Deputy Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Board.
6
Powers and Duties General:
    The Board is entrusted with the ultimate management of the Company, the overall supervision of subsidiaries of the Company and the supervision and control of management. The Board shall exercise its functions as required by law, the Articles of Association and these Organizational Regulations. The Board shall be authorized to pass resolutions on all matters that are not reserved to the general meeting of shareholders or to other executive bodies by applicable law, the Articles of Association or these Organizational Regulations.
7
Powers and Duties (non-transferable):
    The Board has the following (non-transferable) duties and competences with regard to the Company:
a)
Ultimately manage and direct the Company and issue the necessary directives;
b)
Determine the overall organization and strategy including reviewing and approving management's strategic and business plans;
c)
Organize the accounting, the internal control system, the financial controls and financial planning;
d)
Appoint and remove the CEO;
e)
Appoint and remove the members of the Executive Management;
f)
Grant and revoke the power to sign on behalf of the Company;
g)
Examine compliance with the legal requirements regarding the appointment, election and the professional qualifications of the auditors of the Company;
h)
Ultimately supervise the persons entrusted with management of the Company, in particular with respect to compliance with the law, the Articles of Association, the Organizational Regulations and other regulations and directives, and monitor management execution of corporate plans and objectives;
i)
Perform a risk assessment and provide oversight so as to ensure that appropriate risk management and control procedures are in place and that senior executives take the appropriate steps to manage all major risks;
j)
Prepare the business report (including the financial statements) as well as convene the shareholders' meetings, and implement resolutions passed by shareholders where appropriate;
k)
Pass resolutions regarding increases in share capital that have been approved by shareholders (art. 651 para. 4 CO), and implement such capital increases and related amendments to the Articles of Association;
l)
Propose reorganization measures to the shareholders meeting if half of the Company's share capital is no longer covered by the Company's net assets;
m)
Notify the judge (filing for bankruptcy or related matters) in the case of over-indebtedness; and
n)
Approve any agreements to which the Company is a party relating to mergers, demergers, transformations and/or transfer of assets (
Vermgensbertragung
), to the extent required pursuant to the Swiss Merger Act (
Fusionsgesetz
).
8
Additional Powers and Duties:
    The Board has additional powers and duties as set forth in the Company's Board Governance Guidelines.
9
Delegation of Management:
    The Board of Directors delegates the management of the Company to the CEO and the other members of the Executive Management, except for (a) the non-transferable duties set forth in Section 7 and (b) the duties and competencies retained by the Board according to its delegation of authority.
10
Calendar and Agenda:
    A calendar of the five regularly scheduled Board meetings as established by the Board and all regularly scheduled Committee meetings is prepared annually by the CEO in consultation with the Chairman, Committee chairs, and all interested Directors. The CEO and the Chairman are responsible for setting meeting agendas with input from the Directors. Directors receive the agenda and materials for regularly scheduled meetings in advance. Best efforts will be made to make materials available one week in advance, in any event no later than three days in advance. When practical, the same applies to special meetings of the Board. Directors may ask for additional information from, or meet with, senior managers at any time.
11
Calling of Meetings:
    The Board meets whenever required by business, a minimum of four times a year. One of these meetings will be scheduled in conjunction with the Company's annual general meeting and Directors are expected to be in attendance at the annual general meeting. Meetings shall be convened by the Secretary or the Chairman or, in their absence, by any other Director.
Any Director may request that the Chairman convene a meeting as soon as practicable, subject to providing a reason for so requesting a meeting.
12
Notice of Meetings:
    Notice of any meeting stating the place, date and hour of the meeting shall be given to each Director either by mail not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the date of the meeting, by telephone, facsimile, e-mail or any other electronic means on not less than twenty-four (24) hours' notice, or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem necessary or appropriate and which is reasonable in the circumstances. Items on the agenda shall be set forth in such notice. Any Director may waive any notice required to be given by law or these Organizational Regulations, and the attendance of a Director at a meeting shall be deemed to be a waiver by such Director of notice of such meeting. Unless all Directors in attendance at the meeting agree, only business indicated on the agenda may be transacted at any meeting. Furthermore, these formal requirements do not have to be observed if a meeting is only convened in order to record completion of increases in share capital that have been approved by shareholders and related amendments to the Articles of Association.
13
Planning Sessions:
    Strategic planning and succession planning sessions are held annually at a regular Board meeting. The succession planning meeting focuses on the development and succession of the CEO and other members of the Executive Management.
14
Executive Sessions:
    An executive session of independent non-executive Directors, chaired by the Chairman (where the Chairman is an independent Director), is held at each formal meeting of the Board.
15
Chairing of Board Meetings:
    The Chairman, or in his or her absence, the Deputy Chairman, if any, or, in his or her absence, the CEO (if the CEO is a Director), shall chair the Board meetings. In the absence of the Chairman, Deputy Chairman and CEO, the Directors present at the meeting may choose one of their number to be chairman of the meeting.
16
Proposals:
    At Board meetings, each Director shall be entitled to submit proposals regarding the items on the agenda. Directors may also submit proposals regarding items on the agenda in writing in advance of the meeting.
17
Quorum:
    A quorum of the Board shall be constituted when a majority of the Directors are present in person or participate by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment allowing all persons participating in the meeting to hear each other at the same time, provided that at any meeting duly called, whether or not a quorum is present, a majority of the Directors present may adjourn such meeting from time to time and place to place without notice other than by announcement by the Chairman. At such meeting of the Board at which a quorum is present, all questions and business shall be determined by the affirmative vote of not less than a majority of the Directors present. A quorum of the Board shall not be required at meetings convened only to record completion of increases in share capital that have been approved by shareholders and related amendments to the Articles of Association.
18
Majority Vote:
    The Board shall pass its resolutions with the relative majority of the votes cast whereby abstentions shall be disregarded for purposes of establishing the majority. In case of a tie of votes, the Chairman shall not have the casting vote. Directors may not be represented by alternates or other Directors in a meeting of the Board.
19
Circular Resolutions:
    Board resolutions may also be passed by means of written resolutions (circular resolutions), in writing, by facsimile or by a signed copy sent by e-mail, provided that no Director requests, either by phone, facsimile or similar means, deliberation in a meeting, within 5 (five) calendar days after becoming aware of the proposed resolution. Board resolutions by means of written resolutions require the affirmative vote of all of the Directors. Such resolutions may be contained in one document or in several documents in like form, each signed by one or more Directors.
20
Non-Physical Meetings:
    Board meetings may be held and resolutions may be passed by means of a telephone or video conference or similar communications equipment allowing all persons participating in the meeting to hear each other at the same time.
21
Minutes:
    All resolutions shall be recorded. The minutes shall be kept by the Secretary or, in his or her absence, any other person designated by the Chairman. The minutes shall be signed by the Chairman and the person keeping the minutes, and must be approved by the Board.
22
Reporting:
    At every meeting the CEO shall report to the Board of Directors on business developments with respect to the Company. The Board of Directors shall be informed promptly of any extraordinary business developments, which may require notification between Board meetings. If necessary, members of the Executive Management may be invited to attend Board meetings. Directors shall be informed of extraordinary developments as soon as practicable by way of letter, telephone, facsimile and/or e-mail.
23
Right to Request Information and Access:
    Each Director is entitled to request information from the Chairman on all Company matters. Each Director is also entitled to access to business documents in the intervals between Board meetings. Such requests shall be addressed in writing to the Chairman of the Board. Directors also have complete and open access to the CEO, the Chief Financial Officer and the General Counsel. Each Director shall have the right to examine the Company's books and records for a purpose reasonably related to his or her position as a Director, and may request from the Chairman authorization to review such books and records. If the Chairman rejects a Director's request to examine the Company's books and records, the Board shall decide on the request.
24
Compensation:
    Each Director shall be entitled to receive as compensation for such Director's services as a Director or Committee member or for attendance at meetings of the Board or Committees, or both, such amounts (if any) as shall be fixed from time to time by the Board. Each Director shall be entitled to reimbursement for reasonable traveling expenses incurred by such Director in attending any such meeting.
25
The Board may from time to time determine that, all or part of any fees or other compensation payable to any Director shall be provided in the form of shares or other securities of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, or options or rights to acquire such shares or other securities (including, without limitation, deferred stock units), on such terms as the Board may determine.
26
The Board may grant special compensation to any Director who, being called upon, shall perform any special or extra services for or at the request of the Company.
27
Directors who are Officers and employees of the Company receive no additional compensation for service as Directors.
28
Conflicts of Interest:
    Subject to any applicable law or regulation to the contrary, a Director or Officer (i) may be a party to or otherwise interested in any contract, transaction or other arrangement with the Company, or in which the Company is otherwise interested, and (ii) may be a director or other officer of, or employed by, or a party to any contract, transaction or other arrangement with, or otherwise interested in, any company or other person promoted by the Company or in which the Company is interested, subject to declaring this interest to the Board and the approval and/or authorization of a majority of the disinterested Directors of such contract, transaction or other arrangement. Subject to any applicable law or regulation to the contrary, it shall be a sufficient declaration of interest in relation to any contract, transaction or arrangement if the Director or Officer shall declare the nature of the Director's or Officer's interest at the first opportunity either (1) at a meeting of the Board at which the question of entering into the contract, transaction or arrangement is first taken into consideration, if the Director or Officer knows this interest then exists, or in any other case, at the first meeting of the Board after becoming aware that he or she is or has become or will be so interested or (2) by providing a
general notice to each of the Directors declaring that he or she is an officer of or has a material interest in a person that is a party to a material contract or proposed material contract with the Company and is to be regarded as interested in any transaction or arrangement made with that company or person.
29
So long as, when it is necessary, a Director or Officer declares the nature of his or her interest in accordance with Section 28 of these Organizational Regulations and a majority of the disinterested Directors approves and/or authorizes the contract, transaction or arrangement, a Director or Officer shall not by reason of his or her office be accountable to the Company for any benefit the Director or Officer derives from any office or employment to which the Organizational Regulations allow him or her to be appointed or from any transaction or arrangement in which the Organizational Regulations allow the Director or Officer to be interested, and no such contract, transaction or arrangement shall be void or voidable on the ground of any such interest or benefit.
30
Upon declaring their interest, interested Directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum and, subject to these Organizational Regulations, may vote at a meeting of the Board or of a Committee thereof which considered or authorized the contract, transaction or arrangement.
D    OFFICERS
31
Delegation of Authority:
    The Board may by power of attorney or otherwise appoint any person, whether nominated directly or indirectly by the Board, to be the attorney or agent of the Company and may delegate to such person any of the Board's powers, authorities and discretions (with power to sub-delegate) for such period and subject to such conditions as it may think fit, except that the Board cannot delegate its non-transferable powers and duties as set forth in Section 7. The Board may revoke or vary any such appointment or delegation, but no person dealing in good faith and without notice of such revocation or variation shall be affected by any such revocation or variation. Any such power of attorney or other document may contain such provisions for the protection and convenience of persons dealing with any such attorney or agent as the Board may think fit.
32
Officers Designated:
    The Board may entrust to and confer upon any Officer any of its powers, authorities and discretions (with power to sub-delegate) on such terms and conditions with such restrictions as it thinks fit and either collaterally with, or to the exclusion of, its own powers and may from time to time revoke or vary all or any of such powers, but no person dealing in good faith and without notice of such revocation or variation shall be affected by any revocation or variation. Only the Board shall have the power to appoint Officers, which shall include a CEO, a President, one or more Vice Presidents, a Secretary, a Treasurer, a Controller, one or more Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Secretaries and such other officers, agents and employees as it may deem expedient. Subject to the exercise of such power of appointment and subject always to the control of the Board, such Officers shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as are set out under Sections 33 to 41 inclusive.
33
CEO:
    One of the Officers shall be appointed CEO of the Company by the Board. The CEO shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be conferred upon him or her by the Board. In the Deputy Chairman's absence, the CEO shall preside at all meetings of the Board if the CEO is a Director.
34
President:
    The President shall be appointed by the Directors and shall have such powers and perform such duties as the Board may assign.
35
Vice Presidents:
    Each Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be conferred upon him or her by the Board or determined by the CEO.
36
Treasurer:
    The Treasurer shall have the oversight and control of the funds of the Company and shall have the power and authority to make and endorse notes, drafts and checks and other
obligations necessary for the transaction of the business of the Company except as otherwise provided in these Organizational Regulations.
37
Controller:
    The Controller shall have the oversight and control of the accounting records of the Company and shall prepare such accounting reports and recommendations as shall be appropriate for the operation of the Company.
38
Secretary:
    It shall be the duty of the Secretary to make and keep records of the votes, doings and proceedings of all meetings of the shareholders and Board of the Company, and of its Committees, and to authenticate records of the Company. The Secretary shall give notice of meetings of the Board and shall perform like duties for the Committees when so required.
39
Assistant Treasurers:
    The Assistant Treasurers shall have such duties as the Treasurer shall determine.
40
Assistant Secretaries:
    The Assistant Secretaries shall have such duties as the Secretary shall determine.
41
Other Officers:
    The powers and duties of all other Officers are at all times subject to the control of the Directors, and any other Officer may be removed at any time at the pleasure of the Board.
42
Change in Power and Duties of Officers:
    Anything in these Organizational Regulations to the contrary notwithstanding, the Board may, from time to time, increase or reduce the powers and duties of the respective Officers of the Company whether or not the same are set forth in these Organizational Regulations and may permanently or temporarily delegate the duties of any Officer to any other Officer, agent or employee and may generally control the action of the Officers and require performance of all duties imposed upon them.
E    BOARD COMMITTEES
43
General:
    The Board may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate one or more Committees, each Committee to consist of one or more of the Directors, as designated by the Board. At all meetings of any Committee, a majority of its members (or one member, if the Committee is comprised of only one or two members) shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the act of a majority of the members present shall be the act of any such Committee, unless otherwise specifically provided by law, the Articles of Association or these Organizational Regulations. The Board shall have the power at any time to change the number and members of any such Committee, to fill vacancies and to discharge any such Committee subject to requirements imposed by law and stock exchange listing rules.
44
Governing Procedural Rules:
    Sections 10 to 12 and 15 to 21 above with respect to procedural matters shall apply also to meetings of Committees, unless different provisions shall be prescribed by the Board. Each Committee shall serve at the pleasure of the Board. It shall keep minutes of its meetings and report the same to the Board when required and shall observe such procedures as are prescribed by the Board. Committee meetings are normally held in conjunction with Board meetings. All Directors are welcome to attend any Committee meeting.
45
Individual Committees:
    The standing Committees of the Board shall be the Audit Committee, the Management Development and Compensation Committee, the Nominating, Governance and Compliance Committee and any other Committees designated by the Board. The responsibilities of the Audit Committee, the Management Development and Compensation Committee, and the Nominating, Governance and Compliance Committee are set forth in the charter of each such Committee.
46
Special Committee:
    The Chairman may convene a special committee (a "Special Committee") to review certain material matters being considered by the Board. The Special Committee will report its activities to the Board.
F    INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE
47
The Company shall indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the existing and former Directors and Officers of the Company, and their heirs, executors and administrators out of the assets of the Company from and against all damages, losses, liabilities and expenses in connection with threatened, pending or completed actions, proceedings or investigations, whether civil, criminal, administrative or other (including, but not limited to, liabilities under contract, tort and statute or any applicable foreign law or regulation and all reasonable legal and other costs and expenses properly payable) which they or any of them, their heirs, executors or administrators, shall or may incur or sustain by or by reason of (i) any act done or alleged to be done, concurred or alleged to be concurred in or omitted or alleged to be omitted in or about the execution of their duty, or alleged duty, or (ii) serving as Director or Officer of the Company, or (iii) serving at the request of the Company as director, officer, or employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, trust or other enterprise. This indemnity shall not extend to any matter in which any of said persons is found, in a final judgment or decree of a court, arbitral tribunal or governmental or administrative authority of competent jurisdiction not subject to appeal, to have committed an intentional or grossly negligent breach of said person's duties as Director or Officer.
48
Without limiting the foregoing, the Company shall advance to existing and former Directors and Officers court costs and attorney fees in connection with civil, criminal, administrative or investigative proceedings as described in the preceding paragraph. The Company may reject and/or recover such advanced costs if a court or governmental or administrative authority of competent jurisdiction not subject to appeal holds that the Director or Officer in question has committed an intentional or grossly negligent breach of his statutory duties as a Director or Officer.
49
The Board may authorize the Company to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a Director, Officer, employee or agent of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another company, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or in a fiduciary or other capacity with respect to any employee benefit plan maintained by the Company, against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of this Section F.
G    GENERAL PROVISIONS
50
Signatory Power:
    The Directors, Officers and other persons authorized to represent the Company and its subsidiaries shall have single or joint signatory power, as determined to be appropriate by the Board.
51
Returning of Files:
    Upon termination of the relationship with the Company all business files must be returned with the exception of documents used by a Director to follow up his or her own actions.
52
Fiscal Year:
    The fiscal year of the Company starts on the last Saturday in September and ends on the last Friday in September.
H    FINAL PROVISIONS
53
Entering into Force:
    These Organizational Regulations shall enter into force on the date of adoption by the Board.
54
Review and Amendment:
    These Organizational Regulations shall be reviewed and if necessary amended on a regular basis by the Board.
QuickLinks
ORGANIZATIONAL REGULATIONS dated as of June 22, 2009 of Tyco Electronics Ltd. (Tyco Electronics AG) (Tyco Electronics SA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
EXHIBIT 4.1
        The Corporation will furnish without charge to each shareholder who so requests a copy of the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of shares or series thereof, and the qualifications, limitations, or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
        The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this certificate, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
        
FOR VALUE RECEIVED hereby sell, assign and transfer unto
                        
 
 
 
 
QuickLinks
EXHIBIT 4.1

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
EXHIBIT 10.1
        1.1
    Purpose.
    The purposes of this Tyco Electronics Ltd. 2007 Stock and Incentive Plan (Amended and Restated as of June 22, 2009) (the "Plan") are to promote the interests of Tyco Electronics Ltd. (and any successor thereto) by (i) aiding in the recruitment and retention of Directors and Employees, (ii) providing incentives to such Directors and Employees by means of performance-related incentives to achieve short-term and long-term performance goals, (iii) providing Directors and Employees an opportunity to participate in the growth and financial success of the Company, and (iv) promoting the growth and success of the Company's business by aligning the financial interests of Directors and Employees with that of the other stockholders of the Company. Toward these objectives, the Plan provides for the grant of Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Annual Performance Bonuses, Long Term Performance Awards and other Stock-Based Awards.
        1.2
    Effective Dates; Shareholder Approval.
    The Plan was originally effective June 29, 2007, the date of the dividend distribution of Tyco Electronics Ltd. shares to the Tyco International Ltd. shareholders of record on the distribution date. The Plan was approved by the Tyco Electronics Ltd. Board of Directors on June 4, 2007 and adopted by Tyco International Ltd., as the Company's sole shareholder, on June 4, 2007. The Plan was amended and restated effective as of November 18, 2008 to ensure its compliance with Section 409A of the Code and to make certain other clarifying changes. This amended and restated Plan was adopted by the Board of Directors of Tyco Electronics Ltd. on January 13, 2009 and is effective as of the date of the 2009 Annual General Meeting of the Company's shareholders, subject to approval by a vote of the owners of at least a majority of the Shares of the Company at that meeting, present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote.
        For purposes of the Plan, the following terms have the following meanings, unless another definition is clearly indicated by particular usage and context:
        "
Acquired Company
"means any business, corporation or other entity acquired by the Company or any Subsidiary.
        "
Acquired Grantee
"means the grantee of a stock-based award of an Acquired Company and may include a current or former Director of an Acquired Company.
        "
Annual Performance Bonus
"means an Award of cash or Shares granted under Section 4.4 of the Plan that is paid solely on account of the attainment of a specified performance target in relation to one or more Performance Measures.
        "
Award
"means any form of incentive or performance award granted under the Plan, whether singly or in combination, to a Participant by the Committee pursuant to any terms and conditions that the Committee may establish and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate. Awards granted under the Plan may consist of:
(a)
"
Stock Options
" awarded pursuant to Section 4.3;
(b)
"
Stock Appreciation Rights
" awarded pursuant to Section 4.3;
(c)
"
Annual Performance Bonuses
" awarded pursuant to Section 4.4;
(d)
"
Long Term Performance Awards
" awarded pursuant to Section 4.5;
(e)
"
Other Stock-Based Awards
" awarded pursuant to Section 4.6;
(f)
"
Director Awards
" awarded pursuant to Section 4.7; and
(g)
"
Substitute Awards
" awarded pursuant to Section 4.8.
        "
Award Certificate
" means the document issued, either in writing or an electronic medium, by the Committee or its designee to a Participant evidencing the grant of an Award.
        "
Board
" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
        "
Cause
" means misconduct that is willfully or wantonly harmful to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, monetarily or otherwise, including, without limitation, conduct that violates the Company's Code of ethical Conduct.
        "
Change in Control
" means the first to occur of any of the following events:
        (a)   any "person" (as defined in Section 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act, excluding for this purpose, (i) the Company or any Subsidiary or (ii) any employee benefit plan of the Company or any Subsidiary (or any person or entity organized, appointed or established by the Company for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan that acquires beneficial ownership of voting securities of the Company), is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) directly or indirectly of securities of the Company representing more than 30 percent of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; provided, however, that no Change in Control will be deemed to have occurred as a result of a change in ownership percentage resulting solely from an acquisition of securities by the Company; or
        (b)   persons who, as of the Effective Date constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Directors") cease for any reason (including without limitation, as a result of a tender offer, proxy contest, merger or similar transaction) to constitute at least a majority thereof, provided that any person becoming a Director of the Company subsequent to the Effective Date shall be considered an Incumbent Director if such person's election or nomination for election was approved by a vote of at least 50 percent of the Incumbent Directors; but provided further, that any such person whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened proxy contest relating to the election of members of the Board or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a "person" (as defined in Section 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) other than the Board, including by reason of agreement intended to avoid or settle any such actual or threatened contest or solicitation, shall not be considered an Incumbent Director; or
        (c)   consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of at least 80 percent of the assets of the Company (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners of outstanding voting securities of the Company immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own directly or indirectly more than 50 percent of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, of the company resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a company which, as a result of such transaction, owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more Subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their
ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination, of the outstanding voting securities of the Company; or
        (d)   approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company;
provided, however, that if and to the extent that any provision of this Plan or an Award Certificate would cause a payment of deferred compensation that is subject to Code Section 409A(a)(2) to be made upon the occurrence of a "Change in Control," or would change the timing and/or form of any payment of deferred compensation that is subject to Code Section 409A(a)(2) upon a specified date or event occurring after a "Change in Control or upon a "Change in Control Termination," then such payment shall not be made, or such change in timing or form of payment shall not occur, unless such "Change in Control" " is also a "change in ownership or effective control" of the Company within the meaning of Code Section 409A(2)(A)(v) and applicable regulations and rulings thereunder and such payment, or such associated date or event, occurs no later than two years after the date of such "Change in Control."
        "
Change in Control Termination
" means a Participant's involuntary termination of employment that occurs during the 12 month period immediately following a Change in Control. For this purpose, a Participant's involuntary termination of employment includes only the following:
        (a)   termination of the Participant's employment by the Company for any reason other than for Cause, Disability or death;
        (b)   termination of the Participant's employment by the Participant after one of the following events, provided that the Participant's termination of employment occurs within one hundred and eighty (180) days after the occurrence of any such event:
        i.      the Company (1) assigns or causes to be assigned to the Participant duties inconsistent in any material respect with his or her position as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control; (2) makes or causes to be made any material adverse change in the Participant's position, authority, duties or responsibilities; or (3) takes or causes to be taken any other action which, in the reasonable judgment of the Participant, would cause him or her to violate his or her ethical or professional obligations (after written notice of such judgment has been provided by the Participant to the Company and the Company has been given a 15-day period within which to cure such action), or which results in a significant diminution in such position, authority, duties or responsibilities; or
        ii.     the Company, without the Participant's consent, (1) requires the Participant to relocate to a principal place of employment more than fifty (50) miles from his or her existing place of employment; or (2) reduces the Participant's base salary, annual bonus, or retirement, welfare, stock incentive, perquisite (if any) and other benefits taken as a whole.
        "
Code
" means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
        "
Committee
" means the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board or any successor committee or subcommittee of the Board, which committee is comprised solely of two or more persons who are outside directors within the meaning of Section 162(m)(4)(C)(i) of the Code and the applicable regulations and nonemployee directors within the meaning of Rule 16b-3(b)(3) under the Exchange Act.
        "
Common Stock
" means the common stock of the Company, $.20 (U.S.) par value, and such other securities or property as may become subject to Awards pursuant to an adjustment made under Section 5.3 of the Plan.
        "
Company
" means Tyco Electronics Ltd., a Bermuda company, or any successor thereto.
        "
Deferred Stock
Unit" means a Unit granted under Section 4.6 to acquire Shares upon Termination of Directorship or Termination of Employment, subject to any restrictions that the Committee, in its discretion, may determine.
        "
Director
" means a member of the Board who is a "non-employee director" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3(b)(3) under the Exchange Act.
        
"Director Shares"
means the award of fully-vested Shares to a Director under Section 4.6 as part of the Director's annual compensation, or under such circumstances as are deemed appropriate by the Board.
        "
Disabled" or "Disability
" means the inability of the Director or Employee to perform the material duties pertaining to such Director's directorship or such Employee's employment due to a physical or mental injury, infirmity or incapacity for 180 days (including weekends and holidays) in any 365-day period. The existence or nonexistence of a Disability shall be determined by an independent physician selected by the Company and reasonably acceptable to the Director or Employee. Notwithstanding the above, if and to the extent that any provision of this Plan or an Award Certificate would cause a payment of deferred compensation that is subject to Code Section 409A(a)(2) to be made upon the occurrence of a "Disability" or upon a person becoming "Disabled," or would cause a change in the timing or form of payment of such deferred compensation upon the occurrence of a "Disability" or upon a person becoming "Disabled," then such payment shall not be made, or such change in timing or form of payment shall not occur, unless such "Disability" or condition of being "Disabled" satisfies the requirements of Code Section 409A(2)(C) and applicable regulations and rulings thereunder.
        "
Dividend Equivalent"
means an amount equal to the cash dividend or the Fair Market Value of the stock dividend that would be paid on each Share underlying an Award if the Share were duly issued and outstanding on the date on which the dividend is payable. Dividend Equivalents will not be awarded in connection with stock option or Stock Appreciation Rights Awards.
        "
Effective Date
" means the date of the 2009 Annual General Meeting of the Company's shareholders, subject to approval of the Plan by a vote of the owners of at least a majority of the Shares of the Company at that meeting, present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote. The original effective date of the Tyco Electronics Ltd. Stock and Incentive Plan was, June 29, 2007, the date of the dividend distribution of Tyco Electronics Ltd. shares to the Tyco International Ltd. shareholders of record on the distribution date.
        "
Employee
" means any individual who performs services as an officer or employee of the Company or a Subsidiary.
        "
Exchange Act
" means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
        "
Exercise Price
" means the price of a Share, as fixed by the Committee, which may be purchased under a Stock Option or with respect to which the amount of any payment pursuant to a Stock Appreciation Right is determined.
        
"Fair Market Value
" of a Share means the closing sales price on the New York Stock Exchange on the date as of which the determination of Fair Market Value is being made or, if no sale is reported for such day, on the next preceding day on which a sale of Shares was reported. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Fair Market Value of a Share will in no event be determined to be less than par value.
        "
Fair Market Value Stock Option
" means a Stock Option the Exercise Price of which is fixed by the Committee at a price equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant.
        "
GAAP
" means United States generally accepted accounting principles.
        
"Incentive Stock Option
" means a Stock Option granted under Section 4.3 of the Plan that meets the requirements of Section 422 of the Code and any related regulations and is designated in the Award Certificate to be an Incentive Stock Option.
        "
Key Employee
" means an Employee who is a "covered employee" within the meaning of Section 162(m)(3) of the Code.
        "
Long Term Performance Award
" means an Award granted under Section 4.5 of the Plan that is paid solely on account of the attainment of a specified performance target in relation to one or more Performance Measures or other performance criteria as selected in the discretion of the Committee.
        "
Non-Employee Director
" means any member of the Board, elected or appointed, who is not otherwise an Employee of the Company or a Subsidiary. An individual who is elected to the Board at an annual meeting of the stockholders of the Company will be deemed to be a member of the Board as of the date of the meeting.
        "
Nonqualified Stock Option
" means any Stock Option granted under Section 4.3 of the Plan that is not an Incentive Stock Option.
        "
Participant
" means a Director, Employee or Acquired Grantee who has been granted an Award under the Plan.
        "
Performance Cycle
" means, with respect to any Award that vests based on Performance Measures, the period of 12 months or longer over which the level of performance will be assessed. The first Performance Cycle under the Plan will begin on such date as is set by the Committee, in its discretion.
        
"Performance Measure
" means, with respect to any Annual Performance Bonus or Long Term Performance Award, the business criteria selected by the Committee to measure the level of performance of the Company during the Performance Cycle. The Committee may select as the Performance Measure for a Performance Cycle any one or combination of the following Company measures, as interpreted by the Committee, which measures (to the extent applicable) will be determined in accordance with GAAP:
(a)
Net operating profit after taxes;
(b)
Net operating profit after taxes, per Share;
(c)
Return on invested capital;
(d)
Return on assets or net assets;
(e)
Total shareholder return;
(f)
Relative total shareholder return (as compared with a peer group of the Company);
(g)
Earnings before income taxes;
(h)
Earnings per Share;
(i)
Net income;
(j)
Free cash flow;
(k)
Free cash flow per Share;
(l)
Revenue (or any component thereof); or
(m)
Revenue growth.
        "
Performance Unit
" means a Long Term Performance Award denominated in dollar Units.
        "
Plan
" means the Tyco Electronics Ltd. 2007 Stock and Incentive Plan (Amended and Restated as of June 22, 2009), as it may be amended from time to time.
        "
Premium-Priced Stock Option
" means a Stock Option the Exercise Price of which is fixed by the Committee at a price that exceeds the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant.
        "
Reporting Person
" means a Director or an Employee who is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act.
        
"Restricted Stock
" means Shares issued pursuant to Section 4.6 that are subject to any restrictions that the Committee, in its discretion, may impose.
        "
Restricted Unit
" means a Unit granted under Section 4.6 to acquire Shares or an equivalent amount in cash, which Unit is subject to any restrictions that the Committee, in its discretion, may impose.
        "
Retirement
" means Termination of Employment on or after a Participant has attained age fifty-five (55) and has completed at least five years of service with the Company and its Subsidiaries.
        "
Securities Act
" means the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
        "
Share
" means a share of Common Stock.
        "
Stock Appreciation Right
" means a right granted under Section 4.3 of the Plan to an amount in cash or Shares equal to any difference between the Fair Market Value of the Shares as of the date on which the right is exercised and the Exercise Price, where the amount of Shares attributable to each Stock Appreciation Right is set forth on or before the grant date.
        "
Stock-Based Award
" means an Award granted under Section 4.6 of the Plan and denominated in Shares.
        "
Stock Option
" means a right granted under Section 4.3 of the Plan to purchase from the Company a stated number of Shares at a specified price. Stock Options awarded under the Plan may be in the form of Incentive Stock Options or Nonqualified Stock Options.
        "
Subsidiary
" means a subsidiary company (wherever incorporated) of the Company, as defined by Section 86 of the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda, as amended; provided, that in the case of any Award that provides deferred compensation subject to Code Section 409A, "Subsidiary" shall not include any subsidiary company as defined above unless such company is within a controlled group of corporations with the Company as defined in Code Sections 1563(a)(1), (2) and (3) where the phrase "at least 50%" is substituted in each place "at least 80%" appears or is with the Company part of a group of trades or businesses under common control as defined in Code Section 414(c) and Treas. Reg.  1.414(c)-2 where the phrase "at least 50%" is substituted in each place "at least 80%" appears, provided, however, that when the relevant determination is to be based upon legitimate business criteria (as described in Treas. Reg.  1.409A-1(b)(5)(iii)(E) and  1.409A-1(h)(3)), the phrase "at least 20%" shall be substituted in each place "at least 50%" appears as described above with respect to both a controlled group of corporations and trades or business under common control.
        "
Target Amount
" means the amount of Performance Units that will be paid if the Performance Measure is fully (100%) attained, as determined by the Committee.
        "
Target Vesting Percentage
" means the percentage of performance-based Restricted Units or Shares of Restricted Stock that will vest if the Performance Measure is fully (100%) attained, as determined by the Committee.
        "
Termination of Directorship
" means the date of cessation of a Director's membership on the Board for any reason, with or without Cause, as determined by the Company; provided, that if and to the extent that any provision of this Plan or an Award Certificate would cause a payment of deferred compensation that is subject to Code Section 409A(a)(2) to be made upon the occurrence of a Termination of Directorship or would change the timing and/or form of any payment of deferred compensation that is subject to Code Section 409A(a)(2) upon a person's Termination of Directorship, then such payment shall not be made, or such change in timing and/or form of payment shall not occur, unless such Termination of Directorship would be deemed a "separation from service" within the meaning of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(i) and applicable regulations and rulings thereunder, and shall not include any services provided in the capacity of an employee or otherwise.
        "
Termination of Employment
" means the date of cessation of an Employee's employment relationship with the Company or a Subsidiary for any reason, with or without Cause, as determined by the Company; provided, that if and to the extent that any provision of this Plan or an Award Certificate would cause a payment of deferred compensation that is subject to Code Section 409A(a)(2) to be made upon the occurrence of a Termination of Employment or would change the timing and/or form of any payment of deferred compensation that is subject to Code Section 409A(a)(2) upon a person's Termination of Employment, then such payment shall not be made or such change in timing and/or form of payment shall not occur, unless such Termination of Employment would be deemed a "separation from service" within the meaning of Code Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(i) and applicable regulations and rulings thereunder.
        "
Unit
" means, for purposes of Performance Units, the potential right to an Award equal to a specified amount denominated in such form as is deemed appropriate in the discretion of the Committee and, for purposes of Restricted Units or Deferred Stock Units, the potential right to acquire one Share.
        3.1
    Committee.
    The Plan will be administered by the Committee.
        3.2
    Authority of the Committee.
    The Committee or, to the extent required by applicable law, the Board will have the authority, in its sole and absolute discretion and subject to the terms of the Plan, to:
        (a)   Interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement relating to the Plan;
        (b)   Prescribe the rules and regulations that it deems necessary for the proper operation and administration of the Plan, and amend or rescind any existing rules or regulations relating to the Plan;
        (c)   Select Employees to receive Awards under the Plan;
        (d)   Determine the form of an Award, the number of Shares subject to each Award, all the terms and conditions of an Award, including, without limitation, the conditions on exercise or vesting, the designation of Stock Options as Incentive Stock Options or Nonqualified Stock Options, and the circumstances in which an Award may be settled in cash or Shares or may be cancelled, forfeited or suspended, and the terms of the Award Certificate;
        (e)   Determine whether Awards will be granted singly, in combination or in tandem;
        (f)    Establish and interpret Performance Measures (or, as applicable, other performance criteria) in connection with Annual Performance Bonuses and Long Term Performance Awards,
evaluate the level of performance over a Performance Cycle and certify the level of performance attained with respect to Performance Measures (or other performance criteria, as applicable);
        (g)   Except as provided in Section 6.1, waive or amend any terms, conditions, restrictions or limitations on an Award, except that the prohibition on the repricing of Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights, as described in Section 4.3(g), may not be waived and further provided that any such waiver or amendment shall either comply with the requirements of Section 409A or preserve any exemption from the application of Code Section 409A;
        (h)   Make any adjustments to the Plan (including but not limited to adjustment of the number of Shares available under the Plan or any Award) and any Award granted under the Plan as may be appropriate pursuant to Section 5.3;
        (i)    Determine and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate the circumstances under which Awards may be deferred and the extent to which a deferral will be credited with Dividend Equivalents and interest thereon;
        (j)    Determine whether a Nonqualified Stock Option or Restricted Share may be transferable to family members, a family trust or a family partnership;
        (k)   Establish any subplans and make any modifications to the Plan or to Awards made hereunder (including the establishment of terms and conditions not otherwise inconsistent with the terms of the Plan) that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable for grants made in countries outside the United States to comply with, or to achieve favorable tax treatment under, applicable foreign laws or regulations;
        (l)    Appoint such agents as it shall deem appropriate for proper administration of the Plan; and
        (m)  Take any and all other actions it deems necessary or advisable for the proper operation or administration of the Plan.
        3.3
    Effect of Determinations.
    All determinations of the Committee will be final, binding and conclusive on all persons having an interest in the Plan.
        3.4
    Delegation of Authority.
    The Board or, if permitted under applicable corporate law, the Committee, in its discretion and consistent with applicable law and regulations, may delegate to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or any other officer or group of officers as it deems to be advisable, the authority to select Employees to receive an Award and to determine the number of Shares under any such Award, subject to any terms and conditions that the Board or the Committee may establish. When the Board or the Committee delegates authority pursuant to the foregoing sentence, it will limit, in its discretion, the number of Shares or aggregate value that may be subject to Awards that the delegate may grant. Only the Committee will have authority to grant and administer Awards to Directors, Key Employees and other Reporting Persons or to delegates of the Committee, and to establish and certify Performance Measures.
        3.5
    Employment of Advisors.
    The Committee may employ attorneys, consultants, accountants and other advisors, and the Committee, the Company and the officers and directors of the Company may rely upon the advice, opinions or valuations of the advisors employed.
        3.6
    No Liability.
    No member of the Committee or any person acting as a delegate of the Committee with respect to the Plan will be liable for any losses resulting from any action, interpretation or construction made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Award granted under the Plan.
        4.1
    Eligibility.
    All Participants and Employees are eligible to be designated to receive Awards granted under the Plan, except as otherwise provided in this Article IV.
        4.2
    Form of Awards.
    Awards will be in the form determined by the Committee, in its discretion, and will be evidenced by an Award Certificate. Awards may be granted singly or in combination or in tandem with other Awards.
        4.3
    Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights.
    The Committee may grant Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights under the Plan to those Employees whom the Committee may from time to time select, in the amounts and pursuant to the other terms and conditions that the Committee, in its discretion, may determine and set forth in the Award Certificate, subject to the provisions below:
        (a)
    Form.
    Stock Options granted under the Plan will, at the discretion of the Committee and as set forth in the Award Certificate, be in the form of Incentive Stock Options, Nonqualified Stock Options or a combination of the two. If an Incentive Stock Option and a Nonqualified Stock Option are granted to the same Participant under the Plan at the same time, the form of each will be clearly identified, and they will be deemed to have been granted in separate grants. In no event will the exercise of one Award affect the right to exercise the other Award. Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted either alone or in connection with concurrently or previously granted Nonqualified Stock Options.
        (b)
    Exercise Price.
    The Committee will set the Exercise Price of Fair Market Value Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights granted under the Plan at a price that is equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 5.3. The Committee will set the Exercise Price of Premium-Priced Stock Options at a price that is higher than the Fair Market Value of a Share as of the date of grant, provided that such price is no higher than 150 percent of such Fair Market Value. The Exercise Price of Incentive Stock Options will be equal to or greater than 110 percent of the Fair Market Value of a Share as of the date of grant if the Participant receiving the Stock Options owns stock possessing more than 10 percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any subsidiary or parent corporation of the Company, as defined in Section 424 of the Code. The Exercise Price of a Stock Appreciation Right granted in tandem with a Stock Option will equal the Exercise Price of the related Stock Option. The Committee will set forth the Exercise Price of a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right in the Award Certificate. Stock Options granted under the Plan will, at the discretion of the Committee and as set forth in the Award Certificate, be Fair Market Value Stock Options, Premium-Priced Stock Options or a combination of Fair Market Value Stock Options and Premium-Priced Stock Options.
        (c)
    Term and Timing of Exercise.
    Each Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right granted under the Plan will be exercisable in whole or in part, subject to the following conditions, unless determined otherwise by the Committee:
          (i)  The Committee will determine and set forth in the Award Certificate the date on which any Award of Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights to a Participant may first be exercised. Unless the applicable Award Certificate provides otherwise, a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right will become exercisable in equal annual installments over a period of four years beginning immediately after the date on which the Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right was granted. The right to exercise a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right will lapse no later than 10 years after the date of grant, except to the extent necessary to comply with applicable laws outside of the United States or to preserve the tax advantages of the Award outside the United States.
         (ii)  Unless the applicable Award Certificate provides otherwise, upon the death or Disability of a Participant who has outstanding Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, the unvested Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights will vest. Unless the applicable Award Certificate provides otherwise, the Participant's Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights will lapse, and will not thereafter be exercisable, upon the earlier of (A) their original expiration date or (B) the date that is three years after the date on which the Participant dies, incurs a Disability or retires.
        (iii)  Unless the applicable Award Certificate provides otherwise, upon the Retirement of a Participant, a pro rata portion of the Participant's Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights will vest so that the total number of vested Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights held by the Participant at Termination of Employment (including those that have already vested as of such date) will be equal to (A) the total number of Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights originally granted to the Participant under each Award multiplied by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the period of time (in whole months) that have elapsed since the date of grant, and the denominator of which is four years (or such other applicable vesting term as is set forth in the Award Certificate). Unless the Award Certificate provides otherwise, such Participant's Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights will lapse, and will not thereafter be exercisable, upon the earlier of (A) their original expiration date or (B) the date that is three years after the date of Termination of Employment.
        (iv)  Upon the Termination of Employment of a Participant that does not meet the requirements of paragraphs (ii) or (iii) above, or as otherwise provided in Section 5.4 (Change in Control), any unvested Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights will be forfeited unless the Award Certificate provides otherwise. Any Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights that are vested as of such Termination of Employment will lapse, and will not thereafter be exercisable, upon the earlier of (A) their original expiration date or (B) the date that is ninety (90) days after the date of such Termination of Employment unless the Award Certificate provides otherwise.
         (v)  Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights of a deceased Participant may be exercised only by the estate of the Participant or by the person given authority to exercise the Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights by the Participant's will or by operation of law. If a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right is exercised by the executor or administrator of a deceased Participant, or by the person or persons to whom the Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right has been transferred by the Participant's will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution, the Company will be under no obligation to deliver Shares or cash until the Company is satisfied that the person exercising the Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right is the duly appointed executor or administrator of the deceased Participant or the person to whom the Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right has been transferred by the Participant's will or by applicable laws of descent and distribution.
        (vi)  A Stock Appreciation Right granted in tandem with a Stock Option is subject to the same terms and conditions as the related Stock Option and will be exercisable only to the extent that the related Stock Option is exercisable.
        (d)
    Payment of Exercise Price.
    The Exercise Price of a Stock Option must be paid in full when the Stock Option is exercised. Stock certificates will be registered and delivered only upon receipt of payment. Payment of the Exercise Price may be made in cash or by certified check, bank draft, wire transfer, or postal or express money order, provided that the format is approved by the
Company or a designated third-party administrator. The Committee, in its discretion may also allow payment to be made by any of the following methods, as set forth in the Award Certificate:
          (i)  Delivering a properly executed exercise notice to the Company or its agent, together with irrevocable instructions to a broker to deliver to the Company, within the typical settlement cycle for the sale of equity securities on the relevant trading market (or otherwise in accordance with the provisions of Regulation T issued by the Federal Reserve Board), the amount of sale proceeds with respect to the portion of the Shares to be acquired having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the sum of the applicable portion of the Exercise Price being so paid;
         (ii)  Tendering (actually or by attestation) to the Company, previously acquired Shares that have been held by the Participant for at least six months, subject to paragraph (iv), and that have a Fair Market Value on the day prior to the date of exercise equal to the applicable portion of the Exercise Price being so paid, provided that the Board has specifically approved the repurchase of such Shares (unless such approval is not required by the terms of the bye-laws of the Company) and the Committee has determined that, as of the date of repurchase, the Company is, and after the repurchase will continue to be, able to pay its liabilities as they become due; or
        (iii)  Provided such payment method has been expressly authorized by the Board or the Committee in advance and subject to any requirements of applicable law and regulations, instructing the Company to reduce the number of Shares that would otherwise be issued by such number of Shares as have in the aggregate a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the applicable portion of the Exercise Price being so paid.
        (iv)  The Committee, in consideration of applicable accounting standards, may waive any holding period on Shares required to tender pursuant to clause (ii).
        (e)
    Incentive Stock Options.
    Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan will be subject to the following additional conditions, limitations and restrictions:
          (i)  
Eligibility.
    Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to Employees of the Company or a Subsidiary that is a subsidiary or parent corporation of the Company, within the meaning of Section 424 of the Code.
         (ii)  
Timing of Grant.
    No Incentive Stock Option will be granted under the Plan after the 10-year anniversary of the date on which the Plan is adopted by the Board or, if earlier, the date on which the Plan is approved by the Company's stockholders.
        (iii)  
Amount of Award.
    Subject to Section 5.3 of the Plan, no more than 10 million Shares may be available for grant in the form of Incentive Stock Options. The aggregate Fair Market Value (as of the date of grant) of the Shares with respect to which the Incentive Stock Options awarded to any Employee first become exercisable during any calendar year may not exceed $100,000 (U.S.). For purposes of this $100,000 (U.S.) limit, the Employee's Incentive Stock Options under this Plan and all other plans maintained by the Company and its Subsidiaries will be aggregated. To the extent any Incentive Stock Option would exceed the $100,000 (U.S.) limit, the Incentive Stock Option will afterwards be treated as a Nonqualified Stock Option for all purposes to the extent required by the Code and underlying regulations and rulings.
        (iv)  
Timing of Exercise.
    If the Committee exercises its discretion in the Award Certificate to permit an Incentive Stock Option to be exercised by a Participant more than three months after the Participant has ceased being an Employee (or more than 12 months if the Participant is permanently and totally disabled, within the meaning of Section 22(e) of the
Code), the Incentive Stock Option will afterwards be treated as a Nonqualified Stock Option to the extent required by the Code and underlying regulations and rulings. For purposes of this paragraph (iv), an Employee's employment relationship will be treated as continuing intact while the Employee is on military leave, sick leave or another approved leave of absence if the period of leave does not exceed 90 days, or a longer period to the extent that the Employee's right to reemployment with the Company or a Subsidiary is guaranteed by statute or by contract. If the period of leave exceeds 90 days and the Employee's right to reemployment is not guaranteed by statute or contract, the employment relationship will be deemed to have ceased on the 91st day of the leave.
         (v)  
Transfer Restrictions.
    In no event will the Committee permit an Incentive Stock Option to be transferred by an Employee other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and any Incentive Stock Option awarded under this Plan will be exercisable only by the Employee during the Employee's lifetime.
        (f)
    Exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights.
    Upon exercise of a Participant's Stock Appreciation Rights, the Company will pay cash or Shares or a combination of cash and Shares, in the discretion of the Committee and as described in the Award Certificate. Cash payments will be equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of exercise over the Exercise Price, for each Share for which a Stock Appreciation Right was exercised. If Shares are paid for the Stock Appreciation Right, the Participant will receive a number of whole Shares equal to the quotient of the cash payment amount divided by the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of exercise.
        (g)
    No Repricing.
    Except as otherwise provided in Section 5.3, in no event will the Committee (i) decrease the Exercise Price of a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right after the date of grant or (ii) cancel outstanding Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights in exchange for a cash payment or for a grant of replacement Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights with a lower Exercise Price than that of the replaced Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights or other Awards, without first obtaining the approval of the holders of a majority of the Shares who are present in person or by proxy at a meeting of the Company's stockholders and entitled to vote.
        4.4
    Annual Performance Bonuses.
    The Committee may grant Annual Performance Bonuses under the Plan in the form of cash or Shares to the Reporting Persons that the Committee may from time to time select, in the amounts and pursuant to the terms and conditions that the Committee may determine and set forth in the Award Certificate, subject to the provisions below:
        (a)
    Performance Cycles.
    Annual Performance Bonuses will be awarded in connection with a 12-month Performance Cycle, which will be the fiscal year of the Company.
        (b)
    Eligible Participants.
    Within 90 days after the commencement of a Performance Cycle, the Committee will determine the Reporting Persons who will be eligible to receive an Annual Performance Bonus under the Plan.
        (c)
    Performance Measures; Targets; Award Criteria.
    
          (i)  Within 90 days after the commencement of a Performance Cycle, the Committee will fix and establish in writing (A) the Performance Measures that will apply to that Performance Cycle; (B) the Target Amount payable to each Participant; and (C) subject to subsection (d) below, the criteria for computing the amount that will be paid with respect to each level of attained performance. The Committee will also set forth the minimum level of performance, based on objective factors, that must be attained during the Performance Cycle before any Annual Performance Bonus will be paid and the percentage of the Target Amount that will become payable upon attainment of various levels of performance that equal or exceed the minimum required level.
         (ii)  The Committee may, in its discretion, select Performance Measures that measure the performance of the Company or one or more business units, divisions or Subsidiaries of the Company. The Committee may select Performance Measures that are absolute or relative to the performance of one or more comparable companies or an index of comparable companies.
        (iii)  The Committee, in its discretion, may, on a case-by-case basis, reduce, but not increase, the amount payable to any Key Employee with respect to any given Performance Cycle, provided, however, that no reduction will result in an increase in the amount payable under any Annual Performance Bonus of another Key Employee.
        (d)
    Payment, Certification.
    No Annual Performance Bonus will vest with respect to any Reporting Person until the Committee certifies in writing the level of performance attained for the Performance Cycle in relation to the applicable Performance Measures. In applying Performance Measures, the Committee may, in its discretion, exclude unusual or infrequently occurring items (including any event listed in Section 5.3 and the cumulative effect of changes in the law, regulations or accounting rules), and may determine no later than ninety (90) days after the commencement of any applicable Performance Cycle to exclude other items, each determined in accordance with GAAP (to the extent applicable) and as identified in the financial statements, notes to the financial statements or discussion and analysis of management.
        (e)
    Form of Payment.
    Annual Performance Bonuses will be paid in cash or Shares. All such Performance Bonuses shall be paid no later than the 15th day of the third month following the end of the calendar year (or, if later, following the end of the Company's fiscal year) in which such Performance Bonuses are no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture (as determined for purposes of Section 409A of the Code), except to the extent that a Participant has elected to defer payment under the terms of a duly authorized deferred compensation arrangement in which case the terms of such arrangement shall govern.
        (f)
    Section 162(m) of the Code.
    It is the intent of the Company that Annual Performance Bonuses be "performance-based compensation" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code, that this Section 4.4 be interpreted in a manner that satisfies the applicable requirements of Section 162(m)(C) of the Code and related regulations, and that the Plan be operated so that the Company may take a full tax deduction for Annual Performance Bonuses. If any provision of this Plan or any Annual Performance Bonus would otherwise frustrate or conflict with this intent, the provision will be interpreted and deemed amended so as to avoid this conflict.
        4.5
    Long Term Performance Awards.
    The Committee may grant Long Term Performance Awards under the Plan in the form of Performance Units, Restricted Units or Restricted Stock to any Employee who the Committee may from time to time select, in the amounts and pursuant to the terms and conditions that the Committee may determine and set forth in the Award Certificate, subject to the provisions below:
        (a)
    Performance Cycles.
    Long Term Performance Awards will be awarded in connection with a Performance Cycle, as determined by the Committee in its discretion, provided, however, that a Performance Cycle may be no shorter than 12 months and no longer than 5 years.
        (b)
    Eligible Participants.
    Within 90 days after the commencement of a Performance Cycle, the Committee will determine the Employees who will be eligible to receive a Long Term Performance Award for the Performance Cycle, provided that the Committee may determine the eligibility of any Employee other than a Key Employee after the expiration of the 90-day period.
        (c)
    Performance Measures; Targets; Award Criteria.
    
          (i)  Within 90 days after the commencement of a Performance Cycle, the Committee will fix and establish in writing (A) the Performance Measures that will apply to that Performance Cycle; (B) with respect to Performance Units, the Target Amount payable to each Participant; (C) with respect to Restricted Units and Restricted Stock, the Target Vesting Percentage for each Participant; and (D) subject to subsection (d) below, the criteria for computing the amount that will be paid or will vest with respect to each level of attained performance. The Committee will also set forth the minimum level of performance, based on objective factors, that must be attained during the Performance Cycle before any Long Term Performance Award will be paid or vest, and the percentage of Performance Units that will become payable and the percentage of performance-based Restricted Units or Shares of Restricted Stock that will vest upon attainment of various levels of performance that equal or exceed the minimum required level.
         (ii)  The Committee may, in its discretion, select Performance Measures that measure the performance of the Company or one or more business units, divisions or Subsidiaries of the Company. The Committee may select Performance Measures that are absolute or relative to the performance of one or more comparable companies or an index of comparable companies.
        (iii)  The Committee, in its discretion, may, on a case-by-case basis, reduce, but not increase, the amount of Long Term Performance Awards payable to any Key Employee with respect to any given Performance Cycle, provided, however, that no reduction will result in an increase in the dollar amount or number of Shares payable under any Long Term Performance Award of another Key Employee.
        (iv)  With respect to Employees who are not Key Employees, the Committee may establish, in its discretion, performance criteria other than the Performance Measures that will be applicable for the Performance Cycle.
        (d)   
Payment, Certification.
    No Long Term Performance Award will vest with respect to any Employee until the Committee certifies in writing the level of performance attained for the Performance Cycle in relation to the applicable Performance Measures. Long Term Performance Awards awarded to Participants who are not Key Employees will be based on the Performance Measures, or other applicable performance criteria, and payment formulas that the Committee, in its discretion, may establish for these purposes. These Performance Measures, or other performance criteria, and formulas may be the same as or different than the Performance Measures and formulas that apply to Key Employees.
        In applying Performance Measures, the Committee may, in its discretion, exclude unusual or infrequently occurring items (including any event listed in Section 5.3) and the cumulative effect of changes in the law, regulations or accounting rules, and may determine no later than ninety (90) days after the commencement of any applicable Performance Cycle to exclude other items, each determined in accordance with GAAP (to the extent applicable) and as identified in the financial statements, notes to the financial statements or discussion and analysis of management.
        (e)   
Form of Payment.
    Long Term Performance Awards in the form of Performance Units may be paid in cash or full Shares, in the discretion of the Committee, and as set forth in the Award Certificate. Performance-based Restricted Units and Restricted Stock will be paid in full Shares. Payment with respect to any fractional Share will be in cash in an amount based on the Fair Market Value of the Share as of the date the Performance Unit becomes payable. All such Long Term Performance Awards shall be paid no later than the 15th day of the third month following the end of the calendar year (or, if later, following the end of the Company's fiscal year) in which such Long Term Performance Awards are no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture (as determined for purposes of Code Section 409A), except to the extent that a Participant has elected to defer payment under the terms of a duly authorized deferred compensation arrangement, in which case the terms of such arrangement shall govern.
        (f)    
Section 162(m) of the Code.
    It is the intent of the Company that Long Term Performance Awards made to Key Employees be "performance-based compensation" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code, that this Section 4.5 be interpreted in a manner that satisfies the applicable requirements of Section 162(m)(C) of the Code and related regulations with respect to Long Term Performance awards made to Key Employees, and that the Plan be operated so that the Company may take a full tax deduction for Long Term Performance Awards. If any provision of this Plan or any Long Term Performance Award would otherwise frustrate or conflict with this intent, the provision will be interpreted and deemed amended so as to avoid this conflict.
        (g)   
Retirement.
    If a Participant would be entitled to a Long Term Performance Award but for the fact that the Participant's employment with the Company terminated prior to the end of the Performance Cycle as a result of the Participant's Retirement, the Participant may, in the Committee's discretion, receive a Long Term Performance Award, pro rated for the portion of the Performance Cycle that the Participant completed and payable at the same time after the end of the Performance Cycle that payments to other Long Term Performance Award recipients are made.
        4.6
    Other Stock-Based Awards.
    The Committee may, from time to time, grant Awards (other than Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Annual Performance Bonuses or Long Term Performance Awards) to any Employee who the Committee may from time to time select, which Awards consist of, or are denominated in, payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise related to, Shares. These Awards may include, among other forms, Restricted Stock, Restricted Units, or Deferred Stock Units. The Committee will determine, in its discretion, the terms and conditions that will apply to Awards granted pursuant to this Section 4.6, which terms and conditions will be set forth in the applicable Award Certificate.
        (a)   
Vesting.
    Unless the Award Certificate provides otherwise, restrictions on Stock-Based Awards granted under this Section 4.6 will lapse in equal annual installments over a period of four years beginning immediately after the date of grant. If the restrictions on Stock-Based Awards have not lapsed or been satisfied as of the Participant's Termination of Employment, the Shares will be forfeited by the Participant if the termination is for any reason other than the Retirement, death or Disability of the Participant or a Change in Control. Unless the Award Certificate provides otherwise, (i) all restrictions on Stock-Based Awards granted pursuant to this Section 4.6 will lapse upon the death or Disability of the Participant, (ii) in the event of Retirement, the Award will vest pro rata with respect to the portion of the four-year vesting term (or such other vesting term as is set forth in the Award Certificate) that the Participant has completed as of the Participant's Termination of Employment and provided that the Participant has satisfied all other applicable conditions established by the Committee with respect to such pro rata vesting, and (iii) in the event of a Change in Control, Stock-Based Awards will be treated in accordance with Section 5.4. In no event may the vesting period of a time-based full-value share award be less than three years (on either a cliff or graded vesting basis), except that the Committee may award up to 10 percent of the shares authorized for issuance under Section 5.1 with a vesting period of less than three years under such circumstances as it deems appropriate.
        (b)   
Grant of Restricted Stock.
    The Committee may grant Restricted Stock to any Employee, which Shares will be registered in the name of the Participant and held for the Participant by the Company. The Participant will have all rights of a stockholder with respect to the Shares, including the right to vote and to receive dividends or other distributions, except that the Shares may be subject to a vesting schedule and will be forfeited if the Participant attempts to sell, transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber or dispose of the Shares before the restrictions are satisfied or lapse.
        (c)   
Grant of Restricted Units.
    The Committee may grant Restricted Units to any Employee, which Units will be paid in cash or whole Shares or a combination of cash and Shares, as determined in the discretion of the Committee. The Committee will determine the terms and
conditions applicable to the grant of Restricted Units, which terms and conditions will be set forth in the Award Certificate. For each Restricted Unit that vests, one Share will be paid or an amount in cash equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share, as set forth in the Award Certificate, will be delivered to the Participant on the applicable delivery date.
        (d)   
Grant of Deferred Stock Units.
    The Committee may grant Deferred Stock Units to any Employee, which Units will be paid in whole Shares upon the Employee's Termination of Employment if the restrictions on the Units have lapsed. One Share will be paid for each Deferred Stock Unit that becomes payable.
        (e)   
Dividends and Dividend Equivalents.
    At the discretion of the Committee and as set forth in the applicable Award Certificate, dividends issued on Shares may be paid immediately or withheld and deferred in the Participant's account. In the event of a payment of dividends on Common Stock, the Committee may credit Restricted Units with Dividend Equivalents in accordance with terms and conditions established in the discretion of the Committee. Dividend Equivalents will be subject to such vesting terms as is determined by the Committee and may be distributed immediately or withheld and deferred in the Participant's account as determined by the Committee and set forth in the applicable Award Certificate. Deferred Stock Units may, in the discretion of the Committee and as set forth in the Award Certificate, be credited with Dividend Equivalents or additional Deferred Stock Units. The number of any Deferred Stock Units credited to a Participant's account upon the payment of a dividend will be equal to the quotient produced by dividing the cash value of the dividend by the Fair Market Value of one Share as of the date the dividend is paid. The Committee will determine any terms and conditions on deferral of a dividend or Dividend Equivalent, including the rate of interest to be credited on deferral and whether interest will be compounded.
        4.7
    Director Awards.
    
        (a)   The Committee may grant Deferred Stock Units to each Director in such an amount as the Board, in its discretion, may approve in advance. Each such Deferred Stock Unit will vest as determined by the Committee and set forth in the Award Certificate and will be paid in Shares within 30 days following the recipient's Termination of Directorship, subject to deferral under any applicable deferred compensation plan approved by the Committee, in which case the terms of such arrangement shall govern. Dividend Equivalents or additional Deferred Stock Units will be credited to each Director's account when dividends are paid on Common Stock to the shareholders, and will be paid to the Director at the same time that the Deferred Stock Units are paid to the Director.
        (b)   The Committee may grant Director Shares to each Director in such amounts as the Board, in its discretion, may approve in advance.
        (c)   The Committee may, in its discretion, grant Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights and other Stock-Based Awards to Directors.
        4.8
    Substitute Awards.
    The Committee may make Awards under the Plan to Acquired Grantees through the assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding Stock-Based Awards previously granted to such Acquired Grantees. Such assumed or substituted Awards will be subject to the terms and conditions of the original awards made by the Acquired Company, with such adjustments therein as the Committee considers appropriate to give effect to the relevant provisions of any agreement for the acquisition of the Acquired Company, provided that any such adjustment with respect to Nonqualified Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights shall satisfy the requirements of Treas. Reg.  1.409A-1(b)(5)(v)(D) and otherwise ensure that such awards continue to be exempt from Code Section 409A and provided that any adjustment to Awards that are subject to Code Section 409A is in compliance with Code Section 409A and the regulations and rulings thereunder. Any grant of Incentive Stock Options pursuant to this Section 4.8 will be made in accordance with Section 424 of the Code and any final regulations published thereunder.
        4.9
    Limit on Individual Grants.
    Subject to Sections 5.1 and 5.3, no Employee may be granted more than 6 million Shares over any calendar year pursuant to Awards of Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights and performance-based Restricted Stock and Restricted Units, except that an incentive Award of no more than 10 million Shares may be made pursuant to Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights and performance-based Restricted Stock and Restricted Units to any person who has been hired within the calendar year as a Key Employee. The maximum amount that may be paid in cash or Shares pursuant to Annual Performance Bonuses or Long Term Performance Awards paid in Performance Units to any one Employee is $10 million (U.S.) for any Performance Cycle of 12 months. For any longer Performance Cycle, this maximum will be adjusted proportionally.
        4.10
    Termination for Cause.
    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, if a Participant incurs a Termination of Directorship or Termination of Employment for Cause, then all Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Annual Performance Bonuses, Long Term Performance Awards, Restricted Units, Restricted Stock and other Stock-Based Awards will immediately be cancelled. The exercise of any Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right or the payment of any Award may be delayed, in the Committee's discretion, in the event that a potential termination for Cause is pending, subject to ensuring an exemption from or compliance with Code Section 409A and the underlying regulations and rulings. If a Participant incurs a Termination of Employment for Cause, or the Company becomes aware (after the Participant's Termination of Employment) of conduct on the part of the Participant that would be grounds for a Termination of Employment for Cause, then the Participant will be required to deliver to the Company (i) Shares (or, in the discretion of the Committee, cash) in an amount that is equal in value to the amount of any profit the Participant realized upon the exercise of an Option during the period beginning six (6) months prior to the Participant's Termination of Employment for Cause and ending on the two (2) year anniversary of such Termination of Employment; and (ii) the number of Shares (or, in the discretion of the Committee, the cash value of said shares) the Participant received for Restricted Shares or Restricted Units that vested during the period described in (i) above.
        5.1
    Shares Available.
    The Shares issuable under the Plan will be authorized but unissued Shares, and, to the extent permissible under applicable law, Shares acquired by the Company, any Subsidiary or any other person or entity designated by the Company. The total number of Shares with respect to which Awards may be issued under the Plan may equal, but may not exceed, five percent (5%) of the Shares outstanding as of June 29, 2007, subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 5.3; provided that when Shares are issued pursuant to a grant of Restricted Stock, Restricted Units, Deferred Stock Units, Performance Units or as payment of an Annual Performance Bonus or other Stock-Based Award, the total number of Shares remaining available for grant will be decreased by a margin of at least 1.8 per Share issued. In addition, in the case of the settlement of any stock-settled Stock Appreciation Right, the total number of Shares available for grant will be decreased by the total number of Shares equal in value to the total value of the Stock Appreciation Right on the day of settlement. No more than 10 million Shares of the total Shares issuable under the Plan may be available for grant in the form of Incentive Stock Options.
        5.2
    Counting Rules.
    The following Shares related to Awards under this Plan may again be available for issuance under the Plan, in addition to the Shares described in Section 5.1:
        (a)   Shares related to Awards paid in cash;
        (b)   Shares related to Awards that expire, are forfeited or cancelled or terminate for any other reason without issuance of Shares, and provided that each such forfeited, cancelled or terminated Share that was originally issued pursuant to a grant of Restricted Stock, Restricted Units, Deferred Stock Units, Performance Units or as payment of an Annual Performance Bonus or other Stock-Based Award shall be counted as 1.8 Share;
        (c)   Any Shares issued in connection with Awards that are assumed, converted or substituted as a result of the acquisition of an Acquired Company by the Company or a combination of the Company with another company; and
        (d)   Any Shares of Restricted Stock that are returned to the Company upon a Participant's Termination of Employment.
        5.3
    Adjustments.
    In the event of a change in the outstanding Shares by reason of a stock split, reverse stock split, dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Shares, other securities or other property), extraordinary cash dividend, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, reorganization, combination, repurchase or exchange of Shares or other securities or similar corporate transaction or event, the Committee shall make an appropriate adjustment to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan . Any such adjustment with respect to Nonqualified Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights shall satisfy the requirements of Treas. Reg.  1.409A-1(b)(5)(v)(D) and otherwise ensure that such awards continue to be exempt from Code Section 409A, and any adjustment to Awards that are subject to Code Section 409A shall comply with Code Section 409A and the regulations and rulings thereunder. Any adjustment made by the Committee under this Section 5.3 will be conclusive and binding for all purposes under the Plan.
        5.4
    Change in Control.
    
        (a)   Unless otherwise provided under the terms of an applicable Award Certificate, (i) all outstanding Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights will become exercisable as of the effective date of a Participant's Change in Control Termination if the Awards are not otherwise vested, and all conditions will be waived with respect to outstanding Restricted Stock, Restricted Units and other Stock-Based Awards (other than Long Term Performance Awards) and Deferred Stock Units, and (ii) each Participant who has been granted an Annual Performance Bonus or Long Term Performance Award that is outstanding as of the date of such Participant's Change in Control Termination will be deemed to have achieved a level of performance, as of the Change in Control Termination, that would cause all (100%) of the Participant's Target Amounts to become payable and all restrictions on the Participant's Restricted Units and Shares of Restricted Stock to lapse. Unless the Committee determines otherwise in its discretion (either when the award is granted or any time thereafter), in the event that Awards outstanding as of the date of a Change in Control that are payable in shares of Company Common Stock will not be substituted with comparable awards payable or redeemable in shares of publicly-traded stock after the Change in Control, each such outstanding Award (i) will become fully vested (at target, where applicable) immediately prior to the Change in Control and (ii) each such Award that is a Stock Option will be settled in cash, without the Participant's consent, for an amount equal to the amount that could have been attained upon the exercise of such Award immediately prior to the Change in Control had such Award been exercisable or payable at such time.
        (b)   In addition to the such other actions described in Section 5.4(a), in the event of a Change in Control the Committee may take any one or more of the following actions with respect to any or all outstanding Awards, without the consent of the Participant: (i) the Committee may determine that outstanding Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights shall be fully exercisable, and restrictions on Restricted Stock, Restricted Units, Deferred Stock Units and other Stock-Based Awards shall lapse, as of the date of the Change in Control or such other time (prior to a Participant's Change in Control Termination) as the Committee determines, (ii) the Committee may require that a Participant surrender their outstanding Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights in exchange for one or more payments by the Company, in cash or Common Stock as determined by the Committee, in an amount equal to the amount by which the then Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock subject to the Participant's unexercised Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights exceeds the exercise price, if any, and on such terms as the Committee
determines, (iii) after giving Participants an opportunity to exercise their outstanding Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights, the Committee may terminate any or all unexercised Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights at such time as the Committee deems appropriate, (iv) the Committee may determine that Annual Performance Bonuses and/or Long Term Performance Awards will be paid out at their target level, in cash or Common Stock as determined by the Committee, or (v) the Committee may determine that Awards that remain outstanding after the Change in Control shall be converted to similar grants of, or assumed by, the surviving corporation (or a parent or subsidiary of the surviving corporation or successor). Such acceleration, surrender, termination, settlement or conversion shall take place as of the date of the Change in Control or such other date as the Committee may specify. The Committee may specify how an Award will be treated in the event of a Change in Control either when the Award is granted or at any time thereafter, except as otherwise provided herein.
        5.5
    Fractional Shares.
    No fractional Shares will be issued under the Plan. Except as otherwise provided in Section 4.5(e), if a Participant acquires the right to receive a fractional Share under the Plan, the Participant will receive, in lieu of the fractional Share, a full Share as of the date of settlement, unless otherwise provided by the Committee.
        6.1
    Amendment.
    The Plan may be amended at any time and from time to time by the Board without the approval of stockholders of the Company, except that no material revision to the terms of the Plan will be effective until the amendment is approved by the stockholders of the Company. A revision is "material" for this purpose if, among other changes, it materially increases the number of Shares that may be issued under the Plan (other than an increase pursuant to Section 5.3 of the Plan), expands the types of Awards available under the Plan, materially expands the class of persons eligible to receive Awards under the Plan, materially extends the term of the Plan, materially decreases the Exercise Price at which Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted, reduces the Exercise Price of outstanding Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, or results in the replacement of outstanding Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights with new Awards that have an Exercise Price that is lower than the Exercise Price of the replaced Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights. No amendment of the Plan or any outstanding Award made without the Participant's written consent may adversely affect any right of a Participant with respect to an outstanding Award.
        6.2
    Termination.
    The Plan will terminate upon the earlier of the following dates or events to occur:
        (a)   the adoption of a resolution of the Board terminating the Plan; or
        (b)   the day before the 10th anniversary of the adoption of the Plan by the Company's shareholder as described in Section 1.2.
No Awards will be granted under this Plan after it has terminated. The termination of the Plan, however, will not alter or impair any of the rights or obligations of any person under any Award previously granted under the Plan without such person's consent. After the termination of the Plan, any previously granted Awards will remain in effect and will continue to be governed by the terms of the Plan and the applicable Award Certificate.
        7.1
    Nontransferability of Awards.
    No Award under the Plan will be subject in any manner to alienation, anticipation, sale, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or transfer, and no other persons will otherwise acquire any rights therein, except as provided below.
        (a)   Any Award may be transferred by will or by the laws of descent or distribution.
        (b)   The Committee may provide in the applicable Award Certificate that all or any part of a Nonqualified Option or Shares of Restricted Stock may, subject to the prior written consent of the Committee, be transferred to a family member. For purposes of this subsection (b), "family member" includes any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, former spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law of the Participant, including adoptive relationships, any person sharing the Participant's household (other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these persons have more than 50 percent of the beneficial interest, a foundation in which these persons (or the Participant) control the management of assets, and any other entity in which these persons (or the Participant) own more than 50 percent of the voting interests.
Any transferred Award will be subject to all of the same terms and conditions as provided in the Plan and the applicable Award Certificate. The Participant or the Participant's estate will remain liable for any withholding tax that may be imposed by any federal, state or local tax authority. The Committee may, in its discretion, disallow all or a part of any transfer of an Award pursuant to this subsection (b) unless and until the Participant makes arrangements satisfactory to the Committee for the payment of any withholding tax. The Participant must immediately notify the Committee, in the form and manner required by the Committee, of any proposed transfer of an Award pursuant to this subsection (b). No transfer will be effective until the Committee consents to the transfer in writing.
        (c)   Except as otherwise provided in the applicable Award Certificate, any Nonqualified Stock Option transferred by a Participant pursuant to this subsection (c) may be exercised by the transferee only to the extent that the Award would have been exercisable by the Participant had no transfer occurred. The transfer of Shares upon exercise of the Award will be conditioned on the payment of any withholding tax.
        (d)   Restricted Stock may be freely transferred after the restrictions lapse or are satisfied and the Shares are delivered, provided, however, that Restricted Stock awarded to an affiliate of the Company may be transferred only pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or pursuant to an effective registration for resale under the Securities Act. For purposes of this subsection (d), "affiliate" will have the meaning assigned to that term under Rule 144.
        (e)   In no event may a Participant transfer an Incentive Stock Option other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
        7.2
    Withholding of Taxes.
    The Committee, in its discretion, may satisfy a Participant's tax withholding obligations by any of the following methods or any method as it determines to be in accordance with the laws of the jurisdiction in which the Participant resides, has domicile or performs services.
        (a)   
Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights.
    As a condition to the delivery of Shares pursuant to the exercise of a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right, the Committee may require that the Participant, at the time of exercise, pay to the Company by cash, certified check, bank draft, wire transfer or postal or express money order an amount sufficient to satisfy any applicable tax withholding obligations. The Committee may also, in its discretion, accept payment of tax withholding obligations through any of the Exercise Price payment methods described in Section 4.3(d).
        (b)   
Other Awards Payable in Shares.
    The Participant shall satisfy the Participant's tax withholding obligations arising in connection with the release of restrictions on Restricted Units, Restricted Stock and other Stock-Based Awards by payment to the Company in cash or by certified check, bank draft, wire transfer or postal or express money order, provided that the format is approved by the Company or a designated third-party administrator. However, subject to any
requirements of applicable law, the Company may also satisfy the Participant's tax withholding obligations by other methods, including selling or withholding Shares that would otherwise be available for delivery, provided that the Board or the Committee has specifically approved such payment method in advance.
        (c)   
Cash Awards.
    The Company may satisfy a Participant's tax withholding obligation arising in connection with the payment of any Award in cash by withholding cash from such payment.
        7.3
    Special Forfeiture Provision.
    The Committee may, in its discretion, provide in an Award Certificate that the Participant may not, within two years of the Participant's Termination of Employment with the Company, enter into any employment or consultation arrangement (including service as an agent, partner, stockholder, consultant, officer or director) with any entity or person engaged in any business in which the Company or any Subsidiary is engaged without prior written approval of the Committee if, in the sole judgment of the Committee, the business is competitive with the Company or any Subsidiary or business unit or such employment or consultation arrangement would present a risk that the Participant would likely disclose Company proprietary information (as determined by the Committee). If the Committee makes a determination that this prohibition has been violated, the Participant (i) will forfeit all rights under any outstanding Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right that was granted subject to the Award Certificate and will return to the Company the amount of any profit realized upon an exercise of all Awards during the period, as the Committee determines and sets forth in the Award Certificate, beginning no earlier than six months prior to the Participant's Termination of Employment, and (ii) will forfeit and return to the Company any Annual Performance Bonuses, Performance Units, Shares of Restricted Stock, Restricted Units (including any credited Dividend Equivalents), Deferred Stock Units, and other Stock-Based Awards that are outstanding on the date of the Participant's Termination of Employment, subject to the Award Certificate, and have not vested or that had vested and remain subject to this Section 7.3 during a period, as the Committee determines and sets forth in the Award Certificate, beginning no earlier than six months prior to the Participant's Termination of Employment.
        7.4
    No Implied Rights.
    The establishment and operation of the Plan, including the eligibility of a Participant to participate in the Plan, will not be construed as conferring any legal or other right upon any Director for any continuation of directorship or any Employee for the continuation of employment through the end of any Performance Cycle or other period. The Company expressly reserves the right, which may be exercised at any time and in the Company's sole discretion, to discharge any individual or treat him or her without regard to the effect such discharge might have upon him or her as a Participant in the Plan.
        7.5
    No Obligation to Exercise Awards.
    The grant of a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right will impose no obligation upon the Participant to exercise the Award.
        7.6
    No Rights as Stockholders.
    A Participant who is granted an Award under the Plan will have no rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to the Award unless and until certificates for the Shares underlying the Award are registered in the Participant's name and (other than in the case of Restricted Stock) delivered to the Participant. The right of any Participant to receive an Award by virtue of participation in the Plan will be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company.
        7.7
    Indemnification of Committee.
    The Company will indemnify, to the fullest extent permitted by law, each person made or threatened to be made a party to any civil or criminal action or proceeding by reason of the fact that the person, or the executor or administrator of the person's estate, is or was a member of the Committee or a delegate of the Committee.
        7.8
    No Required Segregation of Assets.
    Neither the Company nor any Subsidiary will be required to segregate any assets that may at any time be represented by Awards granted pursuant to the Plan.
        7.9
    Nature of Payments.
    All Awards made pursuant to the Plan are in consideration of services for the Company or a Subsidiary. Any gain realized pursuant to Awards under the Plan constitutes a special incentive payment to the Participant and will not be taken into account as compensation for purposes of any other employee benefit plan of the Company or a Subsidiary, except as the Committee otherwise provides. The adoption of the Plan will have no effect on Awards made or to be made under any other benefit plan covering an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary or any predecessor or successor of the Company or a Subsidiary.
        7.10
    Securities Law Compliance.
    Awards under the Plan are intended to satisfy the requirements of Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act. If any provision of this Plan or any grant of an Award would otherwise frustrate or conflict with this intent, that provision will be interpreted and deemed amended so as to avoid conflict. No Participant will be entitled to a grant, exercise, transfer or payment of any Award if the grant, exercise, transfer or payment would violate the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or any other applicable law.
        7.11
    Section 409A Compliance.
    To the extent the Committee determines that any Award granted under the Plan is subject to Section 409A of the Code, the Award Certificate evidencing such Award will incorporate the terms and conditions required by Section 409A of the Code. To the extent applicable, the Plan and the Award Certificate will be interpreted in accordance with Section 409A of the Code and Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretive guidance issued thereunder, including without limitation any such regulations or other guidance that may be issued after the Effective Date. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan, in the event that the Committee determines that any Award may be subject to Section 409A of the Code, the Committee may adopt such amendments to the Plan and/or the applicable Award Certificate or adopt policies and procedures or take any other action or actions, including an action or amendment with retroactive effect, that the Committee determines is necessary or appropriate to (i) exempt the Award from the application of Section 409A of the Code or (ii) comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. Any Award that provides for a payment to any Participant who is a "specified employee" of deferred compensation that is subject to Code Section 409A(a)(2) and that becomes payable upon, or that is accelerated upon, such Participant's Termination of Employment, shall also provide that no such payment shall be made on or before the date which is six months following such Participant's Termination of Employment (or, if earlier, such Participant's death). A specified employee for this purpose shall be determined by the Committee or its delegate in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 409A and the regulations and rulings thereunder.
        7.12
    Governing Law, Severability.
    The Plan and all determinations made and actions taken under the Plan will be governed by the law of Bermuda and construed accordingly. If any provision of the Plan is held unlawful or otherwise invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part, the unlawfulness, invalidity or unenforceability will not affect any other parts of the Plan, which parts will remain in full force and effect.
QuickLinks
TYCO ELECTRONICS LTD. 2007 STOCK AND INCENTIVE PLAN (AMENDED AND RESTATED AS OF JUNE 22, 2009)

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
EXHIBIT 99.1
(1)
Based on an exchange rate of 1.0846 Swiss Francs per US dollar (a rate in effect on June 22, 2009, as reported by Schweizerische Nationalbank).
*
This special balance sheet is being used to establish the opening balance sheet for Swiss statutory and tax requirements and includes certain non-U.S. GAAP adjustments which are appropriate for Swiss statutory and tax requirements and which are not necessary or required for, and will not be included in, our balance sheet prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
QuickLinks
TYCO ELECTRONICS LTD. SPECIAL UNCONSOLIDATED INTERIM BALANCE SHEET* (prepared for Swiss statutory and tax purposes) (UNAUDITED) As of June 22, 2009 (in millions)

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
EXHIBIT 99.2
        The following description of our share capital following the Swiss Continuation is a summary. This summary is not complete and is subject to the complete text of our Proposed Swiss Articles and Proposed Organizational Regulations attached as Annex A and Annex B to this proxy statement/prospectus, which we encourage you to read carefully.
Capital Structure After the Swiss Continuation
        Immediately after the Swiss Continuation, we will only have one class of shares authorized and outstanding, registered shares with a par value per share equal to approximately CHF 2.81 (or approximately US$ 2.40 assuming a $1:1.1713 US dollar/Swiss franc exchange rate, a rate in effect on March 5, 2009, and that approximately 468.0 million shares (including an estimated 10.0 million shares held in treasury) remain issued immediately after the Swiss Continuation). Accordingly, all references to "voting rights" in this "Description of Our Share Capital After the Swiss Continuation" will mean the voting rights of registered shares with a par value per share determined as described above, unless another class of shares is subsequently created. Likewise, a "majority of the par value of the registered shares" will mean a majority of the par value of registered shares with a par value per share determined as described above.
        Assuming that the number of our issued shares at the effective time of the Swiss Continuation is approximately 500.3 million, that after cancelling an estimated 32.3 million shares currently held in treasury we retain an estimated 10.0 million shares in treasury, and that the US dollar/Swiss franc exchange rate is $1:1.1713 (a rate in effect on March 5, 2009), the par value of a share would increase from approximately CHF 0.23 to an amount equal to approximately CHF 2.81 (approximately US$ 2.40), and our registered share capital would be approximately CHF 1.3 billion (approximately US$ 1.1 billion).
Authorized Share Capital
        Upon completion of the Swiss Continuation, our board of directors will be authorized to issue new Swiss registered share capital at any time during a two-year period and thereby increase the share capital, without shareholder approval, by a maximum amount of 50% of the share capital registered in the commercial register, which, based on the assumptions described above, would be approximately CHF 658.0 million, or approximately 234.0 million registered shares. After the expiration of the initial two-year period on the second anniversary of the Special General Meeting (expected to be June 22, 2011), and any subsequent two-year period, authorized share capital will be available to our board of directors for issuance of additional registered shares only if authorized by shareholders.
        Our board of directors will determine the time of the issuance, the issue price, the manner in which the new registered shares have to be paid, the date from which the new registered shares carry the right to distributions and, subject to the provisions of our Proposed Swiss Articles, the conditions for the exercise of preemptive rights with respect to the issuance and the allotment of preemptive rights that are not exercised. Our board of directors may allow preemptive rights that are not exercised to expire, or it may place such rights or registered shares, the preemptive rights of which have not been exercised, at market conditions or use them otherwise in the interest of Tyco Electronics.
        In an authorized capital increase, our shareholders would have preemptive rights to obtain newly issued registered shares in an amount proportional to the par value of the registered shares they
already hold. Our board of directors, however, may withdraw or limit these preemptive rights in certain circumstances as set forth in our Proposed Swiss Articles. For further details on these circumstances, see "Preemptive Rights and Advance Subscription Rights."
Conditional Share Capital
        Upon completion of the Swiss Continuation, our articles of association will provide for a conditional capital for financing purposes and for employee compensation purposes that will allow our board of directors to authorize the issuance of additional registered shares up to a maximum amount of 50% of the share capital registered in the commercial register (which is expected to be approximately 234.0 million registered shares) without obtaining additional shareholder approval.
        Out of conditional share capital for financing purposes, registered shares may be issued through the exercise of conversion, exchange, option, warrant or similar rights for the subscription of shares granted in connection with bonds, options, warrants or other securities newly or already issued in national or international capital markets or new or already existing contractual obligations by Tyco Electronics, one of its subsidiaries, or any of their respective predecessors. In this connection, our board of directors may withdraw or limit the advance subscription rights of shareholders in certain circumstances. See "Preemptive Rights and Advance Subscription Rights."
        Out of conditional share capital for employee compensation purposes, registered shares may be issued in connection with the issuance of registered shares, options or other equity-based awards (including, without limitation, restricted stock units and deferred stock units) to directors, officers, employees and other persons providing services to us or one of our subsidiaries or affiliates. Shareholders do not have preemptive or advance subscription rights with respect to such issuances.
Other Classes or Series of Shares
        Our board of directors may not create shares with increased voting powers without an authorizing resolution adopted by shareholders holding at least two-thirds of the voting rights and a majority of the par value of the registered shares represented at a general meeting. Our board of directors may not create preferred shares that have increased voting powers without an authorization resolution adopted by shareholders holding a majority of the voting rights represented at a general meeting.
Preemptive Rights and Advance Subscription Rights
        Under the Swiss Code, the prior approval of a general meeting of shareholders generally is required to authorize the issuance of registered shares or rights to subscribe for, or convert into, registered shares. In addition, shareholders have preemptive rights or advance subscription rights (which are essentially the same as preemptive rights) in relation to such registered shares or rights in proportion to the respective par values of their holdings. With the affirmative vote of shareholders holding two-thirds of the voting rights and a majority of the par value of the registered shares represented at the general meeting, shareholders may withdraw or limit the preemptive rights or advance subscription rights for valid reasons, such as a merger, an acquisition or any of the reasons authorizing our board of directors to withdraw or limit the preemptive rights of shareholders in the context of an authorized or conditional capital increase as described herein.
        Under Swiss law, the general meeting of shareholders may approve the creation of authorized share capital or conditional share capital. The general meeting of shareholders may also delegate the decision whether to withdraw or limit the preemptive and advance subscription rights for valid reasons to the board of directors. Our Proposed Swiss Articles provide for this delegation with respect to our authorized and conditional share capital in the circumstances described below under "Withdrawal or Limitation of Preemptive Rights with Respect to Authorized Share Capital" and "Withdrawal or Limitation of Advance Subscription Rights with Respect to Conditional Share Capital."
Withdrawal or Limitation of Preemptive Rights with Respect to Authorized Share Capital
        Our board of directors is authorized pursuant to our Proposed Swiss Articles to withdraw or limit the preemptive rights with respect to the issuance of registered shares from authorized capital:
 - 
if the issue price of the new registered shares is determined by reference to the market price;
 - 
if the registered shares are issued in connection with the acquisition of an enterprise or business or any part of an enterprise, business or investment, the financing or refinancing of any such transactions;
 - 
if the registered shares are issued in connection with the financing of new investment plans;
 - 
if the registered shares are issued in connection with the intended broadening of the shareholder constituency in certain financial or investor markets, for the purposes of the investment of strategic partners or in connection with the listing of the registered shares on domestic or foreign stock exchanges;
 - 
in connection with a placement or sale of registered shares, the grant of an over-allotment option of up to 20% of the total number of registered shares in a placement or sale of registered shares to the initial purchasers or underwriters;
 - 
for the participation of directors, executive officers, employees, contractors, consultants and other persons performing services for our benefit or that of our subsidiaries and affiliates; or
 - 
for purposes of the defense of an actual, threatened or potential unsolicited takeover bid, in relation to which our board of directors, upon consultation with an independent financial advisor, has not recommended acceptance to the shareholders.
        There is only limited precedent on whether the board of directors can be granted the ability to withdraw or limit preemptive rights in all of the circumstances described above. Swiss courts have not addressed the circumstances described in the first, third and seventh bullets above.
Withdrawal or Limitation of Advance Subscription Rights with Respect to Conditional Share Capital
        In connection with the issuance of bonds, notes, warrants or other financial instruments or contractual obligations convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for our registered shares, shareholders do not have preemptive rights, and our board of directors is authorized pursuant to our Proposed Swiss Articles to withdraw or limit the advance subscription rights of shareholders with respect to registered shares issued from our conditional share capital:
 - 
if the issuance is for purposes of the acquisition of an enterprise or business or the financing or refinancing of any such transactions;
 - 
if the issuance occurs in national or international capital markets;
 - 
if the issuance occurs through a private placement; or
 - 
for purposes of the defense of an actual, threatened or potential unsolicited takeover bid, in relation to which our board of directors, upon consultation with an independent financial adviser, has not recommended acceptance to the shareholders.
        There is only limited precedent on whether the board of directors can be granted the ability to withdraw or limit advance subscription rights in all of the circumstances described above. Swiss courts have not addressed the circumstances described in the third and fourth bullets above.
        If the advance subscription rights are withdrawn or limited:
 - 
the respective financial instruments or contractual obligations must be issued or entered into at market conditions;
 - 
the conversion, exchange or exercise price, if any, for instruments or obligations must be set with reference to the market conditions prevailing at the date on which the instruments or obligations are issued or entered into; and
 - 
the instruments or obligations may be converted, exercised or exchanged within a maximum period of 30 years from the date of issue.
        Preemptive and advance subscription rights are excluded with respect to issuances from our conditional share capital to directors, officers, employees and other persons providing services to Tyco Electronics or any of our subsidiaries or affiliates.
Dividends and Distributions
        Under Swiss law, dividends may be paid only if Tyco Electronics has sufficient distributable profits from the previous fiscal year, or if the corporation has freely distributable reserves, each as presented on the audited annual unconsolidated Swiss statutory balance sheet of Tyco Electronics Ltd. Payments out of the registered share capitalthe aggregate par value of a company's registered share capitalmust be made by way of a capital reduction. Contributed surplus (as determined for Swiss tax purposes) qualifies as freely distributable reserves and may be paid out as dividends to shareholders subject to certain conditions and to the extent permissible under the Swiss Code.
        The affirmative vote of shareholders holding a majority of the registered shares represented at a general meeting must approve reserve reclassifications and distributions of dividends. Distributions also may take the form of a distribution of cash or property that results in a reduction of our share capital recorded in the commercial register. Such a capital reduction requires the approval of shareholders holding a majority of the registered shares represented at the general meeting. A special audit report must confirm that creditors' claims remain fully covered by assets despite the reduction in the share capital recorded in the commercial register. Upon approval by the general meeting of shareholders of the capital reduction, the board of directors must give public notice of the capital reduction resolution in the Swiss Official Gazette of Commerce three times and notify creditors that they may request, within two months of the third publication, satisfaction of or security for their claims. Our board of directors may propose to shareholders that a distribution be made by way of a capital reduction or that a dividend be paid but the board of directors cannot itself authorize the distribution or dividend.
        Under the Swiss Code, if our general reserves amount to less than 20% of the share capital recorded in the commercial register, then at least 5% of our annual profit must be retained as general reserves. The Swiss Code and our Proposed Swiss Articles permit us to accrue additional general reserves. In addition, we are required to create a special reserve on our stand-alone annual statutory balance sheet in the amount of the purchase price of registered shares we or any of our subsidiaries owns and this amount may not be used for dividends or subsequent repurchases. See "Proposal No. 3Approval of an Increase in Our Registered Share Capital."
        Swiss corporations generally must maintain a separate company, unconsolidated "statutory" balance sheet for the purpose of determining the amounts available for the return of capital to shareholders, including by way of a distribution of dividends. Our auditor must confirm that a dividend proposal made to shareholders conforms with the requirements of the Swiss Code and our Proposed Swiss Articles. Dividends usually are due and payable shortly after the shareholders have passed a resolution approving the payment.
        We will be required under Swiss law to make any distributions which are in the form of a capital reduction out of registered share capital as denominated in Swiss francs. We intend to make any future distributions and dividend payments to holders of our shares in US dollars converted from Swiss francs at the relevant exchange rate. The transfer agent will be responsible for paying the US dollars to registered holders of shares, less amounts, if any, subject to Swiss withholding tax. We expect any dividend payments made after January 1, 2011 to be made out of contributed surplus (as determined for Swiss tax purposes) converted from Swiss francs into US dollars at the exchange rate in effect on the date of the relevant shareholder resolution. For information about deduction of Swiss withholding tax from dividend payments, see "Material Tax ConsiderationsSwiss Tax Considerations."
Repurchases of Registered Shares
        The Swiss Code limits a corporation's ability to hold or repurchase its own registered shares. We and our subsidiaries may only repurchase shares to the extent that sufficient freely distributable reserves (including contributed surplus as determined for Swiss tax purposes) are available. See "Dividends and Distributions." The aggregate par value of our registered shares held by us and our subsidiaries may not exceed 10% of our registered share capital. We may repurchase our registered shares beyond the statutory limit of 10%, however, only if the shareholders have adopted a resolution at a general meeting of shareholders authorizing the board of directors to repurchase registered shares in an amount in excess of 10% and the repurchased shares are dedicated for cancellation. Any registered shares repurchased pursuant to such an authorization will then be cancelled at the next general meeting upon the approval of shareholders holding a majority of the registered shares represented at the general meeting. Repurchased registered shares held by us or our subsidiaries do not carry any rights to vote at a general meeting of shareholders but are entitled to the economic benefits generally associated with the shares. For information about Swiss withholding tax and share repurchases, see "Material Tax ConsiderationsSwiss Tax ConsiderationsRepurchases of Shares."
General Meetings of Shareholders and Voting Rights
General Meetings of Shareholders
        The general meeting of shareholders is our supreme corporate body. Ordinary and extraordinary shareholders meetings may be held. The following powers will be vested exclusively in the shareholders meeting:
 - 
adoption and amendment of our articles of association;
 - 
election of members of the board of directors and the auditor;
 - 
approval of the annual business report, the unconsolidated Swiss statutory financial statements and the consolidated financial statements;
 - 
payments of dividends and any other distributions of capital to shareholders;
 - 
discharge of the members of the board of directors from liability for business conduct during the previous fiscal year to the extent such conduct is known to the shareholders; and
 - 
any other resolutions that are submitted to a general meeting of shareholders pursuant to law, our articles of association or by voluntary submission by the board of directors, unless a matter is within the exclusive competence of the board of directors pursuant to the Swiss Code.
        Under the Swiss Code and our Proposed Swiss Articles, we must hold an annual, ordinary general meeting of shareholders within six months after the end of our fiscal year for the purpose of approving the annual financial statements and the annual business report and the annual election of directors. The invitation to general meetings must be published in the Swiss Official Gazette of Commerce at least 20 calendar days prior to the relevant general meeting of shareholders. The notice of a meeting
must state the items on the agenda and the proposals of the board of directors and of the shareholders who demanded that a shareholders meeting be held or that an item be included on the agenda and, in the case of an election of directors, the names of the nominated candidates. No resolutions may be passed at a shareholders meeting concerning agenda items for which proper notice was not given, except for proposals made during a shareholders meeting to convene an extraordinary shareholders meeting or to initiate a special investigation (described below). No previous notification will be required for proposals concerning items included on the agenda or for items for general discussion at the meeting as to which no vote is taken.
        Annual general meetings of shareholders may be convened by the board of directors or, under certain circumstances, by the auditor. A general meeting of shareholders can be held anywhere.
        An extraordinary general meeting of shareholders may be called upon the resolution of our board of directors or, under certain circumstances, by the auditor. In addition, our board of directors is required to convene an extraordinary general meeting of shareholders if so resolved by the general meeting of shareholders, or if so requested by shareholders holding an aggregate of at least 10% of the registered shares, specifying the items for the agenda and their proposals, or if it appears to the board of directors from the stand-alone annual statutory balance sheet that half of our share capital and reserves are not covered by our assets. In the latter case, our board of directors immediately must convene an extraordinary general meeting of shareholders and propose financial restructuring measures.
        Under our Proposed Swiss Articles, any shareholder in compliance with the legal requirements may request that an item be included on the agenda of a general meeting of shareholders and may nominate one or more directors for election. A request for inclusion of an item on the agenda or a nominee must be in writing, must specify the items and proposals and certain other information, and must be submitted in accordance with certain advance notice procedures, which generally require such requests to be received by us at least 120 calendar days before the first anniversary of the date that our proxy statement was released to shareholders in connection with the previous year's annual general meeting. No prior notice is required to bring proposals (including the nomination of persons for election to the board of directors) prior to or at a general meeting of shareholders where such proposals relate to items that are already included on the agenda for that meeting.
        Under the Swiss Code, a general meeting of shareholders for which a notice of meeting has been duly published may not be adjourned without publishing a new notice of meeting.
        Our annual report and auditor's report must be made available for inspection by the shareholders at our place of incorporation no later than 20 calendar days prior to the meeting. Each shareholder is entitled to request immediate delivery of a copy of these documents free of charge. Shareholders of record will be notified of this in writing.
Voting
        Each registered share carries one vote at a general meeting of shareholders. Voting rights may be exercised by shareholders registered in the share register as a shareholder with voting rights or by a duly appointed proxy of such a registered shareholder, which proxy need not be a shareholder, in each case subject to certain limitations (see "Limitation on Voting Rights"). Our Proposed Swiss Articles contain a provision regarding voting rights that is required by Swiss law for Swiss companies that issue registered shares (as opposed to bearer shares). This provision provides that, to be able to exercise voting rights, holders of shares must apply to us for enrollment in our share register (
Aktienbuch
) as shareholders with voting rights. Registered holders of shares may obtain the form of declaration from our transfer agent, which we expect will be BNY Mellon Shareowner Services after the Swiss Continuation. In order to exercise their voting rights, shareholders will be required to disclose their name and address and that they have acquired their shares in their name and for their account in order
to be recorded in our share register as shareholders with voting rights. Persons not expressly declaring themselves to be holding shares for their own account in the application for entry in the share register will not be registered as shareholders with voting rights. Certain exceptions exist with regard to nominees. Legal entities or partnerships or other associations or joint ownership arrangements which are linked through capital ownership or voting rights, through common management or in like manner, as well as individuals, legal entities or partnerships (especially syndicates) which act in concert with intent to evade the entry restrictions are considered as one shareholder or nominee. Failing registration as a shareholder with voting rights, shareholders may not participate in or vote at our shareholders' meetings, but will be entitled to dividends, distributions, preemptive rights, advance subscription rights and liquidation proceeds. Only shareholders that are registered as shareholders with voting rights on the relevant record date are permitted to participate in and vote at a general shareholders' meeting.
        Treasury shares, whether owned by us or one of our majority-owned subsidiaries, will not be entitled to vote at general meetings of shareholders.
        Pursuant to our Proposed Swiss Articles, shareholders generally pass resolutions and elect directors and auditors by the affirmative vote of an absolute majority of the registered shares represented at the general meeting of shareholders unless otherwise provided by law or our articles of association. An absolute majority means at least half plus one additional vote represented at the meeting.
        With respect to the election of directors, each holder of registered shares entitled to vote at the election has the right to vote, in person or by proxy, the number of registered shares held by him and entitled to vote for as many persons as there are directors to be elected. Our Proposed Swiss Articles do not provide for cumulative voting for the election of directors.
        The chairperson of the general meeting may direct that elections be held by use of an electronic voting system. Electronic resolutions and elections are considered equal to resolutions and elections taken by way of a written ballot.
Limitation on Voting Rights
        Subject to certain exemptions, and if Proposal No. 12 is approved, our Proposed Swiss Articles will limit the number of registered shares that may be voted by a single shareholder or a group of shareholders acting in concert to 15% of our registered share capital. In particular, no shareholder may be registered in the share register as a shareholder with voting rights for more than 15% of the registered share capital, and no shareholder may cast votes at a general meeting of shareholders in excess of 15% of the registered share capital. To avoid circumventions of these registration and voting limitations, persons acting in concert are counted as one person.
Supermajority Voting
        The Swiss Code and our Proposed Swiss Articles require the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the voting rights and a majority of the par value of the registered shares, each as represented at a general meeting, to approve the following matters:
 - 
the amendment to or the modification of our corporate purpose;
 - 
the creation of shares with preferred voting rights;
 - 
the restriction on the registration of shares and, if Proposal No. 13 is approved, any amendment in relation thereto;
 - 
if Proposal No. 12 is approved, the restriction on the exercise of the right to vote and, if Proposal No. 13 is approved, any amendment in relation thereto;
 - 
an authorized or conditional increase in the nominal share capital;
 - 
an increase in the nominal share capital through the conversion of capital surplus, through a contribution in kind, or in exchange for an acquisition of assets, or a grant of special privileges;
 - 
the restriction or withdrawal of preemptive or advance subscription rights;
 - 
a change in our place of incorporation;
 - 
our dissolution;
 - 
a merger, demerger, conversion or other transaction as enumerated in Switzerland's Federal Act on Mergers, Demergers, Transformations and the Transfer of Assets (the "Merger Act") to the extent required by the Merger Act; and
 - 
if Proposal No. 13 is approved, the amendment of certain articles which relate to restrictions on the registration and voting of our shares, and certain other provisions.
        As discussed below, under "Anti-Takeover Provisions," certain supermajority voting requirements apply to business combinations and similar transactions.
        Moreover, under our Proposed Swiss Articles, the approval of the amendment of certain articles (which relate to the inability of shareholders to act by written consent, certain restrictions on business combinations with "interested persons" and the vote required for amendment of these two provisions) require approval by the affirmative vote of 80% of the outstanding shares entitled to vote on the relevant record date.
        In addition, our Proposed Swiss Articles provide that the removal of a member of the board of directors shall require the resolution of the general meeting of shareholders passed by at least the majority of the votes of all existing shares entitled to vote.
Quorum for General Meetings
        According to our Proposed Swiss Articles, all resolutions and elections made by the shareholders' meeting require the presence of half plus one of all shares entitled to vote. Under the Swiss Code, the board of directors has no authority to waive quorum requirements stipulated in a company's articles of association.
Inspection of Books and Records
        Under the Swiss Code, a shareholder has a right to inspect the share register with regard to his own shares and otherwise to the extent necessary to exercise his shareholder rights. No other person has a right to inspect the share register. The books and correspondence of a Swiss corporation may be inspected with the express authorization of the general meeting of shareholders or by resolution of the board of directors and subject to the safeguarding of the company's business secrets. At a general meeting of shareholders, any shareholder is entitled to request information from the board of directors concerning the affairs of the company. Shareholders also may ask the auditor questions regarding its audit of the company. The board of directors and the auditor must answer shareholders' questions to the extent necessary for the exercise of shareholders' rights and subject to the need to protect business secrets or other material interests of the corporation.
Special Investigation
        Any shareholder may propose to the general meeting of shareholders that specific facts be examined by a special commissioner in a special investigation if this is necessary for the exercise of shareholder rights. If the general meeting of shareholders approves the proposal, we or any shareholder, within 30 calendar days after the general meeting of shareholders, may request the court at our registered office to appoint a special commissioner. If the general meeting of shareholders
rejects the request, one or more shareholders representing at least 10% of the share capital or holders of registered shares in an aggregate par value of at least two million Swiss francs may request the court to appoint a special commissioner. The court will issue such an order if the petitioners can demonstrate that the board of directors, any member of the board or an officer infringed the law or our articles of association and thereby damaged us or our shareholders. The costs of the investigation generally would be allocated to us and only in exceptional cases to the petitioners.
Compulsory Acquisitions; Appraisal Rights
        Business combinations and other transactions that are binding on all shareholders are governed by the Merger Act. A statutory merger or demerger requires that at least two-thirds of the voting rights and a majority of the par value of the registered shares represented at the general meeting of shareholders vote in favor of the transaction. Under the Merger Act, a "demerger" may take two forms:
 - 
a legal entity may divide all of its assets and transfer such assets to other legal entities, with the shareholders of the transferring entity receiving equity securities in the acquiring entities and the transferring entity dissolving upon deregistration in the commercial register; or
 - 
a legal entity may transfer all or a portion of its assets to other legal entities, with the shareholders of the transferring entity receiving equity securities in the acquiring entities and retaining their equity securities in the transferring entity.
        If a transaction under the Merger Act receives all of the necessary consents, all shareholders would be compelled to participate in the transaction. See "General Meetings of Shareholders and Voting Rights."
        Swiss corporations may be acquired through the direct acquisition of their share capital. With respect to corporations limited by shares, the Merger Act provides for the possibility of a so-called "cash-out" or "squeeze-out" merger if the acquirer holds 90% of the outstanding registered shares. In these limited circumstances, minority shareholders of the corporation being acquired may be compensated in a form other than through shares of the acquiring corporation, for instance, through cash or securities of a parent corporation of the acquiring corporation or of another corporation. For business combinations effected in the form of a statutory merger or demerger and subject to Swiss law, the Merger Act provides that, if the equity rights have not been adequately preserved or compensation payments in the transaction are unreasonable, a shareholder may request the competent court to determine a reasonable amount of compensation.
        In addition, under Swiss law, the sale of the overwhelming part of the corporation's assets may require a resolution of the general meeting of shareholders passed by holders of at least two-thirds of the voting rights and a majority of the par value of the registered shares, each as represented at the general meeting of shareholders. Whether or not a shareholder resolution is required depends on the particular transaction, including whether the following test is satisfied:
 - 
the corporation sells a core part of its business, without which it is economically impracticable or unreasonable to continue to operate the remaining business;
 - 
the corporation's assets, after the divestment, are not invested in accordance with the corporation's statutory business purpose; and
 - 
the proceeds of the divestment are not earmarked for reinvestment in accordance with the corporation's business purpose but, instead, are intended for distribution to shareholders or for financial investments unrelated to the corporation's business.
        If all of the foregoing apply, a shareholder resolution likely would be required.
Anti-Takeover Provisions
        Our Proposed Swiss Articles contain provisions that could be considered anti-takeover provisions because they would make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our incumbent board of directors.
        Subject to certain exemptions, and if Proposal No. 12 is approved, our Proposed Swiss Articles will limit the number of registered shares that may be registered and/or voted by a single shareholder or group of shareholders acting together to 15% of our registered share capital.
        Our Proposed Swiss Articles authorize our board of directors to issue new registered shares from authorized or conditional capital (in either case, representing a maximum of 50% of the share capital registered in the commercial register), without shareholder approval and without regard for shareholders' preemptive rights or advance subscription rights, for the purpose of the defense of an actual, threatened or potential unsolicited takeover bid, in relation to which the board of directors, upon consultation with an independent financial advisor, has not recommended acceptance to the shareholders. In the case of issuances from authorized capital, this authorization will expire at the end of an initial two-year period ending on the second anniversary of the Special General Meeting (expected to be June 22, 2011), and any subsequent two-year period, unless re-authorized each time by shareholders. In addition, the New York Stock Exchange, on which our shares are and will continue to be listed, requires shareholder approval for issuances of shares equal to 20% or more of the outstanding shares or voting power, with limited exceptions.
        As is the case with our current Bye-laws, our Proposed Swiss Articles require a special supermajority for any resolution of the general meeting of shareholders to engage in a business combination with an "interested shareholder" (one who acquired 15% or more of the share capital recorded in the commercial register without prior approval of the board of directors) for a period of three years following the time that such person became a 15% shareholder, subject to certain exceptions discussed below. The supermajority required is the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the shares entitled to vote which are not owned by the interested shareholder. Such a vote will not be required if:
 - 
the board of directors approved the business combination prior to the time the shareholder became an interested shareholder; or
 - 
upon consummation of the transaction which resulted in the shareholder becoming an interested shareholder, the interested shareholder owned at least 85% of the voting shares outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding for purposes of determining the voting shares outstanding (but not the outstanding voting shares owned by the interested shareholders) those shares owned (i) by persons who are directors and also officers and (ii) employee share plans in which employee participants do not have the right to determine confidentially whether shares held subject to the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer.
        Also, as is the case with our current Bye-laws, our Proposed Swiss Articles provide that shareholders may act only at general meetings and not by written consent and, subject to certain exceptions, shareholders must comply with advance notice provisions for nominating directors or presenting other proposals at general meetings.
Corporate Governance
        In addition to articles of association, Swiss corporations enact organization rules in the form of organizational regulations which further define the task and duties of the board of directors and executive management. The organizational regulations are enacted and amended by the board of directors. The Proposed Organizational Regulations that our board of directors is expected to enact immediately following the Swiss Continuation are attached hereto as Annex B. To the extent possible
under Swiss law, these organizational regulations are consistent with the analogous provisions in our current Bye-laws. The significant differences between our Proposed Swiss Articles and Proposed Organizational Regulations and our current Bye-laws are included in the discussion under "Comparison of Shareholder Rights Before and After the Swiss Continuation."
Duration; Dissolution; Rights upon Liquidation
        Our duration is unlimited. We may be dissolved at any time with the approval of shareholders holding two-thirds of the voting rights and a majority of the par value of the registered shares represented at a general meeting. Dissolution by court order is possible if we become bankrupt, or for cause at the request of shareholders holding at least 10% of our registered share capital. Under Swiss law, any surplus arising out of liquidation, after the settlement of all claims of all creditors, will be distributed to shareholders in proportion to the paid-up par value of registered shares held, subject to Swiss withholding tax requirements.
Uncertificated and Certificated Shares
        We are authorized to issue registered shares in certificated or uncertificated form.
Stock Exchange Listing
        Upon the completion of the Swiss Continuation, we expect our registered shares to continue to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange and trade under the symbol "TEL." We do not plan to continue to list our shares on the Bermuda Stock Exchange after the Swiss Continuation.
No Sinking Fund
        The registered shares have no sinking fund provisions.
No Liability for Further Calls or Assessments
        The registered shares will be duly and validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable.
No Redemption or Conversion
        The registered shares are not convertible into shares of any other class or series or subject to redemption either by us or by the holder of the shares.
Transfer and Registration of Shares
        We have not imposed any restrictions applicable to the transfer of our registered shares, with the exception of the registration of shares and of voting rights (see "General Meetings of Shareholders and Voting RightsLimitation on Voting Rights"). Our share register will initially be kept by BNY Mellon Shareowner Services, which acts as transfer agent and registrar. The share register reflects only record owners of our shares. Swiss law does not recognize fractional share interests.
        
Your current rights as a shareholder are governed by Bermuda law and our memorandum of association and Bye-laws. After the Swiss Continuation, your rights will be governed by Swiss law and our articles of association and organizational regulations.
        
Many of the attributes of our shares will be similar before and after the Swiss Continuation. There will be differences, however, between your rights under Swiss law and your rights under the corporate statutory and common law of Bermuda. Bermuda corporate statutory law is modeled on certain provisions of the corporate statutory law of England and Wales and the common law of England and Wales is highly persuasive authority as to questions of Bermuda common law. In addition, there are differences between our current Bermuda memorandum of association and Bye-laws and our Proposed Swiss Articles and Proposed Organizational Regulations. There are no material differences between these documents (other than the matters being presented to shareholders separately in Proposals No. 12 and No. 13) except for changes (i) that are required by Swiss law (i.e., certain provisions of the Bye-Laws were not replicated in the Proposed Swiss Articles because Swiss law would not permit such replication, and certain provisions were included in the Proposed Swiss Articles although they were not in the Bye-Laws because Swiss law requires such provisions to be included in the articles of association of a Swiss public company), or (ii) that are necessary in order to preserve the current rights of shareholders and powers of the board of directors of the company following the Swiss Continuation.
        
The following discussion is a summary of material changes in your rights resulting from the Swiss Continuation. This summary is not complete and does not cover all of the differences between Swiss law and Bermuda law affecting companies and their shareholders or all the differences between our Bermuda memorandum of association and Bye-laws and our Proposed Swiss Articles and Proposed Organizational Regulations. It is subject to the complete text of the relevant provisions of the Swiss Code, in particular articles 620 through 763 of the Swiss Code and the Merger Act, the Bermuda Companies Act, our Bermuda memorandum of association and Bye-laws and our Proposed Swiss Articles and Proposed Organizational Regulations, which are attached to this proxy statement/prospectus as Annex A and Annex B. We encourage you to read these materials. For information as to how you can obtain our Bermuda memorandum of association and Bye-laws, see "Where You Can Find More Information."
        
In the discussion below, we refer to Tyco Electronics Ltd. as currently incorporated in Bermuda as "Tyco Electronics (Bermuda)" and as proposed to be incorporated in Switzerland as "Tyco Electronics (Switzerland)."
Effect on Registered and Beneficial Shareholders
        To give effect to the Swiss Continuation, we will treat shareholders holding our shares in "street name," through a bank, broker or other nominee, in the same manner as registered shareholders whose shares are registered in their names. Banks, brokers or other nominees will be instructed to effect the Swiss Continuation for their beneficial holders holding our shares in "street name." These banks, brokers or other nominees may apply their own specific procedures for processing the Swiss Continuation. If you hold your shares with a bank, broker or other nominee, and if you have any questions in this regard, we encourage you to contact your nominee.
Effect on Registered "Book-Entry" Shareholders
        Our registered shareholders may hold some or all of their shares electronically in book-entry form. These shareholders will not have share certificates evidencing their ownership of our shares. They are, however, provided with a statement reflecting the number of shares registered in their accounts.
 - 
If you hold registered shares in book-entry form, you do not need to take any action.
 - 
A transaction statement will automatically be sent to your address of record indicating the number of shares you hold.
Effect on Registered Certificated Shares
        Some registered shareholders hold all their shares in certificated form or a combination of certificated and book-entry form. If any of your shares are held in certificated form, you will receive a transmittal letter from our transfer agent as soon as practicable after the effective date of the Swiss Continuation. The letter of transmittal will contain instructions on how to surrender your certificate(s) representing your shares to the transfer agent. Upon receipt of your share certificate, you will be issued the appropriate number of shares electronically in book-entry form or, if you so choose, in certificated form.
Procedure for Effecting the Swiss Continuation
        If the shareholders approve the Swiss Continuation Proposal, the Supermajority Elimination Proposal and the Swiss Organizational Proposals and the board of directors decides to implement the Swiss Continuation, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth under "The Swiss Continuation and Related ProposalsConditions to Consummation of the Swiss Continuation," it will become effective promptly following the filing of the requisite documents with the Commercial Register in the Canton of Schaffhausen, Switzerland, on a date determined by the board of directors in accordance with Section 132G and 132H of the Bermuda Companies Act, article 161 of the Swiss Federal Code on International Private Law and articles 620 et seq. of the Swiss Code. Beginning on the effective date, each certificate representing pre-Swiss Continuation shares will be deemed for all corporate purposes to evidence ownership of post-Swiss Continuation shares.
Tax Consequences of the Swiss Continuation
        The tax consequences of the Swiss Continuation to you may be complex and will depend on your specific situation. See "Material Tax Considerations." You are urged to consult your tax advisor for a full understanding of the tax consequences to you of the Swiss Continuation.
        The information presented in this summary is a discussion of certain material U.S. federal income tax, Swiss tax and Bermuda tax consequences of the Swiss Continuation and the increase in registered share capital to our shareholders and to us.
        
You should consult your own tax advisor regarding the applicable tax consequences to you of the Swiss Continuation, the increase in registered share capital and of ownership and disposition of our shares under the laws of the United States (federal, state and local), Switzerland, Bermuda, and any other applicable jurisdiction.
U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations
Scope of Discussion
        This discussion generally does not address any aspects of U.S. taxation other than U.S. federal income taxation, is not a complete analysis or listing of all of the possible tax consequences of the Swiss Continuation, the increase in registered share capital or of holding and disposing of our shares, and does not address all tax considerations that may be relevant to you. Special rules that are not discussed in the general descriptions below also may apply to you. In particular, this discussion deals only with holders that hold their shares as capital assets and does not address the tax treatment of special classes of holders, such as:
 - 
a holder who, at any time within the five-year period ending on the date of the Swiss Continuation, actually or constructively owned 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of our stock entitled to vote or who, at any time after the Swiss Continuation, actually or constructively owns 10% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of our stock entitled to vote;
 - 
a bank or other financial institution;
 - 
a tax-exempt entity;
 - 
an insurance company;
 - 
a partnership, including any entity or arrangement treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes;
 - 
a person holding shares as part of a "straddle," "hedge," "integrated transaction," or "conversion transaction;"
 - 
a person holding shares through a partnership or other pass-through entity (including any entity or arrangement treated as a partnership or other pass-through entity for U.S. federal income tax purposes);
 - 
a U.S. expatriate;
 - 
a person who is liable for alternative minimum tax;
 - 
a broker-dealer or trader in securities or currencies;
 - 
a U.S. holder whose "functional currency" is not the US dollar;
 - 
a regulated investment company;
 - 
a real estate investment trust;
 - 
a trader in securities who has elected the mark-to-market method of accounting for its securities;
 - 
a holder who received our shares through the exercise of employee stock options or otherwise as compensation or through a tax-qualified retirement plan; or
 - 
a non-corporate holder who, because of limitations under the U.S. securities laws or other legal limitations, is not free to dispose of our shares without restriction.
        This discussion is based on the laws of the United States, including the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which we refer to as the "U.S. Code," its legislative history, existing and proposed Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, judicial decisions, published rulings, administrative pronouncements, and the U.S.-Swiss Treaty, each as in effect on the date of this proxy statement/prospectus. These laws may change, possibly with retroactive effect. There can be no assurance that the United States Internal Revenue Service, which we refer to as the "IRS," will not disagree with or will not successfully challenge any of the conclusions reached and described in this discussion.
        For purposes of this discussion, a "U.S. holder" is any beneficial owner of our shares that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, is:
 - 
an individual citizen or individual resident of the United States,
 - 
a corporation or other entity taxable as a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof including the District of Columbia,
 - 
an estate or trust, the income of which is subject to U.S. federal income taxation regardless of its source, or
 - 
a trust, if a court within the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over its administration and one or more U.S. persons have the authority to control all of its substantial decisions, or in certain cases, that has elected to be treated as a domestic trust.
        A "non-U.S. holder" of shares is a beneficial owner of our shares that is neither a U.S. holder nor a partnership (nor any other entity or arrangement treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes). For purposes of this summary, "holder" or "shareholder" means either a U.S. holder or a non-U.S. holder or both, as the context may require.
        If a partnership (including any entity or arrangement treated as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes) is a beneficial owner of shares, the tax treatment of a partner in that partnership generally will depend on the status of the partner and the activities of the partnership. Partnerships that hold shares, and partners in those partnerships, are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the U.S. federal income tax consequences to them of the Swiss Continuation, the increase in registered share capital and the ownership and disposition of our shares.
        In the discussion that follows, except as otherwise indicated, it is assumed, as we believe to be the case, that we have not been, and will not be, a passive foreign investment company before the Swiss Continuation and that we will not be a passive foreign investment company after the Swiss Continuation. See "U.S. HoldersPassive Foreign Investment Company Considerations." It is also assumed, as we expect to be the case, that we will continue to be a foreign corporation for the foreseeable future.
Tyco Electronics
Consequences of the Increase in Registered Share Capital and Swiss Continuation
        Increase in Registered Share Capital.
    In connection with, and subject to, the Swiss Continuation, our board of directors has approved several steps under the Bermuda Companies Act to increase our registered share capital. These steps include an approximately 1-for-12 reverse share split, followed by the issuance of approximately 11 fully paid-up bonus shares per issued share at the new par value of
US$ 2.40 per share. The bonus share issuance will be paid by capitalizing a portion of contributed surplus. Giving effect to these steps, each shareholder will hold the same number of shares, with an increased par value, immediately following the Swiss Continuation as such shareholder held before the Swiss Continuation. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, these two steps should be combined such that holders will be treated as exchanging their existing shares for new shares with an increased par value, a characterization that we refer to as the "Exchange." Based on this characterization, the Exchange will constitute a "reorganization" under Section 368(a)(1)(E) of the U.S. Code, which we refer to as a "Recapitalization." Accordingly, we will not recognize gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of the increase of registered share capital.
        Swiss Continuation.
    The Swiss Continuation will occur by way of a change in place of incorporation under the corporate laws of both Bermuda and Switzerland. The Swiss Continuation will constitute a "reorganization" under Section 368(a)(1)(F) of the U.S. Code, which we refer to as an "F Reorganization." Pursuant to the U.S. Code and the Treasury regulations, Tyco Electronics (Bermuda) will be treated as transferring all of its assets to Tyco Electronics (Switzerland) in exchange for Tyco Electronics (Switzerland) shares and the assumption by Tyco Electronics (Switzerland) of all liabilities of Tyco Electronics (Bermuda). The Tyco Electronics (Switzerland) shares in turn will be treated as having been distributed to our shareholders in exchange for their Tyco Electronics (Bermuda) shares.
U.S. Holders
Consequences of the Increase in Registered Share Capital and Swiss Continuation
        Increase in Registered Share Capital.
    As discussed above, the Exchange will constitute a Recapitalization. In addition, as to U.S. holders of our shares, the Exchange will constitute a tax-free exchange under Section 1036 of the U.S. Code. As a result, U.S. holders will not recognize taxable gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes on the increase in registered share capital. Further, there are no reporting requirements under the U.S. Code or the Treasury regulations for U.S. holders under either characterization. A U.S. holder's basis and holding period in its shares after the increase in registered share capital will be the same as such holder's basis and holding period in its shares before the increase in registered share capital. We urge U.S. holders who hold their shares with differing bases or holding periods to consult their tax advisors with regard to identifying the bases and holding periods of their shares after the increase in the registered share capital.
        Swiss Continuation.
    As discussed above, the Swiss Continuation will constitute an F Reorganization in which a U.S. holder will be deemed to exchange its shares in Tyco Electronics (Bermuda) for shares in Tyco Electronics (Switzerland). Under the U.S. Code and Treasury regulations, U.S. holders generally will not recognize taxable gain or loss upon the deemed exchange of Tyco Electronics (Bermuda) shares solely for Tyco Electronics (Switzerland) shares, although U.S. holders that own, or are treated as owning for U.S. federal income tax purposes, 5 percent or more of our shares immediately after the Swiss Continuation may be required to file a "gain recognition agreement" with the IRS in order to preserve the tax-free treatment of the Swiss Continuation to them. U.S. holders that own, or are treated as owning for U.S. federal income tax purposes, 5 percent or more of our shares should consult their own tax advisors to determine whether to file such an agreement.
        A U.S. holder's basis and holding period in its shares after the Swiss Continuation generally will be the same as such holder's basis and holding period in its shares before the Swiss Continuation. We urge U.S. holders who hold their shares with differing bases or holding periods to consult their tax advisors with regard to identifying the bases and holding periods of their shares after the Swiss Continuation.
Taxation of Distributions on Our Shares
        Following the Swiss Continuation, the gross amount of any distribution paid with respect to our shares, including any Swiss withholding tax on such amount, will be a dividend for U.S. federal income tax purposes to the extent of current or accumulated earnings and profits (as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes). Although the resolutions authorizing distributions will be stated in Swiss francs, the Swiss franc amounts will be converted into US dollar amounts on the date of resolution and distribution will be made in US dollars. The amount of any distribution included in income by a U.S. holder will be the US dollar amounts received by such U.S. holder on the date of such distributions.
        With respect to non-corporate U.S. holders, under current law certain dividends received from a "qualified foreign corporation" will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at a maximum rate of 15%. In general, we will be treated as a qualified foreign corporation if our shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange or certain other exchanges or we qualify for benefits under the U.S.-Swiss Treaty. Our shares will continue to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange following the Swiss Continuation. This reduced rate is subject to a non-corporate U.S. holder's satisfaction of certain holding period and other applicable requirements, and is not available for dividends paid by a passive foreign investment company (as described below) or in certain other situations. Furthermore, this reduced rate is scheduled to expire for dividends received in taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2011.
        U.S. holders should consult their own tax advisors regarding the application of the relevant rules to their particular circumstances. Dividends received by a corporate U.S. holder generally will not be eligible for the dividends received deduction that is allowed to U.S. corporate shareholders on dividends received from a U.S. corporation.
        To the extent that a distribution paid with respect to our shares exceeds our current and accumulated earnings and profits (as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes), it will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of the shareholder's basis in the shares, and thereafter generally should be treated as a capital gain. Special rules not here described may apply to shareholders who do not have a uniform basis and holding period in all of their shares. Any such shareholders should consult their own tax advisors.
        Subject to complex limitations, any Swiss withholding tax imposed on distributions to shareholders will be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a foreign tax that may be claimed as a foreign tax credit against the U.S. federal income tax liability of a U.S. holder. Any dividends (as determined under U.S. federal income tax principles) we pay to you generally would be treated as foreign source income, which may be relevant in calculating your foreign tax credit limitation. It is possible for a portion of any such dividends to be treated as U.S. source passive income instead of foreign source income if and to the extent that more than a
de minimis
amount of our earnings and profits out of which such dividends are paid is from sources within the United States, or under certain other circumstances that we consider unlikely to arise. You generally would not be able to claim a foreign tax credit with respect to Swiss withholding tax imposed on distributions that are treated as U.S. source income unless you have other passive foreign source income as to which a foreign tax credit is not being claimed. In addition, in the case of a non-corporate U.S. holder, special rules apply in determining the foreign tax credit limitation with respect to qualified dividend income that is subject to the maximum 15% tax rate.
        The rules relating to the determination of the foreign tax credit are complex, and you should consult your own tax advisors to determine whether and to what extent a foreign tax credit would be available. In lieu of claiming a foreign tax credit, U.S. holders may claim a deduction for foreign taxes paid during a taxable year. Unlike a tax credit, a deduction generally does not reduce U.S. federal income tax on a dollar-for-dollar basis.
Dispositions of Shares
        U.S. holders generally should recognize capital gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes on the sale, exchange, or other disposition of our shares in the same manner as on the sale, exchange, or other disposition of any other shares held as capital assets. Under current law, long-term capital gain of non-corporate U.S. holders is subject to U.S. federal income tax at a maximum rate of 15%. However, this reduced rate is scheduled to expire effective for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2011. There are limitations on the deductibility of capital losses. Gain, if any, generally will be U.S. source gain and generally will constitute passive income for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations
        The treatment of U.S. holders in some cases could be materially different from that described above if, at any relevant time, we were regarded as a passive foreign investment company, which we refer to as a "PFIC." For U.S. federal income tax purposes, a foreign corporation is classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (1) 75% or more of its gross income is passive income (as defined for U.S. federal income tax purposes) or (2) the average percentage of its assets that produce passive income or that are held for the production of passive income is at least 50%. For purposes of applying the tests in the preceding sentence, the foreign corporation is deemed to own its proportionate share of the assets of and to receive directly its proportionate share of the income of any other corporation of which the foreign corporation owns, directly or indirectly, at least 25% (by total value) of the stock.
        Classification of a foreign corporation as a PFIC can have various adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to shareholders of the corporation who are "United States persons," as defined in the U.S. Code. These consequences include taxation of gain on a sale or other disposition of the shares of the corporation at the maximum ordinary income rates and imposition of an interest charge on such gain or on distributions with respect to the shares. In addition, dividends paid by a PFIC are not eligible to be taxed at the reduced rates for non-corporate shareholders described above.
        We believe that we have not been a PFIC in any prior taxable year, and we do not expect that we will be a PFIC in the taxable year in which the Swiss Continuation will occur. Furthermore, we do not believe that we will be a PFIC following the Swiss Continuation. However, the tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually, and it is difficult to predict future income and assets relevant to this determination. Accordingly, we cannot assure U.S. holders that we will not become a PFIC. If we should determine in the future that we are a PFIC, we will endeavor to so notify U.S. holders, although there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in a timely and complete manner. U.S. holders should consult their own tax advisors about the PFIC rules, including the availability of certain elections.
Information Reporting and Backup Withholding on Distributions and Disposition Proceeds with Respect to Shares
        Dividends on our shares paid within the United States or through certain U.S.-related financial intermediaries are subject to information reporting requirements and may be subject to backup withholding (currently at a 28% rate) unless the holder (1) is a corporation or other exempt recipient or (2) provides a taxpayer identification number and satisfies certain certification requirements. Information reporting requirements and backup withholding also may apply to the cash proceeds of a sale of our shares. Any amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules may be allowed as a refundable credit against the holder's U.S. federal income tax liability, provided that the holder furnishes certain required information to the IRS.
        In addition to being subject to backup withholding, if a U.S. holder does not provide us (or our paying agent) with the holder's correct taxpayer identification number or other required information, the holder may be subject to penalties imposed by the IRS.
Non-U.S. Holders
Consequences of the Increase in Registered Share Capital, Swiss Continuation and Subsequent Disposition of the Shares
        In general, a non-U.S. holder will not be subject to U.S. federal income or withholding tax as a result of the Swiss Continuation or increase in registered share capital and will not be subject to U.S. federal income or withholding tax on any gain recognized on a subsequent disposition of our shares, unless (1) such gain is effectively connected with the holder's conduct of a trade or business in the United States and, if a tax treaty applies, such gain is attributable to a permanent establishment or fixed place of business maintained by such holder in the United States, (2) in the case of capital gain of a holder who is an individual, such holder is present in the United States for 183 days or more during the taxable year in which the capital gain is recognized and certain other conditions are met, or (3) such holder is subject to backup withholding.
Taxation of Distributions on the Shares
        A non-U.S. holder generally is not expected to be subject to U.S. federal income tax on distributions paid with respect to our shares if such distributions are treated as dividends under U.S. federal income tax principles, unless (1) the dividends are effectively connected with the holder's conduct of a trade or business in the United States and, if a tax treaty applies, the dividends are attributable to a permanent establishment or fixed place of business maintained by the holder in the United States or (2) such holder is subject to backup withholding.
        Except to the extent otherwise provided under an applicable tax treaty, a non-U.S. holder generally will be taxed in the same manner as a U.S. holder on dividends paid and gains recognized that are effectively connected with the holder's conduct of a trade or business in the United States. Also, under certain circumstances, effectively connected dividends received and gains recognized by a corporate non-U.S. holder may be subject to an additional "branch profits tax" at a 30% rate (or, if applicable, a lower treaty rate), subject to certain adjustments.
Information Reporting and Backup Withholding on Distributions and Disposition Proceeds with Respect to Shares
        In order to not be subject to backup withholding tax on distributions and disposition proceeds with respect to our shares, a non-U.S. holder may be required to provide a taxpayer identification number, certify the holder's foreign status, or otherwise establish an exemption. Non-U.S. holders of shares should consult their tax advisors regarding information reporting and backup withholding requirements in their particular situations, the availability of an exemption, and the procedure for obtaining such an exemption, if available. Any amount withheld from a payment to a non-U.S. holder under the backup withholding rules may be allowed as a refundable credit against the holder's U.S. federal income tax liability, provided that the holder furnishes certain required information to the IRS.
Swiss Tax Considerations
Scope of Discussion
        This discussion does not generally address any aspects of Swiss taxation other than federal, cantonal and communal income taxation, federal withholding taxation, and federal stamp duty. This discussion is not a complete analysis or listing of all of the possible tax consequences of the Swiss
Continuation, of the increase in registered share capital, or of holding and disposing of our shares and does not address all tax considerations that may be relevant to you. Special rules that are not discussed in the general descriptions below may also apply to you.
        This discussion is based on the laws of the Confederation of Switzerland, including the Federal Income Tax Act of 1990, the Federal Harmonization of Cantonal and Communal Income Tax Act of 1990, The Federal Withholding Tax Act of 1965, the Federal Stamp Duty Act of 1973, as amended, which we refer to collectively as the "Swiss tax law," existing and proposed regulations promulgated thereunder, published judicial decisions and administrative pronouncements, each as in effect on the date of this proxy statement/prospectus or with a known future effective date. These laws may change, possibly with retroactive effect.
        For purposes of this discussion, a "Swiss holder" is any beneficial owner of shares that for Swiss federal income tax purposes is:
 - 
an individual resident of Switzerland or otherwise subject to Swiss taxation under article 3 to 48 of the Federal Income Tax Act of 1990, as amended, or article 3 to 19 of the Federal Harmonization of Cantonal and Communal Income Tax Act of 1990, as amended;
 - 
a corporation or other entity taxable as a corporation organized under the laws of Switzerland under article 49 to 82 of the Federal Income Tax Act of 1990, as amended, or article 20 to 31 of the Federal Harmonization of Cantonal and Communal Income Tax Act of 1990, as amended; or
 - 
an estate or trust, the income of which is subject to Swiss income taxation regardless of its source.
        A "non-Swiss holder" of shares is a holder that is not a Swiss holder. For purposes of this summary, "holder" or "shareholder" means either a Swiss holder or a non-Swiss holder or both, as the context may require.
Consequences of the Swiss Continuation to Shareholders
        No Swiss tax is due for non-Swiss holders upon the Swiss Continuation. If Swiss holders are beneficial owners of shares, they are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the Swiss tax consequences to them of the Swiss Continuation.
        A Swiss resident individual Swiss holder can sell shares (before the increase of the par value and the Swiss Continuation takes place). A capital gain arising out of such a disposal of shares does generally not lead to income tax consequences for the selling Swiss resident individual Swiss holder, since such a capital gain is qualified as tax free capital gain. However, please consider that a realized loss also is disregarded for Swiss tax purposes. The only exception to the described tax treatment of capital gains for a Swiss resident individual relates to the case where the related shares form part of the business assets of a gainful activity. In such case the capital gain or loss fully impacts the taxable basis. See also "Swiss Capital Gains Tax upon Disposal of Shares" for non-Swiss holders.
Consequences of the Increase in Registered Share Capital for Shareholders
        In contemplation of and prior to the Swiss Continuation, by way of an increase in registered share capital, the aggregate amount of par value of Tyco Electronics (Bermuda) will be increased. Accordingly, the nominal share capital of each share will be higher after the increase in registered share capital than before. The newly created nominal share capital of each share will be subject to income tax on federal, cantonal and communal levels for a Swiss resident individual who holds the shares as a private asset. However, for cantonal and communal income tax purposes, some exceptions to this general taxation principle may apply depending on the canton of residence of the concerned Swiss individual. No Swiss income tax consequences should arise at federal, cantonal and communal
level for Swiss resident individuals who hold the shares as business assets as well as for corporate investors due to the applicable book value principle. Swiss shareholders should consult their tax advisor as to their specific tax effects.
Consequences of the Swiss Continuation to Tyco Electronics (Switzerland)
        Upon the effective date of the Swiss Continuation, Tyco Electronics (Switzerland) will be incorporated and resident in Switzerland and no longer incorporated in Bermuda. Under Swiss tax law as it applies to corporations, the Swiss Continuation is considered to be a tax neutral restructuring for us. Therefore, no Swiss income tax or withholding tax will be due from us as a result of the Swiss Continuation. The Swiss Continuation also is exempt from the Swiss issuance stamp tax provided that our registered share capital is not increased to an amount that exceeds 30% of the fair market value of our total assets.
Taxation of Tyco Electronics (Switzerland) Subsequent to the Swiss Continuation
Income Tax
        A Swiss resident company is subject to income tax at federal, cantonal and communal levels on its worldwide income. At the Swiss federal level, qualifying net dividend income and net capital gains on the sale of qualifying investments in subsidiaries are exempt from federal income tax. In addition, under current law and certain rulings/decisions obtained from the cantonal authorities, we will be exempt from cantonal and communal income tax. Provided at any given time in the future the complete income tax exemption at the cantonal and communal level should cease, we nonetheless expect dividends and capital gains from sales of investments in subsidiaries to be exempt from cantonal and communal income tax as in the case of the Swiss federal income tax.
Issuance Stamp Tax
        Swiss issuance stamp tax is a federal tax levied on the issuance of shares and increases in the equity of Swiss companies. The applicable tax rate is 1% of the fair market value of the assets contributed to equity. Exemptions are available in tax neutral restructuring transactions. As a result, any future issuance of shares by us may be subject to the issuance stamp tax unless the shares are issued in the context of a merger or other qualifying restructuring transaction.
        The issuance stamp tax is also levied on the issuance of certain debt instruments by Swiss companies. In such case, the rate would amount from 0.06% to 0.12% of nominal value per year of duration of the instrument (the rate depending on the instrument). No Swiss issuance stamp tax (at the rate described above) would be due on debt instruments issued by our non-Swiss subsidiaries, if we do not guarantee the debt instruments, or if such a guarantee is provided, the proceeds from the issuance by the non-Swiss subsidiary are not used for financing activities in Switzerland. Although we guarantee debt and credit facilities of our subsidiary Tyco Electronics Group S.A., none of the proceeds has been or is expected to be used for financing activities in Switzerland. Consequently, no issuance stamp tax should be due.
Swiss Withholding Tax on Certain Interest Payments
        A federal withholding tax is levied on the interest payments of certain debt instruments issued by Swiss companies. In such case, the rate would amount to 35% of the gross interest payment to the debtholders. No Swiss withholding tax would be due on interest payments on debt instruments issued by our non-Swiss subsidiaries, provided that we do not guarantee the debt instruments, or if such a guarantee is provided, the proceeds from the issuance by the non-Swiss subsidiary are not used for financing activities in Switzerland. Any such withholding tax may be fully or partially refundable to qualified debtholders either based on Swiss domestic tax law or based on existing double taxation
treaties. Although we intend to guarantee certain debt of our subsidiary Tyco Electronics Group S.A., none of the proceeds has been or is expected to be used for financing activities in Switzerland. Consequently, no Swiss withholding tax should be due with respect to such obligations. In the event of the imposition of any such withholding tax, we would be required under some of its debt obligations to gross up the interest payments to cover the tax.
Consequences to Shareholders Subsequent to the Swiss Continuation
        The tax consequences discussed below are not a complete analysis or listing of all the possible tax consequences that may be relevant to you. You should consult your own tax advisor in respect of the tax consequences related to receipt, ownership, purchase or sale or other disposition of Tyco Electronics (Switzerland) shares and the procedures for claiming a refund of withholding tax.
Swiss Income Tax on Dividends and Similar Distributions
        A non-Swiss holder will not be subject to Swiss income tax on dividend income and similar distributions in respect of our shares, unless the shares are attributable to a permanent establishment or a fixed place of business maintained in Switzerland by such non-Swiss holder. However, dividends and similar distributions are subject to Swiss withholding tax. See "Swiss Withholding TaxDistributions to Shareholders."
Swiss Capital Gains Tax upon Disposal of Shares
        A non-Swiss holder will not be subject to Swiss income tax for capital gains recognized upon a disposition of our shares unless the shares are attributable to a permanent establishment or a fixed place of business maintained in Switzerland by such non-Swiss holder. In such case, the non-Swiss holder is required to recognize capital gains or losses on the sale of such shares, which will be subject to cantonal, communal and federal income tax.
Swiss Withholding TaxDistributions to Shareholders
        A Swiss withholding tax of 35% is due on dividends and similar distributions to our shareholders, regardless of the place of residency of the shareholder (subject to the exceptions discussed under "Exemption from Swiss Withholding TaxDistributions to Shareholders"). We will be required to withhold at such rate and remit on a net basis any payments made to a holder of our shares and pay such withheld amounts to the Swiss federal tax authorities. See "Refund of Swiss Withholding Tax on Dividends and Other Distributions."
Exemption from Swiss Withholding TaxDistributions to Shareholders
        Under current Swiss tax law, distributions to shareholders in relation to a reduction of registered share capital are exempt from Swiss withholding tax. Beginning on January 1, 2011, subject to the adoption of implementing regulations and amendments to Swiss corporate law, distributions to shareholders out of contributed surplus (as determined for Swiss tax purposes) will be exempt from the Swiss withholding tax. As described in "Proposal No. 3Approval of an Increase in Our Registered Share Capital," upon completion of the Swiss Continuation, we expect to have a registered share capital and contributed surplus (as determined for Swiss tax purposes), such that the combination of the two should approximate US$ 10.4 billion.
        Consequently, we expect that a substantial amount of any potential future distributions may be exempt from Swiss withholding tax. For a description of how contributed surplus can be distributed under the Swiss Code, as in effect as of the date of this proxy statement/prospectus, see "Description of Our Share Capital After the Swiss ContinuationDividends and Distributions."
Repurchases of Shares
        Under current Swiss tax law, repurchases by us of our shares for the purposes of capital reduction are treated as a partial liquidation subject to the 35% Swiss withholding tax. However, for shares repurchased for capital reduction, the portion of the repurchase price attributable to the par value of the shares repurchased will not be subject to the Swiss withholding tax. Beginning on January 1, 2011, subject to the adoption of implementing regulations and amendments to Swiss tax law, the portion of the repurchase price attributable to the contributed surplus (as determined for Swiss tax purposes) of the shares repurchased will also not be subject to the Swiss withholding tax. We would be required to withhold at such rate the tax from the difference between the repurchase price and the related amount of par value and, beginning on January 1, 2011, subject to the adoption of implementing regulations and amendments to Swiss tax law, the related amount of contributed surplus (as determined for Swiss tax purposes). We would be required to remit on a net basis the purchase price with the Swiss withholding tax deducted to a holder of our shares and pay the withholding tax to the Swiss federal tax authorities.
        With respect to the refund of Swiss withholding tax from the repurchase of shares, see "Refund of Swiss Withholding Tax on Dividends and Other Distributions."
        In most instances, Swiss companies listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange, or SIX, carry out share repurchase programs through a "second trading line" on the SIX. Swiss institutional investors typically sell the shares on the second trading line back to the corporation. The Swiss institutional investors are generally able to receive a full refund of the withholding tax. Due to, among other things, the time delay between the sale to the corporation and the institutional investors' receipt of the refund, the price companies pay to repurchase their shares has historically been slightly higher (but less than 1.0%) than the price of such companies' shares in ordinary trading on the SIX first trading line.
        We do not expect to be able to use the SIX second trading line process to repurchase our shares because we do not intend to list our shares on the SIX. We do, however, intend to follow an alternative process whereby we expect to be able to repurchase our shares in a manner that should allow qualified Swiss banks selling the shares to us to receive a refund of the Swiss withholding tax and, therefore, accomplish the same purpose as share repurchases on the second trading line at substantially the same cost to us and such market participants as share repurchases on a second trading line.
        The repurchase of shares for purposes other than capital reduction, such as to retain as treasury shares for use in connection with stock incentive plans, convertible debt or other instruments within certain periods, will generally not be subject to Swiss withholding tax. However, see "Comparison of Shareholder Rights Before and After the Swiss Continuation" for a discussion on the limitations on the amount of repurchased shares that can be held as treasury shares.
Refund of Swiss Withholding Tax on Dividends and Other Distributions
        Swiss Holders.
    A Swiss tax resident, corporate or individual, can recover the withholding tax in full if such resident is the beneficial owner of the shares at the time the dividend or other distribution becomes due and provided that such resident reports the gross distribution received on such resident's income tax return, or in the case of an entity, includes the taxable income in such resident's income statement.
        Non-Swiss Holders.
    A non-Swiss holder that receives a distribution and does not hold the shares in connection with a permanent establishment or a fixed place of business maintained in Switzerland, and resides in a country that has concluded a treaty for the avoidance of double taxation with Switzerland for which the conditions for the application and protection of and by the treaty are met, then the shareholder may be entitled to a full or partial refund of the withholding tax described above.
You should note that the procedures for claiming treaty refunds (and the time frame required for obtaining a refund) may differ from country to country.
        Switzerland has entered into bilateral treaties for the avoidance of double taxation with respect to income taxes with numerous countries, including the United States, whereby under certain circumstances all or part of the withholding tax may be refunded.
        U.S. Residents.
    The U.S.-Swiss Treaty provides that U.S. residents eligible for benefits under the treaty can seek a refund of the Swiss withholding tax on dividends for the portion of that withholding tax exceeding 15% (leading to a refund of 20%) or 100% of the amount of Swiss withholding tax paid in the case of a shareholder that is a qualified pension fund. Please refer to the discussion under "U.S. Federal Income Tax ConsiderationsU.S. HoldersTaxation of Distributions on the Shares" for applicability of U.S. foreign tax credits for any net withholding tax paid.
        As a general rule, the refund will be granted under the U.S.-Swiss Treaty if the U.S. resident can show evidence of:
 - 
beneficial ownership;
 - 
U.S. residency; and
 - 
meeting the U.S.-Swiss Treaty's limitation on benefits requirements.
        The claim for refund must be filed with the Swiss federal tax authorities (Eigerstrasse 65, CH-3003 Berne, Switzerland) not later than December 31 of the third year following the year in which the dividend payments became due. The relevant Swiss tax form is Form 82C for companies, 82E for other entities, and 82I for individuals. These forms can be obtained from any Swiss Consulate General in the United States or from the Swiss federal tax authorities at the address mentioned above. Each form needs to be filled out in triplicate, with each copy duly completed and signed before a notary public in the United States. You must also include evidence that the withholding tax was withheld at the source.
        Stamp Duties in Relation to the Transfer of Shares.
    The purchase or sale of shares may be subject to Swiss federal stamp taxes on the transfer of securities irrespective of the place of residency of the purchaser or seller if the transaction takes place through or with a Swiss bank or other Swiss securities dealer, as those terms are defined in the Swiss Federal Stamp Tax Act and no exemption applies in the specific case.
        We expect to qualify as a securities dealer as defined in the Swiss Federal Stamp Tax Act because we will report in our balance sheet taxable securities as defined in the Swiss Federal Stamp Tax Act, namely investments, at an amount exceeding 10 million Swiss francs. As a result, we will be required to register as a securities dealer with the Federal Tax Administration before the liability for the tax commences. The liability for the tax commences six months after the closing of our first fiscal year as a Swiss entity.
        If a purchase or sale is not entered into through or with a Swiss bank or other Swiss securities dealer, then no stamp tax will be due. The applicable stamp tax rate is 0.075% for each of the two parties to a transaction and is calculated based on the purchase price or sale proceeds. If the transaction does not involve cash consideration, the transfer stamp duty is computed on the basis of the market value of the consideration.
Bermuda Tax Considerations
        Neither the Swiss Continuation nor the increase in registered share capital will result in any income tax consequences under Bermuda law to Tyco Electronics (Bermuda), Tyco Electronics (Switzerland), or to our respective shareholders.
QuickLinks
EXHIBIT 99.2
Sections of Form S-4/A Filed by Tyco Electronics Ltd. on May 1, 2009 Entitled "Description of Our Share Capital After the Swiss Continuation," "Comparison of Shareholder Rights Before and After the Swiss Continuation," "Effects of the Swiss Continuation" and "Material Tax Considerations"
DESCRIPTION OF OUR SHARE CAPITAL AFTER THE SWISS CONTINUATION
COMPARISON OF SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS BEFORE AND AFTER THE SWISS CONTINUATION
EFFECTS OF THE SWISS CONTINUATION
MATERIAL TAX CONSIDERATIONS


