FILE:TEL/TEL-8K-20101209172322.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01
                                 
OTHER EVENTS
 
On July 12, 2010, Tyco Electronics Ltd., a Swiss corporation (the "Company"), and the Company's indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Tyco Electronics Minnesota, Inc., a Minnesota corporation (the "Purchaser"), entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, as amended on July 24, 2010 (the "Merger Agreement"), with ADC Telecommunications, Inc., a Minnesota corporation ("ADC"). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, the Purchaser commenced a tender offer (the "Offer") to purchase all of the issued and outstanding shares of ADC common stock at a purchase price of $12.75 per share in cash (the "Consideration") to be followed by a merger of the Purchaser with and into ADC.
 
On December 9, 2010, the Company announced the completion of the Offer. The offering period for the Offer expired at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on Wednesday, December 8, 2010. According to BNY Mellon Services, the depositary for the Offer, as of that time, approximately 84,333,859 common shares of ADC (excluding approximately 4,794,355 common shares of ADC to be delivered within the next three NASDAQ trading days pursuant to the Notice of Guaranteed Delivery) had been validly tendered and not withdrawn pursuant to the Offer, representing approximately 86.80% of the outstanding common shares of ADC. Purchaser has accepted for payment all shares of ADC common stock that were validly tendered and not withdrawn, and payment for such shares will be made in accordance with the terms of the Offer. A copy of the press release announcing the completion and results of the Offer is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
On December 9, 2010, pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, Purchaser exercised its top-up option to purchase directly from ADC an additional number of ADC common shares that, when combined with the shares Purchaser purchased in the Offer, were sufficient to give Purchaser ownership of more than 90% of the then outstanding ADC common shares. Pursuant to the exercise of this top-up option, Purchaser purchased directly from ADC a total of 54,555,863 newly issued ADC common shares (the "Top-Up Shares") at a price of $12.75 per share. Following the purchase of the Top-Up Shares, on December 9, 2010, Purchaser effected a short-form merger (the "Merger") of Purchaser with and into ADC under Minnesota law, without the need for a meeting of ADC's shareholders, with ADC surviving as an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent. At the effective time of the Merger, each issued and outstanding share of ADC common stock that was not tendered pursuant to the Offer (other than shares of ADC common stock in respect of which dissenters' rights were validly exercised and any shares of ADC common stock owned by the Company, ADC or any direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of ADC or the Company (including Purchaser)) was converted automatically into the right to receive the Consideration. On December 9, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing that it had completed its acquisition of ADC, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The aggregate consideration in the Offer and the Merger for all of the outstanding shares of common stock of ADC is approximately $1.26 billion, not including the payment for the Top-Up Shares.
 
ITEM 9.01
                                 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
SCHAFFHAUSEN, Switzerland, Dec. 9, 2010  Tyco Electronics Ltd. (NYSE: TEL) announced today the successful completion of its tender offer through its subsidiary, Tyco Electronics Minnesota, Inc., to purchase the outstanding shares of common stock of ADC Telecommunications, Inc. (NASDAQ: ADCT).  The tender offer expired at 5:00 p.m., New York City time on Wednesday, Dec. 8, 2010, and was not extended.
 
The depositary for the tender offer has advised Tyco Electronics that, as of the expiration of the offering period, a total of approximately 84,333,859 common shares of ADC were validly tendered and not withdrawn (not including approximately 4,794,355 shares subject to guaranteed delivery procedures), representing 86.80% of the outstanding ADC common shares.  All shares that were validly tendered and not withdrawn during the initial offering period have been accepted for payment.
 
Tyco Electronics Minnesota will be exercising its option under the merger agreement to purchase newly issued shares from ADC at the tender offer price.  Tyco Electronics intends to complete the acquisition process by effecting a short-form merger pursuant to Minnesota law without a vote or meeting of ADC's remaining stockholders.  The merger is expected to be consummated later today.
 
Following the merger, ADC will become an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Tyco Electronics, and each share of ADC's outstanding common stock (other than shares owned by Tyco Electronics or any direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Tyco Electronics or ADC) will be cancelled and converted into the right to receive the same consideration, without interest, received by holders who tendered in the tender offer, subject to the proper exercise of dissenters' rights.  Thereafter, ADC common stock will cease to be traded on
 
the NASDAQ.
 
ABOUT TYCO ELECTRONICS (TE)
 
Tyco Electronics Ltd. is a global technology company with fiscal 2010 sales of US$12.1 billion to customers in more than 150 countries. We design, manufacture and market products for customers in a broad array of industries including automotive; data communication systems; consumer electronics; telecommunications; aerospace, defense and marine; medical; energy; and lighting. With approximately 7,000 engineers and worldwide manufacturing, sales and customer service capabilities, we are a recognized leader in many of the industries we serve. More information on TE can be found at www.te.com.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainty and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results, performance, financial condition or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance, financial condition or achievements. All statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "plan," and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. The company has no intention and is under no obligation to update or alter (and expressly disclaims any such intention or obligation to do so) its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent required by law. The forward-looking statements in this release include statements addressing our acquisition of ADC. Examples of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements include, among others, business, economic, competitive and regulatory risks, such as developments in the credit markets; conditions affecting demand for products, particularly the automotive industry and the telecommunications, computer and consumer electronics industries; future goodwill impairment; competition and pricing pressure; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices; political, economic and military instability in countries in which we operate; compliance with current and future environmental and other laws and regulations; the possible effects on us of changes in tax laws, tax treaties and other legislation; the risk that the ADC merger may not be consummated; the risk that ADC will not be integrated successfully into Tyco Electronics; and the risk that revenue opportunities, cost savings and other anticipated synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected. More detailed information about these and other factors is set forth in Tyco Electronics' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Sept. 24, 2010, as well as in Tyco Electronics' Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and other reports filed by Tyco Electronics with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
SCHAFFHAUSEN, Switzerland, Dec. 9, 2010  Tyco Electronics Ltd. (NYSE: TEL) today announced the completion of the acquisition of ADC Telecommunications, Inc. (Nasdaq: ADCT). The combination of Tyco Electronics (TE) and ADC positions the company as a world leader in broadband connectivity.
 
Tom Lynch, Chief Executive Officer of TE, said, "With our expanded product offering and strong position in every major geographic region, TE will provide the broad range of products and solutions our customers need to keep pace with the rapidly increasing demand for video and data connectivity anytime and anywhere."
 
TE announced earlier today the successful completion of its tender offer to purchase the outstanding shares of common stock of ADC, which expired on Wednesday, Dec. 8, 2010.  TE then consummated the short-form merger, and ADC became an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of TE.
 
TE will provide updated guidance on its fiscal first quarter earnings call in January.
 
ABOUT TYCO ELECTRONICS (TE)
 
Tyco Electronics Ltd. is a global technology company with fiscal 2010 sales of US$12.1 billion to customers in more than 150 countries. We design, manufacture and market products for customers in a broad array of industries including automotive; data communication systems; consumer electronics; telecommunications; aerospace, defense and marine; medical; energy; and lighting. With approximately 7,000 engineers and worldwide manufacturing, sales and customer service capabilities, we are a recognized leader in many of the industries we serve. More information on TE can be found at www.te.com.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainty and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results, performance, financial condition or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance, financial condition or achievements. All statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "plan," and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. The company has no intention and is under no obligation to update or alter (and expressly disclaims any such intention or obligation to do so) its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent required by law. The forward-looking statements in this release include statements addressing our acquisition of ADC. Examples of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements include, among others, business, economic, competitive and regulatory risks, such as developments in the credit markets; conditions affecting demand for products, particularly the automotive industry and the telecommunications, computer and consumer electronics industries; future goodwill impairment; competition and pricing pressure; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices; political, economic and military instability in countries in which we operate; compliance with current and future environmental and other laws and regulations; the possible effects on us of changes in tax laws, tax treaties and other legislation;
the risk that ADC will not be integrated successfully into Tyco Electronics; and the risk that revenue opportunities, cost savings and other anticipated synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected. More detailed information about these and other factors is set forth in Tyco Electronics' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Sept. 24, 2010, as well as in Tyco Electronics' Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and other reports filed by Tyco Electronics with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 


