FILE:TEL/TEL-8K-20101129162717.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
        
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
        
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
        
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
        
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
            
 
The information disclosed in Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is furnished and incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02.  The financial information referred to therein is furnished as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2, and 99.3 to this report and incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02.
 
ITEM 7.01
REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
            
 
Effective for the first quarter of fiscal 2011, Tyco Electronics Ltd. (the "Company") reorganized its segments to further align the organization around the Company's strategy. The businesses in the Specialty Products Group  Aerospace, Defense, and Marine; Medical Products; Circuit Protection; and Touch Systems  have been moved into other segments. Also, the Subsea Communications segment has been included within the Network Solutions segment. The following represents the new segment structure:
 
This segment consists of the Company's Automotive and Aerospace, Defense, and Marine businesses.
    
Transportation Connectivity. 
 
This segment contains the Company's DataComm, Industrial Products, Consumer Devices, Lighting, Alternative Energy, Medical Products, Circuit Protection, and Touch Systems businesses.
    
Communications and Industrial Solutions.
 
 The Subsea Communications, Telecom Service Providers, Enterprise Networks, and Energy businesses are included in this segment.  Also, when the Company completes the anticipated acquisition of ADC Telecommunications, Inc., it expects to integrate this business into the Network Solutions segment.
    
Network Solutions.
 
The Company has reclassified prior period segment results to reflect this new segment reporting structure.
 
The unaudited financial information furnished with this report and incorporated by reference includes the consolidated segment results, consolidated net sales by industry end market, and consolidated adjusted operating income (loss) by segment of the Company for the fiscal quarters ended September 24, 2010, June 25, 2010, March 26, 2010, December 25, 2009, September 25, 2009, June 26, 2009, March 27, 2009, and December 26, 2008, and for the fiscal years ended September 24, 2010, September 25, 2009, and September 26, 2008, along with the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures for adjusted operating income (loss) by segment.
 
Non-GAAP Measure
 
special items including charges or income related to legal settlements and reserves, restructuring and other charges, impairment charges, acquisition and integration costs, and other income or charges ("Adjusted Operating Income").  The Company utilizes Adjusted Operating Income to assess segment level core operating performance and to provide insight to management in evaluating segment operating plan execution and underlying market conditions.  It is also a significant component in the Company's incentive compensation plans. Adjusted Operating Income is a useful measure for investors because it better reflects the Company's underlying operating results, trends and the comparability of these results between periods.  The difference between Adjusted Operating Income and operating income (loss) (the most comparable GAAP measure) consists of the impact of charges or income related to legal settlements and reserves, restructuring and other charges, impairment charges, acquisition and integration costs, and other income or charges that may mask the underlying operating results and/or business trends.  The limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or decrease the Company's reported operating income (loss). This limitation is best addressed by using Adjusted Operating Income in combination with operating income (loss) (the most comparable GAAP measure) in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease on reported results.
The Company has presented its operating income (loss) before
 
Forward-Looking Statement
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K includes a forward-looking statement relating to the Company's anticipated acquisition of ADC Telecommunications, Inc. ("ADC") that is based on management's current beliefs, assumptions, and available information. Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements and the Company has no intention of updating such statements. The Company discloses risks involved with its proposed acquisition of ADC in the "Risk Factors" section of its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 24, 2010 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the risks that the ADC transaction may not be consummated and that ADC may not be successfully integrated into the Company.
 
ITEM 9.01
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
            
 
Exhibits
(d)
          
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1

Exhibit 99.2

Exhibit 99.3
 
(1) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this Form 8-K.
 
(1) Consists of $7 million of income related to pre-separation securities litigation.
(2) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this Form 8-K.
 
(1) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this Form 8-K.
 
(1) Includes $66 million recorded in net restructuring and other charges and a $3 million credit recorded in cost of sales.
(2) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this Form 8-K.
 
(1) Includes $46 million recorded in net restructuring and other charges and a $1 million credit recorded in cost of sales.
(2) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this Form 8-K.
 
(1) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this Form 8-K.
 
(1) Includes $189 million recorded in net restructuring and other charges and a $2 million credit recorded in cost of sales.
(2) Consists of $135 million of charges related to the settlement of pre-separation securities litigation.
(3) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this Form 8-K.
 
(1) Includes $77 million recorded in net restructuring and other charges and $1 million recorded in cost of sales.
(2) Consists of $9 million of charges related to the settlement of pre-separation securities litigation and $8 million of costs related to a product liability matter from several years ago recorded in selling, general, and administrative expenses.
(3) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this Form 8-K.
(1) Includes $137 million recorded in net restructuring and other charges and a $3 million credit recorded in cost of sales.
(2) Consists of $8 million of acquisition and integration costs and $7 million of income related to pre-separation securities litigation.
(3) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this Form 8-K.
(1) Includes $375 million recorded in net restructuring and other charges and a $2 million credit recorded in cost of sales.
(2) Consists of $144 million of charges related to the settlement of pre-separation securities litigation and $8 million of costs related to a product liability matter from several years ago recorded in selling, general, and administrative expenses.
(3) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this Form 8-K.
 
(1) Includes $219 million recorded in net restructuring and other charges and $9 million recorded in cost of sales.
(2) Consists of a $36 million gain on the sale of real estate and $8 million of costs related to a customs settlement, both of which are recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses, and $22 million of net charges related to the settlement of pre-separation securities litigation.
(3) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this Form 8-K.


